DRN-3184268
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment*
131/05/2017 08/02/2018 33 £300.00 £15.00
208/02/2018 13/08/2018 33 £300.00 £15.00
313/08/2018 19/02/2019 33 £300.00 £15.00
419/02/2019 22/10/2019 33 £300.00 £15.00
One of our adjudicators thought that Morses ought to have ceased lending at loan 4. 
Morses disagreed and the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. Our adjudicator considered this 
to be the case for Mr H. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Borrowing consecutively for many months and without any breaks highlights the fact that 
Mr H was likely to be having trouble making ends meet. Morses was alert from its own 
research about Mr H that he had experienced a poor financial situation in the past (historic 
defaults and a County Court Judgment). 
I think that by loan 4 Morses ought to have realised that he was filling a hole left by the 
repayments for the earlier loans. And the repetitive nature of the lending was otherwise 
unsustainable. I say this because he had been indebted to Morses for almost two years. This 
was a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit in itself. But at loan 4 Mr H was 
making a commitment to make repayments for a further 33 weeks.
I think that Mr H lost out because Morses provided loan 4:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H at loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr H loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr H the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loan 4 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove loan 4 entirely from Mr Hs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman