DRN-2140441
The complaint
Miss B says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her. Miss B says the lending was 
unaffordable for her and MYJAR would have known this if it had checked her financial 
circumstances. She says MYJAR didnt ask for any proof of her income and that she had a 
poor credit history. Her financial situation has worsened as a result of the lending.
 
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans MYJAR provided to Miss B between April and 
September 2018. Miss Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 12/04/2018 28/09/2018 6 £675 £200.84
2 28/09/2018 Outstanding 6 £550 £162.45
My understanding is that at the time of Miss B making her complaint to MYJAR, loan two is 
outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. They thought there was nothing in the 
information that MYJAR had obtained about Miss B to show that the lending was 
unaffordable for her or unsustainable. Also, there was nothing in that information that should 
have caused MYJAR to carry out more proportionate checks than it already had. 
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicator. She said her income was much lower than that 
recorded by MYJAR and she was in a desperate financial situation. She took loan two to 
repay loan one. She also said she had similar complaints about irresponsible lending upheld.
This didnt cause the adjudicator to change their opinion as there was nothing in the 
information that Mrs B had provided to MYJAR at the time of the borrowing that should have 
prompted MYJAR to carry out further checks into her circumstances. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. I know Miss B will be extremely disappointed, but Id like to 
explain why. 
Miss B has said she has made similar complaints about irresponsible lending to other short-
term credit providers and those complaints have been upheld. This service considers each 
case on its own particular merits and circumstances. So, while Ive noted what Miss B has 
said, Ive not taken into account any other complaint Miss B may have had when considering 
this particular complaint. 
MYJAR has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. On the 
application forms it asked Miss B about her employment status and she confirmed she was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,600 for loan one and £3,000 for loan two. MYJAR 
also asked about Miss Bs normal monthly living costs. Miss Bs monthly costs for both loans 
were recorded as being £400.                     
MYJAR says it obtained information from the loan applications, credit reference agencies 
and public databases. It also carried out fraud checks and used its own credit scoring 
system before agreeing to lend to Miss B. It says it cross-referenced and validated what it 
received from these sources together with the information Miss B provided. I think it was reasonable for MYJAR to have relied upon this information bearing in mind the loans were at 
the early stage in the lending relationship. And Miss Bs stated monthly commitments werent 
onerous. So, in these circumstances it wasnt unreasonable of MYJAR to lend to her. The 
lending looked affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
Its possible that Miss Bs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or the information MYJAR obtained as a result of its own checks. 
And Miss B has told us her income was a lot lower than the amounts she declared. Her 
financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such as bank 
statements or more in-depth credit checks as examples  had been obtained. And Miss B 
has sent us copies of her pay slips which do show a lower income than she recorded when 
applying for the loans. 
But as Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And MYJAR could only make a decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. In these circumstances  at the 
beginning of a lending relationship  I dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. This could have included asking Miss B for evidence of her 
income and outgoings which MYJAR could have gathered from documents such as bank 
statements, copies of payslips or bills as examples.  
I have considered the information MYJAR was provided with when it carried out its checks. 
And there isnt anything in the information it has given us that may have led MYJAR to 
conclude that it should decline Miss Bs applications for the borrowing. And there isnt 
anything to have given MYJAR cause for concern  bearing in mind these loans were at the 
beginning of the lending relationship  to have prompted it to ask for more information from 
Miss B.
In these circumstances, I think the assessments MYJAR carried out for these loans was 
proportionate. I dont think MYJAR was wrong to have provided the loans, based solely on 
the information it gathered from its checks and the information Miss B gave about her 
financial situation. I dont think MYJARs decision to lend to Miss B was unreasonable. 
Its clear from Miss Bs testimony that she has struggled financially repaying these loans and 
I am very sorry to hear that. But I hope I have been able to explain to her why I have 
reached the decision that I have. And I would remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat Mrs B 
fairly in seeking repayment of any outstanding balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman