DRN-3741410
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way  that Snap Finance LTD (Snap) handled direct debit 
payments on a fixed sum loan agreement. He would like more compensation than Snap has 
offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Snap accepted it was their fault the first direct debit payment failed. It reset the 
payment date and added the arrears from the first payment not having been made to 
the end of the loan term removing any additional interest that would normally be 
created with a loan extension. I think this was a reasonable step to take
Regarding problems with another direct debit payment, as that payment didnt go 
through  Snap took payment from the direct debit card used to pay the initial deposit. 
I can understand Mr H not being happy since that direct debit card was his mothers. 
But I have seen the welcome  letter Snap sent Mr H which confirms the direct debit 
details but also states that if a direct debit is unsuccessful it will attempt payment 
using the debit card details provided. So as Snap had details for the card used for the 
deposit I dont think it was unreasonable to use this.
In addition to the action Snap has already taken regarding the first direct debit 
payment as detailed above it has offered to remove any adverse data from  Mr Hs 
credit file. I think that is only reasonable as it seems the first missed payment was 
due to Snap inputting the wrong payment date on its system. I appreciate Mr H 
doesnt feel that is any benefit to him, but I dont agree as negative data can have 
consequences for future credit applications so its only right Snap corrects this.
Snap has also offered credit Mr Hs account with £100 as an apology for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. I appreciate Mr H doesnt feel this is sufficient but I dont 
agree. He has told us he has lost out as he had to pay his mother back for the 
payment taken from her card. But the payment taken from his mothers card was his 
regular monthly payment owing on the loan. In effect he paid his mother rather than 
Snap so I cant see that he has lost out financially as a result. I think the £100 
offered, which will reduce the overall amount Mr H owes.  is reasonable for the 
distress and inconvenience of the mistake with the first direct debit payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I think Snap Finance Ltd has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement  Snap Finance Ltd should:-
If it has not already done so, add the arrears accrued to the end of the loan 
agreement , with no additional interest added due to this loan extension
Remove any negative data from Mr Hs credit file arising from the missed direct debit 
payment.
Credit Mr Hs account with £100
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman