DRN-3726666
The complaint
Miss S complains, on behalf of O Ltd, that Barclays Bank UK PLC loaded a negative fraud 
marker against O Ltd. And shed like this removed. 
What happened
Miss S is the sole director of a limited company Ill call O. 
In August 2020 O opened an account with Barclays. Soon after Miss S applied for a 
business banking loan on behalf of O. As part of their due diligence checks Barclays asked 
O for evidence of trading prior to March 2020. 
Miss S provided a copy of an invoice from December 2019 showing a payment O was due to 
receive. The invoice included payment details for Os business account, however Barclays 
identified that this account hadnt been opened at the time. 
Barclays rejected the application, closed Miss Ss account and loaded a fraud marker 
against O for inconsistency. 
A short time after Os account was closed Miss S discovered the fraud marker  and 
complained to Barclays. Barclays reviewed her complaint but didnt uphold it. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint. They asked Miss S further questions 
about the invoice. Miss S explained that although the payment came into her personal 
account because it was for business purposes her accountant advised her to put the 
business account details on the invoice. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ss explanation, but thought that Barclays had sufficient 
evidence to load the marker. And therefore theyd acted fairly. 
Miss S didnt agree. In response she explained she hadnt acted fraudulently and there was 
an innocent explanation for the discrepancy. 
As Miss S didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays have filed is intended to record that theres been an inconsistency 
in information provided. 
The relevant guidance specifies that the inconsistency must be clearly identifiable and 
evidence available to support the loading. 
Ive looked at the evidence supplied by both O and Barclays. Including the invoice supplied 
by O. Having done so I can see the invoice shows the funds were due to be paid to Os 
business account with Barclays. However, at the time of the invoice, December 2019, Os 
business account hadnt been opened. Therefore Im satisfied the invoice isnt accurate.   
Ive considered Miss Ss explanation for the discrepancy in the invoice provided  shes 
advised that in December 2019 she was using her personal account to receive funds for O. 
But because the funds received in December 2019 were for business purposes she was 
advised by her accountant to put Os business account on the paperwork. However, Miss S 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence of contact with her accountant where she was 
advised to do this. Therefore, Im unable to conclude this is the most likely explanation.  
Even if I did accept Miss Ss explanation, my role is to consider if Barclays acted fairly in 
loading an inconsistency marker against O. I understand Miss S feels that she wasnt 
dishonest when providing the invoice  and therefore the marker shouldnt have been 
loaded. But to meet the criteria to load the marker, Barclays only need to evidence that there 
was inconsistency in the documents provided. And Im satisfied theyve sufficient evidence to 
meet this standard when considering the bank account recorded wasnt open on the date of 
the invoice. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman