DRN-3873805
The complaint
Mr P has complained that NRAM Limited took possession of six properties mortgaged to 
NRAM that had been jointly owned by Mr P and his ex-wife, Mrs P. He says that the 
properties were surrendered to NRAM by Mrs P without his knowledge or consent. Mr P 
wants NRAM to be held accountable for its actions. 
The mortgages were originally taken out with Northern Rock. After the collapse of Northern 
Rock in 2008 the mortgages were transferred to UK Asset Recovery and are now with 
NRAM. For ease of reference and clarity I will refer to NRAM throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr P being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Ive noted Mr Ps account of the events leading up to the complaint, including his comments 
about NRAMs dealings with Mrs P. But Mrs P isnt a party to this complaint, and so I dont 
have her consent to access any of her personal data, including any dealings she may have 
had with NRAM. Any reference to Mrs P will be by way of background only.
Briefly, what happened is as follows. Mr and Mrs P had six buy-to-let mortgages with NRAM. 
The mortgages fell into arrears. In 2018  after Mr and Mrs P had separated  Mrs P 
contacted NRAM because she wanted to surrender the properties. A form was completed by 
Mrs P but because this wasnt signed by Mr P, NRAM couldnt accept a voluntary surrender 
of the properties.
In 2018 NRAM had been trying to contact Mr P by leaving voicemails on three telephone 
numbers it held, writing to his last known residential address and to an address where his 
business was registered. NRAM wasnt able to contact Mr P. 
On 20 June 2018, because NRAM couldnt accept a voluntary surrender on one signature 
only, it appointed Law of Property Act Receivers (LPARs) to take over the properties. These 
were later handed back to NRAM, which sold the properties, leaving a shortfall debt on the 
mortgage accounts.
NRAM explained to Mr P in a final response letter dated 2 October 2018 why it had 
appointed LPARs. In March 2022 Mr P raised the matter again, but regrettably NRAM didnt 
treat his concerns as a complaint. Instead, NRAM simply told Mr P that there was 
approximately £230,000 outstanding across all six mortgage accounts. NRAM also 
confirmed that it had noted on its system that Mr P was vulnerable. 
It wasnt until 14 June 2022 that NRAM provided its final response to the complaint, after 
Mr P had repeatedly asked the bank to address his concerns. NRAM confirmed what it had 
told Mr P in 2018  that the properties hadnt been handed back voluntarily, but that LPARs 
had been appointed in 2018. The LPARs later handed back the properties to NRAM, which 
were marketed and sold.
NRAM confirmed Mr P could refer his complaint to our service, which Mr P did on 
18 July 2022. An investigator looked at what had happened. He was satisfied the properties 
hadnt been voluntarily surrendered and explained this to Mr P. However, the investigator 
asked NRAM to pay Mr P £75 for its poor customer service in not responding to the 
complaint, which NRAM agreed to do.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mr P has reiterated all his concerns about NRAM, and all the reasons why he 
believes the properties were voluntarily surrendered by Mrs P, rather than handed over to 
LPARs. Mr P also didnt accept the £75 compensation for poor complaint-handling. Mr P is 
also very unhappy about the Financial Ombudsman Service and has expressed his lack of 
confidence in our ability to resolve the complaint to his satisfaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Ive looked at what happened in 2018. From this Im satisfied that NRAM wasnt able to take 
voluntary possession of the properties in 2018 because it didnt have Mr Ps signature on the 
surrender form. NRAM made attempts to contact Mr P, without success. There was no 
marital dispute marker on the account, so Im not persuaded NRAM could reasonably have 
known that Mr P wasnt living at the address it had on file for him; Mr P hadnt updated 
NRAM with any other address. But NRAM made reasonable attempts to contact Mr P via a 
business address and by leaving voicemails on three telephone numbers it held for him, 
before appointing LPARs.
NRAM was entitled to appoint LPARs in accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions 
where, as in this case, there is a breach of the mortgage contract. Mr (or Mrs) Ps consent 
isnt needed for NRAM to appoint LPARs.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that NRAM acted incorrectly in relation to its 
appointment of LPARs. NRAM (correctly, and consistent with what Mr P has argued) could 
not (and did not) accept a voluntary surrender of the properties on Mrs Ps signature alone. 
NRAM took appropriate steps to try to contact Mr P (detailed above) before appointing 
LPARs. Im therefore satisfied that NRAMs actions were appropriate, fair and reasonable.NRAM should have treated Mr Ps correspondence in March 2022 as a complaint and 
responded accordingly. The investigator asked NRAM to pay Mr P £75 compensation for the 
way it dealt with Mr Ps complaint. However, because complaint-handling isnt a regulated 
activity, I dont have any power to award compensation for this. I simply leave it to Mr P to 
decide if he wants to accept the £75 in full and final settlement of his complaint.
I can see from his submissions the intensity with which Mr P has brought the complaint. He 
sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything NRAM has done (or not done). Thats a 
natural, subjective reaction and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation 
as Mr P has been here. 
But I have a different remit; I have to be objective and impartial, and decide the case on the 
basis of all the evidence, not just the evidence which Mr P believes supports his case. As set 
out above, the totality of the evidence is persuasive that NRAM didnt accept a voluntary 
surrender of the property on Mrs Ps signature alone. I know this isnt what Mr P wants to 
hear, as I know he is steadfast in his belief that NRAM has done something wrong. I am 
sorry if my decision adds to his distress.
If Mr P doesnt accept this decision he is, of course, free to pursue his grievances against 
NRAM in court; I note Mr P has suggested he will do this in his correspondence with NRAM. 
I would suggest Mr P takes advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr P to decide if he 
wants to accept the £75 offered by NRAM Limited for the way it dealt with Mr Ps complaint 
in full and final settlement. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman