DRN-1932256
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how Acromas Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim under his 
breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had breakdown cover. This included add-on policies  Stay Mobile and Parts and 
Garage  which were underwritten by Acromas. In January 2020 Mr Ks car broke down and 
the breakdown company couldnt fix it at the side of the road. A temporary repair took place 
and Mr K drove his car to a garage so a permanent repair could be done under the Parts 
and Garage policy. Acromas also provided Mr K with a hire car under the Stay Mobile policy.
The garage refused to repair the car because of further damage. Mr K has complained that 
Acromas have refused to accept liability for the additional damage, and that they refused to 
extend the car hire during this period.
Our investigator didnt think the garage were an agent of Acromas under the terms of the 
Parts and Garage policy. And he thought the policy was clear that Acromas wouldnt take 
any responsibility for the actions of the garage. And the policy didnt require Mr K to use a 
garage appointed by Acromas  he had a free choice of who repaired his car.
The investigator also said the Stay Mobile policy only entitled Mr K to 72-hours car hire 
following a breakdown, and he received this. So the investigator thought Acromas had acted 
fairly in the circumstances and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He felt that under the Insurance Conduct of Business 
(ICOB) rules set down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), where a car repair takes 
place at a garage chosen by the breakdown company, then the repair forms part of the 
insured event. So he feels Acromas are responsible for the additional damage to his car.
Mr K has clarified the additional damage was caused by his car being driven to the garage  
what started out as a water leak due to a failed hose ended up as a head gasket failure 
because the car was driven without any water in it.
Mr K has also said that, when he told Acromas he was bringing his complaint to us, they told 
him we always find in their favour. So he feels the outcome of his complaint was pre-
determined before it was even considered.
Mr K has since purchased another car and has had a breakdown caused by a flat tyre. Hes 
said that he was refused breakdown assistance for this event, which he believes is because 
hes made a complaint. Hes also said that, when he tried to cancel his policy, he was told it 
would be recorded as insurance being refused, which means that it would be difficult for 
him to get any insurance in future and any insurance would be more expensive. So hes 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, and while Mr Ks concerns about bias have already been responded to separately, Id 
like to clarify my role and how I make my decision. Im not here to support financial 
businesses, nor am I am consumer champion. My role is to independently review all of the 
comments and evidence provided to reach a fair and impartial outcome. Because of this, if I 
feel I need more information or evidence Ill ask for this. And if I disagree with the 
investigator, Ill give all parties the opportunity to comment before I make my decision final.
However, in this instance, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and 
for broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
Mr K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K had three policies sold to him as a single bundle. He had Roadside Assistance, 
provided by a breakdown company, and two add-ons  Parts and Garage and Stay Mobile  
underwritten by Acromas.
The Roadside Assistance policy isnt regulated by the FCA. This means that, while an 
insured event may have taken place under this policy, ICOB doesnt apply. Because of this, 
the terms of this policy, and the actions of the person who attended Mr Ks breakdown dont 
fall under my jurisdiction to consider. I can only consider the policies underwritten by 
Acromas, and anything they did, or shouldve done but didnt do.
In January 2020 Mr K asked the breakdown company to attend a breakdown. They did, and 
a temporary repair was completed because Mr Ks car had a water leak due to a failed hose. 
Mr K said he had Parts and Garage cover, and the breakdown agent told him hed need to 
take his car to a network garage for the cover to be in force. 
Mr K drove his car to the network garage because the breakdown agent wouldnt recover the 
car to the garage. In driving the car to the garage with a water leak, further damage was 
done to the engine of Mr Ks car. Because of this the garage wouldnt repair the car under 
the Parts and Garage policy. The cost of the repairs were more than the value of Mr Ks car, 
so he purchased another car instead.
The terms of the Parts and Garage cover say whenever possible well get your vehicle 
taken to one of our network of preferred garages for repair. Alternatively, if you prefer, we 
can get your vehicle to a professional repairer of your choice. I dont doubt that the 
breakdown company gave Mr K the impression that he had to use their network garage, as 
the terms imply this is their preference. And I wouldnt expect Mr K to have reviewed the 
terms of his policy before he went to the garage  its reasonable he relied upon what he 
was told at the time of the breakdown.
But, for the reasons already given, I cant consider the actions of the breakdown company. I 
can only consider what happened at the garage. And the regulated insured event is the 
repairs under the Parts and Garage policy, not the breakdown itself. So, because no repairs 
took place, there was no insured event. And theres nothing under ICOB that makes 
Acromas responsible for the actions of the breakdown company.Because a temporary repair took place at the roadside, the breakdown company considered 
Mr Ks car was safe to be driven to the garage, and recovery wasnt needed. But when Mr K 
got to the garage, the damage had got worse. And his car wasnt repaired as a result of this.
The terms of the Parts & Garage cover say the cost of repairing further damage if You 
continue to drive the Nominated Vehicle after a fault has developed isnt covered. They also 
say the fact that the {breakdown company} has dispatched a mobile mechanic or agent 
does not necessarily mean the repair will be covered by {the} Parts and Garage Cover: this 
will be assessed by the Claims Department and that any repairs must be authorised by the 
Parts and Garage Cover claim handler. 
So I cant say Acromas has done anything wrong by not authorising the repairs to Mr Ks car. 
Replacing the failed hose (the cause of the breakdown) wouldnt have fixed the car because 
of the additional damage caused after the breakdown had happened.
Because of the above, Mr K was left without a car for about a week. The terms of the Stay 
Mobile policy provided a hire car for up to 3 days. Acromas have explained that this is to 
enable a customer to continue their journey. Its not designed to provide a hire car for the 
length of time it takes for a car to be repaired (or for another car to be purchased).
Because Mr K was unhappy with whatd happened, he was prepared to accept a hire car for 
an additional week in resolution to his complaint. This wouldve given him access to 
transport while he bought another car. The terms of the policy mean it was reasonable for 
Acromas to refuse this extension. And they had no obligation to provide a hire car in 
resolution to a complaint, so I cant say they acted unreasonably by not doing so. 
For the reasons given, I dont think that Acromas did anything wrong, and I wont be asking 
them to take any further action to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K has also raised the issues of what happened in a separate breakdown, and when he 
tried to cancel his policy. While I appreciate his concerns, Im unable to comment on them in 
this decision. Our rules dont allow us to consider complaints unless the financial business 
has had the opportunity to respond to them first. So Mr K will need to raise these complaints 
with Acomas and, if he remains unhappy after hes received their response (or if no 
response is received), then he can bring his concerns to us for investigation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman