DRN-1904359
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Magnet Insurance Services Ltd sold him a home insurance 
policy.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr R made a claim under his home insurance policy because of damage to 
a boundary wall.
The claim was agreed by the underwriter of the policy, but the settlement amount was 
reduced. The underwriter said that Mr R had given an underestimated re-build cost for his 
property. Because of this they reduced the claim by the proportionate amount of the extra 
premium that would've been paid had the re-build amount been correct. 
Mr R complained to Magnet who sold him the policy saying he didn't feel the 
proportionate remedy had been made clear in the application process. Magnet said they 
thought the information was clear about the importance of providing an adequate re-build 
cost for the property and the consequences of not doing so. 
Remaining unhappy Mr R brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. She thought Magnet acted fairly in the questions 
asked, and guidance given, when the application was made. Mr R disagreed so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided a lot of information about his complaint and it's clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr R that I've read and considered 
everything, even if I do not mention it in detail. I've summarised things which reflect the 
informal nature of our service.
As a matter of good industry practice I'd expect Magnet to highlight in the online process, or 
soon afterwards, how important it is to get the re-build amount right, and the implications of 
getting it wrong. Looking at the application process I'm satisfied that Magnet did this. 
Mr R started his application for the policy on a comparison website. The website asked 
"What is the property's rebuild cost" and Mr R entered the value of £150,000. After doing this 
a note popped up with details about the difference between the market value of the property 
and the rebuild cost. The note also gave information about how to work out the figures 
including a reference to a rebuild cost calculator. 
From the comparison website Mr R was taken to the Magnet website to confirm the details of 
his application. One of the questions in the process was "How much would it cost to rebuild 
your property?" The amount of £150,000, which Mr R had entered on the comparison 
website, was populated as the answer. The note next to this question again had information about how to calculate the figures 
with reference to a rebuild calculator. Under the bold heading of "Important Note" it says:
 If the sum insured does not cover the full reinstatement cost of your home, this may 
invalidate your policy or reduce claims settlements. 
Looking at the information I think the importance of getting the figures right was made clear 
in the application. And there was sufficient information on both websites about how to 
calculate the figures and where to get help if a consumer was unsure about the amounts.
I've also looked at the policy documents Mr R was provided with after the sale. Section 1 of 
the policy has a part titled "Proportionate remedy". This says:
If the cost of rebuilding the buildings is more than your sum insured at the time of any loss or 
damage, then we will proportionally reduce the amount of any claim payment made by the 
percentage of premium which has arisen as a result of the shortfall in the sum insured. 
The section goes on to give an example of how this works.
Considering both the application process, and the policy documents issued after the sale, 
I'm satisfied Magnet made clear the importance of getting the rebuild cost right, and 
implications of getting it wrong. That's not to say Mr R hasn't had trouble with his claim; he 
has, however this complaint is about the sale of the policy and not how the claim has been 
handled.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman