DRN-2180661
The complaint
Miss H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc charged her overdraft fees and other 
fees while she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss H has a current account with RBS. In April 2020 she complained that RBS had been 
charging various fees on her current account, and that this had exacerbated her ongoing 
financial difficulties. She asked for all the fees she had been charged in the last six years to 
be refunded, with interest.
RBS denied that it had done anything wrong. It said the fees had been charged in line with 
the account terms and conditions, and that a ruling by the Supreme Court in 2009 meant that 
the charges could not be challenged for being unfair. It suggested that Miss H contact its 
financial difficulties team, or contact an independent debt advice charity, and provided the 
contact details of each of these. Nevertheless, as a gesture of good will RBS refunded £154 
of charges.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Miss H brought this complaint to this Service. Our 
investigator did not uphold it. He agreed with RBSs reasons, and he said that if Miss H had 
told RBS she had been in financial difficulty then it could have helped her sooner, but she 
had not done so until she had brought this complaint. He acknowledged that RBS would 
then have had a duty to treat her positively and sympathetically, but that might not 
necessarily have meant stopping or refunding the charges.
Miss H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for essentially 
the same reasons.
Miss Hs complaint is essentially about the fact that RBS did not help her when she was in 
financial difficulty, and so I will focus on that. I dont need to repeat what has already been 
said about the Supreme Court ruling or about RBSs terms and conditions.
A lender  which includes a bank which offers an overdraft facility  is indeed obliged to treat 
its customers positively and sympathetically, once it learns that they are in financial difficulty. 
That might involve freezing or cancelling charges, but not necessarily  it might require some 
other solution instead. But a lender can only be expected to help once it knows that there is 
a problem.
There is an onus on both parties in that regard. A customer who is in financial difficulty 
should tell the lender, rather than wait for the lender to notice. After all, the customer is 
usually the one who will notice first. The lender is also under a duty to pro-actively contact a 
customer if it becomes aware that the customer may be in financial difficulties, which might 
come about because the lender notices that the customer frequently uses unarranged 
overdrafts, frequently has payments returned for lack of funds, or frequently requests 
increased overdraft limits, for example.
Miss Hs statements show that she was frequently overdrawn, but usually not by much and 
generally within her overdraft limit, and she brought her account back into credit each month. 
So I wouldnt expect RBS to have realised that she was in financial difficulty just from 
monitoring her account. Now that RBS is aware of her difficulties, it can help her, but I dont 
think the charges were wrongly incurred, or that they should have to be refunded.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman