DRN-2948130
The complaint
 Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) stopped 
her credit card.
What happened
 Mrs P was a member of the armed forces and had a credit card from Barclaycard with a 
limit of £6750. In June 2019, Barclaycard wrote to her to say they couldnt use her BFPO 
address. In September 2019, they stopped her account and cancelled the limit. The balance 
is now £4588.45 debit.
Mrs P complained. Shed called Barclaycard in June 2019 to advise them of her new posting 
and new BFPO address. Barclaycard had  wrongly  told her that they couldnt use the 
BFPO address. And then closed her account in error. She only found this out in March 2020. 
She now had no access to the pervious limit of £6750. Barclaycard wouldnt reinstate the 
limit and she had to ask for a new card with a new limit. She was now working back in the 
UK on a job which paid less  so it was unlikely she could get another card with a limit of 
£6750. And when she was left without a card  this was inconvenient, especially during the 
pandemic  when she needed the card to pay for things for her children  they were in the 
UK, and she was still abroad.
Barclaycard apologised. They accepted theyd got things wrong. They ran a process to close 
all accounts with a non-UK address  but this shouldnt have included Mrs Ps BFPO 
address. So  they shouldnt have closed her account in September 2019. But with the 
passage of time, they couldnt put her previous limit back in place, and she would have to 
apply again. They paid compensation of £150 for what had happened.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that Barclaycard had made an error. 
He couldnt compel Barclaycard to reinstate the credit limit as that was their commercial 
decision to make.  But  he thought that Barclaycard should increase the amount of 
compensation by £350. He noted that the previous amount of £150 had been credited to Mrs 
Ps card account  she shouldve been given the option to have it paid in cash. He could 
accept that being without a card must have caused some inconvenience to Mrs P  but 
equally, there werent any transactions between July 2019 to September 2019, so how much 
inconvenience this caused wasnt certain.
Barclaycard didnt agree. They said they couldnt reissue the card without a proper analysis 
of Mrs Ps circumstances. They thought the compensation of £150 was right for what 
happened  given that Mrs P stopped using the card in July 2019 and didnt notice the 
account was closed until March 2020. They asked that an ombudsman look at Mrs Ps 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The crux of my review is  how much compensation should be paid here.
I can see that Barclaycard made an error  and theyve admitted this and paid compensation 
of £150. But, they cant reinstate Mrs Ps previous limit of £6750, because they need to look 
at her circumstances now. They argue that because she hadnt used the card between July 
2019 and September 2019  and didnt notice the account was closed until March 2020, 
then she couldnt have been inconvenienced very much and therefore their compensation of 
£150 was right.
On the other hand  I can see that Mrs P called Barclaycard when she had a new posting in 
June 2019  and she was misadvised then that she couldnt use a BFPO address for 
correspondence. So  Barclaycard couldve prevented at the outset what then happened. 
And  Mrs P has argued that she needed the card during the pandemic  when her children 
were in the UK, and she was serving abroad. Ive looked at her statements, and while the 
account is largely simply being reduced by monthly payments, I can also see that the card 
was used for purchases in the UK from time to time  so her testimony looks sound in this 
respect.
Barclaycard have told us and Mrs P that they cant reinstate her old limit. She will have to 
reapply. We cant tell Barclaycard to give Mrs P back her old limit  thats their commercial 
decision to make. And, Mrs P has said that shes on a lower income now, so its unlikely that 
a limit of £6750 would be agreed. Nevertheless, as a result of Barclaycards mistake, Mrs P 
will now have to make applications for a new card  with Barclaycard or other lenders. This 
is inconvenient and will take time.
I can also se that the compensation of £150 was credited to her Barclaycard account  I 
agree that Barclaycard shouldve given Mrs P the option of whether she wanted this paid to 
her personally.
Mrs P told us that she couldnt access the account online since it has been closed. 
Barclaycard told us that she can access online statements, and they can also send paper 
statements to her. If she wants these, she should contact Barclaycard.
The matter of compensation is a subjective matter. But, on balance, I do think that the 
increased payment of £350 is a fair outcome. And  Mrs P should be given the option of 
receiving this as a payment to her, or as a reduction to her Barclaycard account.
Putting things right
Barclaycard should pay to Mrs P a further amount of compensation of £350, this in addition 
to the £150 already paid. 
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:Pay compensation of £350 to Mrs P for distress and inconvenience. This is in 
addition to the £150 already paid. This to be either paid direct to Mrs P, or credited to 
her Barclaycard account, at her option. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman