DRN-2800361
The complaint
Mr C says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr C between 
January and June 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedinstalments 
(monthly)date repaid
1 21/01/2019 £300 6 25/01/2019
2 17/02/2019 £500 6 25/05/2019
3 07/03/2019 £170 6 25/05/2019
4 20/06/2019 £500 6 14/05/2020
5 28/06/2019 £100 5 03/07/2019
Lending Stream has looked at Mr Cs complaint and agrees that it shouldnt have approved 
loan 5. It has made an offer of compensation to refund the interest Mr C has paid on this 
loan plus interest at the rate of 8% simple. It will also remove any adverse information about 
this loan from Mr Cs credit file. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks Lending Stream did 
before approving loans 1 to 4 were reasonable. And the offer it had made in respect of loan 
5 was the same as this service would have awarded if it were to uphold the complaint. So, 
he thought no further compensation was due for this loan. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He still thought that all of the loans were mis-
sold. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Loans 1 to 4
Mr C needed to repay around £100 a month for six months for loan 1. This rose to just under 
£170 for loan 2, and to around £230 for loan 3 for a short period when loans 2 and 3 
overlapped. The repayment was around £170 for loan 4.  
Ive seen a record of the information Mr C provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr C said he had a monthly income of around £1,350 for loans 1 and 2 and £1,450 for loans 
3 and 4. He had regular monthly outgoings of around £500. So, it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to think that these loans were affordable for Mr C. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware 
of any financial problems Mr C mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did for loans 1 
to 4 were proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these loans was reasonable.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about them. 
Loan 5
Lending Stream has upheld Mr Cs complaint about this loan. I can confirm that the 
compensation it has offered to calculate, and pay, is the same that I would award if I were to 
uphold the complaint about this loan. So, I wont look at the sale of this loan in detail, save to 
say I agree that Lending Stream should pay compensation for approving this loan. 
Ive included the offer Lending Stream has made in my putting things right section below. If 
Mr C accepts this decision then he will be accepting this method of compensation to resolve 
his entire complaint. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream shouldnt have approved loan 5A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file in relation to loan 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax Lending Stream has deducted, 
if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. I think the offer it has made 
for loan 5 is reasonable. 
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above if Mr C accepts this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman