DRN-4045800
The complaint
P complains Xbridge Limited mis-sold a Business Insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. Instead, Ill 
summarise my understanding and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr L owns a landscaping business Ill refer to as P. P took out a business insurance policy 
online through Xbridge in 2019. The business trade was selected as being landscape 
gardening excluding tree felling. The policy automatically renewed thereafter until 2022 when 
Mrs L  on behalf of P  contacted Xbridge by phone to request confirmation the policy had 
renewed, and to increase public liability cover. A new policy was set up with a different 
insurer. And this policy was said to be specifically required for work P had with a local 
authority and school. P also says it informed Xbridge of this in 2022. 
P raised a claim to the insurer in relation to works undertaken at the school. The insurer 
declined it as, broadly, the works undertaken by P which gave rise to the claim were outside 
the trade/profession disclosed when the policy was taken out. P complained Xbridge mis-
sold the policy, as the landscape gardener definition was too narrow, and the works P did 
was much wider than that. But Xbridges website only provided two options close to Ps trade 
and profession. P wanted Xbridge to refund all premiums, apologise, pay compensation, and 
cover the claim costs. 
Xbridge concluded the policy wasnt mis-sold. They say the policy was purchased online 
initially without any interaction for a business said to be trading as landscape gardeners. The 
sales process on their website prompts a customer to make contact if a close match with 
their trade and profession cannot be found. And in 2022, a full risk check was completed by 
phone whereby P confirmed the trade selected still covered Ps business activities. They say 
the onus was on P to provide a fair presentation of risk. P didnt agree and asked our 
Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. She wasnt persuaded Xbridge made 
any errors and used the information presented by P to set up policies. P didnt agree and 
maintained the landscape gardener definition was too narrow, and Xbridge took payment for 
policies they knew werent fit for purpose. As P didnt agree, the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many points have been made in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each one 
individually. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt 
meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Ive reviewed the sales journey P completed in 2019. The screenshots provided show the 
question What is your specific trade/profession? was asked. P answered with Landscape 
gardening excluding treefelling. This answer is also within the policy schedules on file. The 
screenshot on the website shows, when answering this question, that if a customer is unable 
to find a close match to their trade/profession, to call Xbridge. Ive seen no evidence 
currently to show a call was made by P to discuss this. The website also enables a customer 
to add a secondary trade/profession on top of the main one as part of the business. 
P says there are only two options for landscaper. And P also says landscapers arent 
landscape gardeners. As such, its my opinion the sales journey was clear enough in so far 
as it should have prompted P to contact Xbridge to ensure the appropriate trade and 
profession was selected. I say this given Ps comments regarding the difference between its 
own trade and profession, and that of a landscape gardener. The onus was on P to provide 
a fair presentation of risk. And Im satisfied it was reasonable for Xbridge to use the 
information P gave to provide insurance policies. 
I appreciate it only came to light once P raised a claim that the works being carried out in 
2022 fell outside the landscape gardening definition. But its clear in my view that P 
understood the difference between its trade and profession, and importantly, this went 
beyond a landscape gardener  which would have needed further consideration to the level 
of cover needed, and the risk and price of the policy, amongst other things. As mentioned 
above, the onus here was on P to ensure the correct level of cover was in place, and the 
sales journey  with Ps knowledge of its trade and profession  ought to have prompted P to 
contact Xbridge to ensure the level of cover was suitable for Ps business activities. 
Ive also reviewed the 2022 call. Mrs L  on behalf of P  asks the agent to confirm the policy 
renewed and to add £10million public liability cover for some local authority work. The agent 
says the insurer of the previous policy might not cover this, so a full risk check was 
completed. During this, the agent asks about Ps trade and profession  and whether 
landscape gardening excluding tree felling is still correct for Ps business activities. Mrs L 
confirms thats accurate. I found no mention during this call of the specific work P would be 
undertaking that P says was the reason for changing cover. So, I cannot agree the agent 
made an error here or failed to correctly categorise Ps trade and profession. I say this 
because the onus was on P to provide a fair presentation of risk. 
To summarise here, Im not satisfied Xbridge made an error during the sales process when 
the policy was taken out, or when cover changed providers. The onus was for P to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Ps business activities it would be undertaking. So, it follows, I 
dont require Xbridge to take any action because Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold. 
I appreciate this outcome wont be the one P was hoping for. But this decision ends our 
Services involvement in attempting to informally resolve this dispute between P and 
Xbridge. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman