DRN-3879653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are complaining about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
has handled a claim they made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J experienced an escape of water in their bathroom so they contacted RSA to 
claim for the damage. Theyre unhappy with the way RSA handled the claim. In particular 
theyve raised the following points:
RSA wouldnt instruct a drying specialist. They believe that RSA should have stripped 
everything out and arranged for everything to be dried before rectifying the issues. And 
they provided a report from Mr Js father, who they say is a specialist in this area, setting 
out why they think drying was needed to be done. They say RSA refused to do further 
investigation work and they highlighted that it later came to light that there was significant 
water damage below the floorboards
Theyre unhappy RSA instructed a drying specialist, but the specialist later said they 
werent willing to carry out the work because they were told drying wasnt needed.
They think RSA deliberately delayed settling the claim and believe its actions were 
potentially discriminatory as Mr J set out he had a number of health challenges that were 
made worse as a result of RSAs claim handling.
RSA says this was a straightforward claim that was delayed because of Mr Js actions. It 
said its not disputed that there was minimal water damage to the main floorboards. And it 
said the scope of work included taking up the floorboards, so any further water damage 
underneath  including drying requirements  would have been seen following this. It 
maintained it had handled the claim fairly and the claim was delayed due to Mr Js actions as 
opposed to anything it did wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he was satisfied RSA handled the claim 
fairly. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that Im conscious Mr and Mrs J have provided extensive submissions 
regarding their thoughts on this complaint and Ive summarised the complaint in a lot less 
detail than theyve presented it. I assure them, however, that I have read and considered 
everything theyve provided. However, Ive not commented on each and every point theyve 
raised. I dont mean any discourtesy by this, but this simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. In this decision Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points. Our rules 
entitle me to do this.
In addition to this, I can only consider RSAs actions up to the date it issued its final 
response. I can see the claim progressed further after RSA responded to Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint. But Im unable to consider anything that happened after that point. Mr and Mrs J 
have acknowledged that they understand and accept this.
Id like to first explain that its not for this service to say how the claim should have been 
handled, but we look at whether RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in the way its handled 
it. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about whats happened and what RSA should 
have done. But Im not persuaded RSA acted unfairly.
The leak that Mr and Mrs J have claimed for is a common claim that RSA would deal with 
under a buildings insurance policy. I appreciate Mr and Mrs J felt that detailed and extensive 
investigation work and drying needed to be carried out before any claim should proceed. Ive 
read and considered Mr Js detailed investigation report. And I can understand their point of 
view given the moisture readings (amongst others) that he obtained. But Im satisfied RSA 
has taken this report into consideration and its scope of works was sufficient to consider this 
claim fairly. In essence, it seems to me that the issues here rest with the sub-floor  i.e. the 
contention that water had leaked through the main floorboards and onto the flooring below. 
But the scope of works covers for this.
I dont think its unreasonable that RSA didnt feel it was necessary to do a full strip out of 
everything in the bathroom and initially looked to do a minor local strip out. I think this is 
standard industry practice and I cant say this is unreasonable. If, after starting the work, it 
revealed that further drying was required, then I would expect it to rectify this accordingly. 
But based on the initial inspections, I cant say that RSA acted unreasonably in this regard.
Ultimately, RSA is entitled to decide how a claim is to proceed. However, it should exercise 
this right in a fair and reasonable way. But, while I would expect an insurer to take a 
consumers comments and requests into consideration, its not for the consumer to direct 
RSA how to handle the claim. Insurers  and loss adjustors where applicable  have a 
wealth of experience in handling claims such as the one Mr and Mrs J raised. And theyre 
entitled to make use of this experience in deciding how to proceed with a claim. Theyre also 
entitled to look to minimise their claim outlay where reasonable.
I acknowledge that, after the removal of the flooring, it became apparent that there was 
significant water damage. But this doesnt mean RSAs initial consideration as to how to 
handle the claim was unreasonable. As I said, if after starting the repair process, further 
issues came to light then I would have expected it to respond accordingly. I recognise 
Mr and Mrs J have set out that RSAs initial scope of works was optimistic. But, as I said, this 
is the expectation of what works is likely to need doing and isnt fixed. So the scope of works 
would be expanded if further work was required.  
I note Mr and Mrs J have expressed concerns about the length of time this matter took and 
that contractors were withdrawn. But it seems to me that the delays were down to the fact 
that they didnt agree with what RSA wanted to do. I can also see it seems that they 
informed RSA they werent willing to pay their excess until RSA had carried out a full drying 
out process. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about whats happened and I appreciate the impact this has had on Mr J in particular due to his health concerns. But I cant say RSA has 
acted unfairly in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman