DRN-2885462
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a Signature Account (SA) in August 2012 by 
Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Mr S says that he was told that that the SA would help him get an overdraft or loan, and that 
is the only reason he took it out.
Clydesdale says that it provided Mr S with information about the SA and it says he chose to 
take it out based on that information.
Mr S has previously had a fee account with an overdraft, so he knew these were available. 
So, I think its more likely than not that he chose to take out the SA and pay a monthly fee for 
it.
Ive considered carefully how the SA was sold as this is central to this complaint.
Clydesdale says that Mr S bought the SA online and it has provided specific evidence that 
Mr S logged on to its system and carried out the online procedure.
Mr S initially said he had a telephone conversation in which he opened the SA. He then said 
he went into a branch to make a deposit and opened the account. He later said he had gone 
into a branch to discuss some foreign travel and opened the account. In these 
circumstances, he said that it was a Clydesdale representative who must have logged online 
and opened the SA.
While I dont doubt Mr Ss honest attempts to recall something that took place nearly nine 
years ago, when I consider Clydesdales specific evidence, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr S did open the SA on line himself.
This service considers any online application to be an information only sale, that is, one 
where advice and recommendation was not given, and I see no reason to consider this sale 
differently.
So, Clydesdale was only required to provide Mr S with enough information to make an 
informed decision about the SA. 
Clydesdale has provided screen shots of its online process and in my view, these provide 
the information about the cost and benefits Mr S wouldve needed in his circumstances to 
decide if he wanted to buy the SA or not. He had to tick a box to say hed read the 
information before he could proceed to take out the SA.
Ive not seen any evidence that the online process informed him that having the SA would 
help him to get an overdraft or loan. But I have seen evidence that the SA provided better 
rates for an overdraft or loan, and I think its more likely than not that this was what he was 
offered.
Any bank is entitled to offer better overdraft or loan rates in a packaged bank account, this is 
a purely commercial decision and Clydesdale did nothing wrong in doing so.
So, in my view, Mr S chose to take out the SA and I think its more likely than not that 
Clydesdale did nothing wrong in the sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman