DRN-3797386
The complaint
Mrs P complains that The Share Centre Limited (TSC) didnt close her account when she
asked. She is also unhappy with the charges she paid and the general service she received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 November 2022 where I set out why I felt the complaint 
should be upheld and what I felt the redress should be. An extract is below and forms part of 
this decision.
Mrs P complained to TSC in October 2020 after she said she had found out that she
was paying £2 a month for an account that she didnt previously pay for. She also
requested that the account be closed.
I agree with the investigator that this charge had been fairly explained to Mrs P in
writing in March and June 2020. Although Mrs P may not have read these letters, I
do think TSC did enough to make her aware of the new charge and I wont be asking
them to refund these charges paid.
TSC have already agreed to refund postal charges Mrs P paid of £12.39 and I think
this is fair. TSC have also paid Mrs P £50 compensation for delays and not closing
her account sooner. However, I dont think this goes far enough.
Mrs P was clear in her communication in October 2020 that she wanted to close the
account. Whilst this might have required further information and confirmation, TSC
should have been clearer regarding that.
I believe this meant Mrs P carried on paying charges that she shouldnt have incurred
and also had the inconvenience of receiving further letters from a company that
acquired TSC, in the months following her request to close the account. This clearly
caused Mrs P some confusion and I am still unsure if the account has yet been
closed.
Due to this, I think TSC should pay increased compensation to Mrs P for the
inconvenience caused, of a further £100. I also dont think Mrs P should have paid
any charges for the account, following her request to close it in October 2020.
TSC responded to say that they agreed to pay a further £100 compensation. They didnt 
think that they should have to refund charges incurred since they accepted the investigators 
view. As they said it was made clear to Mrs P how to close the account, but she had failed to 
contact them. However, they agreed to close the account without any further instruction and 
pay the compensation and refund of charges by cheque, as a gesture of goodwill. 
In response to my provisional findings Mrs P provided numerous comments, which I have 
summarised as below:
That charges, including those introduced of £2 a month, were not fair. 
Whilst she was willing to accept the increased compensatory figure, she wasnt 
satisfied the postal charge refund figure was correct. 
She also said she hadnt received a previous refund or compensatory amount and 
would like a closing statement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that it was fair for TSC to charge Mrs P a £2 monthly fee from July 2020. 
I have read the letters from March and June 2020 and I think these were clear that the fee 
was being introduced and why. I appreciate Mrs P then received a letter in July 2020 stating 
the fee would now remain the same, but this was after the £2 charge had been introduced. 
So, I wont be asking TSC to refund these charges. 
Im glad that TSC have agreed to pay Mrs P a further £100 for the inconvenience caused 
and refund charges incurred since October 2020. I maintain this is the right thing to do as 
TSC should have done more to follow up Mrs Ps request to close the account at this time. 
Mrs P has also asked for a statement to show charges that were taken and what has been 
refunded, which I think is fair. These show that the correct postal charge was previously 
refunded and will explain any further amounts paid to Mrs P by cheque. TSC has also now 
agreed to close the account without any further confirmation from Mrs P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Share Centre Limited to:
Refund all charges and fees paid since October 2020, if not already done so;
Pay a further £100 compensation directly to Mrs P, if not already done so;
Close the account and send written confirmation of this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman