DRN-2183394
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Allay Claims Ltd are charging her a fee for a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim, she says she didnt authorise them to make.
What happened
In March 2018, Mrs Ws partner completed an application for Allay to carry out a free PPI 
check. And Mrs W said he asked her to sign  a letter of authority (LoA) so they could look 
into making a PPI claim for their joint mortgage account. 
This claim was successful and Mr and Mrs W paid Allay their fee for the successful claim. 
But Mrs W was surprised to then receive compensation from her other lenders for her sole 
accounts with them. And shortly afterwards Allay asked her to pay their success fees for 
these. Mrs W said she hadnt authorised Allay to look into any of her own accounts, and she 
hadnt returned any of their requests to complete a LoA just in her name. She complained to 
Allay.
Allay said the LoA she signed with her partner had given them authorisation to look into all of 
her accounts. They had submitted claims to her lenders, and the offers of compensation 
were the result of what theyd done. They said their success fee was justified. As Mrs W had 
signed the LoA before the PPI fee cap had come into force their fee was, as per their terms 
and conditions at the time, 36% inclusive of VAT. But they agreed to reduce this to the fee 
cap of 24% inclusive of VAT, as the claim was submitted after the fee cap had been 
introduced.
Mrs W wasnt happy with their response, and she reiterated she hadnt given authorisation 
for Allay to make any claims for her sole accounts. And one of her lenders had confirmed 
they didnt hold a valid authority for Allay to represent her. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into her concerns, but he didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that Mrs W had received her settlement from the lender as a result 
of Allays involvement. 
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator. She said Allays terms hadnt been clear about 
looking at any accounts other than the joint mortgage account. And theyd continually 
chased her to complete a LoA which she says showed they knew they didnt have her 
authority for them to act on her behalf. She asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. In reaching my decision Ive looked to see if the information Allay provided to 
Mrs W was clear. And whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in what theyve done.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in March 2018. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs W has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mrs Ws lenders and these details were 
provided. Mrs W has said the application wasnt completed by her but made by her partner. 
On completion of the application, a LoA would have been generated populated with the 
supplied information. And to be submitted a signature had to be added and this is what 
happened. 
Mrs W doesnt dispute she signed a LoA but that it wasnt the online digital LoA. Mrs W said 
she signed a paper document so hers was a wet signature.  The paper LoA Mrs W signed, I 
can see clearly shows details of her lender, Ill call H, and lists the products she wants Allay 
to look into, this includes, credit card, loan and mortgage accounts. The LoA says:
I/We also request you to provide Allay with account numbers in respect of all accounts past 
or present held with you and authorise you to also provide Allay with any other information 
requested by them at any stage.
And above Mrs Ws signature says:
I/We have read this Letter of Authority and the Allay Claims Ltd. Terms of Engagement (a 
copy of which Is overleaf) and agree to be bound by their contents.
Allays terms of engagement (ToE) were also available to see. And in signing the paper LoA 
Mrs W had agreed to them. And these say:
 We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been Identified and 
automatically submit your complaint to the lender after 7 days, unless you notify us 
otherwise, If the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will 
apply.
And I can see Allay sent a letter addressed solely to Mrs W, dated 21 May 2018, saying that 
theyd completed the free PPI check and had located PPI on her credit card account with 
lender H
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we notify you of the presence of PPI, you have a 14 day cooling off period 
during which you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14 day cooling 
off period we obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable. To 
cancel your contract with us, simply call Customer Services on 0191462 OOOO or download 
a Cancellation Form from our website www.aliay.co.uk.
If I calculate the 14-day cooling off period from the date in May 2018 when Allay notified 
Mrs W she had PPI, this would have given her to around 4 June 2018 to cancel her 
agreement with Allay. And if Mrs W was certain she hadnt asked Allay to work for her, she 
could have upon being told about PPI being found taken this opportunity to ask Allay about 
their involvement. And to cancel it at no charge. Allay wrote again to Mrs W in January 2019 
to ask her complete further documents for her PPI claim with lender H. Mrs W may not 
have acted on or read the requests, and she has shown she tore up the letters, but I cant 
hold Allay responsible for this. And I dont think it was enough by Mrs W not engaging with 
Allay to consider this as her cancelling her agreement with them. I cant see any evidence that despite opportunities for Mrs W to speak to or get in touch with Allay, it wasnt until after 
her claim was successful that she questioned Allays involvement. 
I think it was the lack of engagement with Mrs W that led to the delay in Allay submitting her 
claim to lender H as the claim wasnt submitted until August 2019. But if Allay hadnt 
submitted the claim at this time Mrs W would have missed the deadline for making such 
claims. 
I can understand her frustration as lender H said in January 2020, they didnt have a 
relevant LoA for Mrs W. But in February 2020, lender H told Mrs W her claim for the mis-
selling of a PPI policy was successful and referenced on her notification that the claim had 
been brought to them by Allay. Lender H also told Allay that Mrs W had a success claim.  I 
think this shows they saw Allay as Mrs Ws representative. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mrs W directly asked her lender to investigate a mis-sold PPI policy for her before the 
August deadline. And Mrs Ws lenders wouldnt have looked at any mis-sold PPI complaint 
made after the deadline for making such claims. Mrs W didnt sign the requested LoA that 
Allay sent, but this didnt mean the LoA they had on record wasnt valid as Mrs W had given 
her authorisation in March 2018. So, as the claim was submitted by Allay and accepted by 
lender H Im persuaded that Mrs W had authorised Allay to act on behalf.
The agreement Mrs W had with Allay was based on a No Win No Fee. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually 
undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Mrs Ws claim was successful.
The terms and conditions Mrs W signed as having agreed to in March 2018, gave Allays 
success fee as 36% inclusive of VAT. The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) 
required the Claims Management Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee 
cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims management companies 
couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT. But this wasnt to be 
applied retrospectively. Mrs W signed her agreement with Allay in March 2018, before the 
fee cap came into force. But Allay has said as they didnt submit Mrs Ws claim until August 
2019 their fee would reflect the fee cap thats in place for PPI claims. I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
I know Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the evidence 
provided I think Allay had been authorised to act on her behalf to pursue her claim for mis-
sold PPI.  And she didnt cancel her agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off 
period. So, I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they 
can charge their success fee.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman