DRN-4045873
The complaint
Mr N complains that Advantage Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2016, Mr N acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Advantage Finance. Mr N made an advance payment of £250 and was required to make 53 
monthly repayments of around £164, with a final payment of around £338. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £9,250.
Mr N says that the hire purchase agreement had an extortionate rate of interest and wasnt 
affordable. He says the repayments put him under financial pressure causing him health 
issues. Advantage Finance said that before lending to Mr N it gathered information about his 
employment and residential status and he said he was employed full time, single and living 
in rented accommodation. It says it verified Mr Ns income and carried out a credit check. It 
noted Mr N had some historical financial issues which it said was likely why Mr N had come 
to it as a specialised lender. It said Mr Ns credit report showed total indebtedness of £1,593 
which it considered serviceable. Advantage Finance said that Mr N was provided with the 
information he needed to make an informed decision and that the lending appeared 
affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr N didnt agree, and the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Advantage Finance gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence from Mr N about his income as it received a copy of his weekly wage slip which 
also showed his pay to date with the company. It carried out a credit check which I havent 
seen a copy of and given the time that has passed since the lending was provided any 
current credit file is unlikely to give a clear picture of what would have been seen at the time. 
However, Advantage Finance has provided information about the results of this check and 
noted that Mr N had suffered historic financial difficulties. Advantage Finance has explained 
its role as a specialist lender, and I do not think that the presence of historic issues on Mr Ns 
credit file meant that the lending shouldnt have been provided. However, given Mr Ns 
income and that he had experienced previous financial issues, I think it would have been 
reasonable to have got detailed information about his expenses, rather than relying on 
estimates, to ensure the lending was affordable.
I cant be certain what Mr N would have told Advantage Finance had it asked about his 
regular expenditure. I dont think Advantage Finance needed to request bank statements, 
but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information 
contained in Mr Ns statements as an indication of what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These provide some 
information about Mr Ns expenses at the time and Mr N has provided further details about 
his other costs. Having considered all the information provided, Mr Ns regular committed 
monthly expenditure at the time appeared to be around £600. In calculating this figure, Ive 
included costs such as rent, utilities, insurance, food and fuel. At the time his monthly 
income appeared to be around £1,100. Taking these figures into account, and noting the 
monthly repayment amounts were around £164, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Mr N. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Advantage Finance acted unfairly 
in approving the finance. 
Mr N also said the interest rate on the agreement was very high causing him financial 
difficulties. I am sorry to hear of the problems Mr N has experienced and the effect this has 
had on his health. However, having looked through the information that was provided to him 
at the time the lending was agreed, I can see this clearly set out the costs of the finance and 
the payments Mr N was required to make. Therefore, I find that Mr N was given the 
information he needed to make an informed decision. So, while I note the comments made, I 
do not find I can uphold this part of his complaint.
Overall, while I am sorry to hear of Mr Ns experience, I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman