DRN-1347426
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down part of a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs Gs home was broken into. Several items were stolen, including 
their spare car keys. Luckily, the cars hadnt been at home, so werent stolen. But Mr and 
Mrs G incurred some costs in getting the keys replaced and the immobiliser codes changed. 
Mr and Mrs G made a claim to Aviva for the stolen items and the costs theyd paid out for the 
keys.
Aviva agreed to deal with the claim. But it said that the car keys were specifically excluded 
by the contents section of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. So it didnt agree to pay anything towards 
the costs of replacing the keys and getting the codes changed.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Avivas decision. They felt the policy wording was 
ambiguous and open to interpretation. They felt the policy wording didnt consider the 
context of the theft  that it had been a house burglary, where the contents of the home had 
been stolen. And they argued that as the schedule stated that contents left in an unattended 
vehicle was covered, this also added to the ambiguity. They felt that conflicting wording in 
the policy reflected unfair contract terms. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy wording and the schedule were clear. And he thought car keys were clearly excluded 
from cover.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They felt there was a genuine ambiguity that some items which 
would normally be kept in the house would be covered if they were stolen from a car; but 
that keys stolen from a house werent covered. They also said that the keys really were a 
household item and should be treated as such.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that the burglary was stressful for Mr and Mrs G and I appreciate they feel 
strongly about their complaint.
But as our investigator explained, when looking into whether or not an insurer has handled a 
claim fairly, we need to consider the policy terms and conditions. And whether or not the 
insurer has applied those terms and conditions fairly and reasonably in the way its handled a claim. For me to decide Aviva treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly, Id need to be persuaded it 
hadnt properly, fairly or reasonably applied its policy terms when dealing with their claim for 
the keys.
So Ive carefully considered what the contents section of the policy says and the cover it 
offers. The policy covers the theft of contents from the home. Avivas defined what it means 
by contents in the definitions section of the policy booklet. The policy says:
Household items and personal belongings (including personal money, valuables and home 
office equipment) up to the limits on your schedule.
The policy also defines what Aviva means by personal belongings. The policy states:
Clothing, jewellery, watches, mobile phones and gadgets like laptops or tablets, sports, 
musical or photographic equipment, luggage bags and other items designed to be worn or 
carried. 
Having carefully considered both definitions, it doesnt seem to me as if Aviva intended car 
keys to fall within either the definition of contents or personal belongings.
As Mr and Mrs Gs complaint turns on whether or not the vehicle keys should be included 
within their contents claim, Ive next turned to consider what their policy doesnt cover. Their 
contents policy states:
Under the contents section, we will not cover:
Motorised vehiclesand the parts, spares and accessories of any of these.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Gs cars would fall within the definition of motorised vehicles  any 
electrically or mechanically powered vehicle. And Im also satisfied that their car keys would 
form car accessories.  So, I think this part of their claim is specifically excluded by the terms 
of their policy. This means their keys arent covered.
Ive considered whether theres any ambiguity in the wording of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. I 
dont think there is. I think the policy wording is clear that accessories for motorised vehicles 
arent covered as part of contents claims, even if that theft is from the home.
And I also think Aviva has set out what it means by contents. This doesnt include keys. I 
appreciate the policy does cover personal belongings stolen from an unattended vehicle. 
But, as Ive explained, Aviva has defined what it means by personal belongings and Im 
satisfied this is clear. I dont think its contradictory  its an extra section of contents cover.  
Exclusions for motor vehicles and their accessories are fairly standard across contents 
insurance policies. So, Im not persuaded the policy wording includes unfair contract terms.
Overall, I think it was fair for Aviva to decide Mr and Mrs Gs claim for the stolen keys wasnt 
covered by their contents policy.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman