DRN-2253936
The complaint
Mr E  represented here by a solicitor, Mr T  complains that Haven Insurance Company 
Limited failed to treat him fairly after a claim was made against him under his car insurance.
What happened
Mr E had a car insurance policy with Haven. In August 2018, Haven contacted him about an 
alleged accident the previous month. A third party solicitor (referred to in this decision as 
DS) claimed that Mr Es car had hit their clients car and fled the scene. Haven asked Mr E 
for his comments.
Mr E denied being involved and robustly defended himself throughout discussions over the 
following months. However, in October 2019 Haven accepted liability for the accident. 
Mr E is unhappy that Haven accepted liability when he said he wasnt involved. He is also 
unhappy that, as a result of Haven accepting liability, his premium increased and a marker 
was put on his insurance record. Mr T  on Mr Es behalf  complained. He said:
Havens treatment of Mr E was unfair.
Despite numerous requests, Haven didnt send him the witness statement it relied on 
to hold Mr E liable for the accident.
Haven failed to communicate with Mr E by email, as hed requested.
Haven failed to respond to Mr Es initial complaint about the claim.
Haven acknowledged that its communication hadnt been good enough and apologised for 
these failures. However, it said it had handled the third party claim correctly. Mr E didnt 
accept this response and complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Es complaint should be upheld in part. She was 
satisfied that Haven defended the claim appropriately, but agreed there were times where it 
hadnt communicated well with Mr E. She recommended that Haven pay Mr E £200 for these 
communication failures.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator  specifically, he said our investigator hadnt considered 
the wider impact on his driving record and premium  so the case was passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy, Haven can take over, conduct or settle a 
claim as it sees fit (section 6.1, Conduct of claims/subrogation). This is common in car 
insurance policies and Haven doesnt need Mr E to agree this. It can also admit liability on 
your behalf (section 6.3). This means Haven can make a decision Mr E doesnt agree with. 
If it does, I can decide if that decision was fair and reasonable. 
Ive reviewed Havens notes about the claim, including what it did to investigate and defend 
the claim. Having done so, Im satisfied that its decision to accept liability was reasonable.
Haven spoke to Mr E on 2 August 2018. He denied any involvement in the accident and 
provided two witnesses for his whereabouts at the time. Later, he noted that the photos of 
his car taken by the third party were timestamped 00.14. DS said the accident happened at 
23.55. Mr E  quite reasonably  asked how these photos could have been taken 20 minutes 
after the accident if hed fled the scene immediately.
Haven initially defended the claim. Between August 2018 and July 2019, it challenged DS to 
provide evidence that Mr E was involved in the accident. For example:
2 August 2018: Our client is denying any involvement in the accident. As of now, the 
images you have sent do not actually prove that our client was involved in the 
accident or he was present at the accident location. It asked DS for further proof, a 
witness statement or CCTV footage.
10 October 2018: Please therefore provide evidence to support your allegations.
28 November 2018: We are in receipt of the googled images you have sent, 
however this is not evidence to support the collision.
16 January 2019: Please be advised that the burden of proof is on you to prove the 
involvement and negligence of the other party.
11 February 2019: its not clear from our file as to how my clients vehicle details 
were obtained? Your client stated that he was hit and [sic] speed to which our 
insured apparently drove off from the scene?
21 March 2019: Please can you confirm whether you have a statement from the 
witness?
7 June 2019: Having reviewed our file in full, we will not be entertaining any further 
discussions on the above.
2 July 2019: As advised we will not be entertaining any further discussion.
I can see that DS finally provided a witness statement in July 2019. Havens claim 
investigator interviewed this witness in September 2019 and made a report of his findings. 
The witness described the accident, which included an explanation for the 20 minute time 
difference between the accident and the photos. Haven found the witness credible and  
following its investigators report  accepted liability on 1 October 2019.
To be clear, my role isnt to decide if Mr E was involved in the accident; its to decide 
whether Haven handled the claim fairly. On balance, I think it did: it initially defended the 
claim, repeatedly asked DS to provide evidence of Mr Es involvement, independently 
interviewed the witness, and considered other relevant issues (for example, whether the 
witness was linked to the third party). Havens decision to settle claim was in line with the 
policy terms and, in my opinion, wasnt unreasonable.
However, I agree with Mr E that Havens correspondence was, at times, unfair. Havens 
internal notes show that Mr E asked for correspondence to be in writing in August 2018. 
Haven acknowledged this in an email on 11 September 2018 (We did attempt to contact 
you previously to discuss the matter however you requested we contact you via email). 
However, Haven later tried calling Mr E on at least three more occasions:
It sent him a text message on 18 April 2019. Mr E replied by email, again asking for 
correspondence to be in writing. Haven replied: It would be much easier to discuss 
via phone, as opposed to email. Another investigator emailed him on 11 June 2019: I have attempted to call you 
today but have been unable to reach you, if you let me know what time is best to call 
I would be happy to discuss this further.
Email from Mr E to Haven, 26 September 2019: I had a phone call from [an 
unknown number] on 24.09.2019 Since I have not received anything in writing from 
Haven Claims I wonder if this was a genuine call from Haven Claims?
I understand why Haven would want to discuss the matter with Mr E. But hed already 
provided a detailed response to its questions and  given his ongoing requests for all 
correspondence to be in writing  I dont think Havens continued attempts to call him were 
appropriate. 
I can also see why Mr E felt the tone of Havens emails was aggressive. For example:
Haven asked him to prove a negative, 20 August 2018: In view of the above, we 
respectfully request that you provide us with solid evidence that you were not 
involved.
It set short deadlines that might be seen by Mr E as putting him under pressure. For 
example, on 1 May 2019: should we not hear from you within the next 7 days, we 
will look to deal with the other parties claim on best terms.
An email on 14 May 2019 suggested Mr E might have to attend court: Please can 
you confirm whether you are happy to attend court regarding this matter?
In the circumstances, I think Havens communications with Mr E were, at times, unfair. Our 
investigator recommended that Haven pay Mr E £200 for its communication failures. Haven 
agreed. In the circumstances, I think this is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and require Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr E £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman