DRN-2720201
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim he made under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of the case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr H has made several complaints relating to this claim which are being dealt with under 
different references at this service.  This decision only relates to AXA incorrectly telling Mr H 
the third partys claim was to be paid, how long the claim was taking and how a telephone 
call Mr H made was dealt with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
AXA has admitted it incorrectly told Mr H it was making a payment to the third party, 
when the matter was still being disputed. It realises this caused Mr H worry and 
confusion. Having looked at the file I can see various actions were being taken by 
different handlers around the same time, so some confusion was caused. Im 
pleased to see however the matter was referred to the engineers for review and 
payments werent made at that time. AXA also confirmed its error within 25 minutes 
of the original email being sent.
Claims can take quite a long time to resolve, especially if liability or damage caused 
is in dispute and information is required from third parties. Because of this Im not 
overly concerned by how long the claim had been open. However, AXA has admitted 
it could have been more proactive in chasing responses from the third party.
AXA has taken Mr H on his word that a representative giggled when speaking to him. 
Based on this I dont think it is necessary to listen to the call concerned to determine 
if this did happen. 
AXA has apologised and offered Mr H £150 compensation for the poor service he 
received. Having considered everything, I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman