DRN-3923860
The complaint
Mr P complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Zurich Assurance Ltd 
provided unsuitable advice when one of its advisers recommended an investment to Mr P. 
To put things right, Mr P wants financial compensation.  
What happened
In September 1998, Mr P sought investment advice from a financial adviser who 
recommended him to invest in a personal equity plan (PEP) managed by a third party Ill 
call T. The adviser said his recommendation reflected Mr Ps balanced attitude to 
investment risk. Acting on that advice, Zurich told us that Mr P paid £9,767 into the 
recommended PEP. He made withdrawals in 2003 and 2013 and Mr P still held the 
investment when brought this complaint to us. 
When he complained to Zurich in 2021 that it had wrongly advised him, Zurich said Mr P 
hadnt properly articulated his complaint, he was out of time to complain about what 
happened in 1998 and he hadnt provided any evidence that Zurich had been involved in the 
provision of the original advice. It said Mr Ps investment had transferred to T in 2004 when 
any relevant paperwork had been sent to T and all records destroyed in line with data 
protection requirements. 
Mr P sent Zurich the paperwork he had kept which included the advisers Recommendation. 
This didnt change Zurichs mind. It felt that the evidence provided showed only that Mr P 
had an investment plan managed by T but not that Zurich provided the advice. Zurich said it 
couldnt confirm if any financial advice was provided by its representative and T couldnt say 
either  Zurich said it had checked with T who confirmed it had destroyed relevant 
documentation. Zurich also said that lack of relevant paperwork alone wouldnt be enough of 
a reason to show advice had been unsuitable. 
This prompted Mr P to bring his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of 
our investigators. The investigator issued his view explaining why he didnt believe there was 
sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint. Briefly, he didnt think hed seen enough to show 
that Zurich had provided the investment advice and, even if it had, Mr P would still need to 
provide evidence to show that the recommended PEP had been unsuitable at the time, 
which would be difficult after so long. 
The CMC relied on the paperwork Mr P had provided in support of its view that this was 
enough to show Zurich had provided the original advice and said as follows (Ive 
summarised some of the comments):
the investment is live so it is not clear why they would destroy records relating to the 
advice given originally 
Zurich is unable to demonstrate it took proper steps to know your customer but 
made a recommendation for the client to invest in a volatile investment which has not 
performed very well over the past 24 years
the CMC didnt know if Mr P had been in a position to invest in this type of 
investment, whether he understood the nature of it or had the capacity to take that 
level of risk 
it said Zurich had clients invest in a very high degree of equities with their Managed 
Fund whilst saying this was suitable for a balanced risk investor. 
Our investigator said he didnt feel the information the CMC was relying on showed that 
Zurich had provided the initial advice but that he would check whether Zurich could provide 
anything further that could help with the investigation. 
There was no progress made towards an agreed resolution of the complaint and when it was 
established that Zurich it did not consent to the complaint continuing at this service, the 
question of whether we could investigate the issues arising was considered by an 
ombudsman. A decision was issued which explained why we believe that this complaint is 
within the relevant jurisdiction time limits and it doesnt meet the requirements set out in the 
rules for dismissal. 
The decision that we could deal with the complaint was notified to both parties and the case 
has subsequently come to me to decide the merits of this complaint.
The CMC has made the following further comments:
a recent ombudsman decision in a very similar case was upheld.
Mr P invested most of his liquid savings into this investment 
we have concerns over what Zurich considers to be medium risk as their Balanced 
fund typically is actually high risk given that it invests around 75% to 80% in equities. 
The relevant fact sheet from 1998 shows it was 75% invested in equities and a 
quarter of this in overseas equities, subject to the added risk of currency fluctuation. 
None of this was explained to Mr P. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that this isnt a 
complaint I should uphold. Ill explain my reasons.
As an ombudsman has already explained why this is a complaint this service can consider 
and Zurich has not objected to that view, I dont feel I need to say any more on this, beyond 
confirming that I agree this is a complaint I can consider. 
There are two main issues that the parties are disputing and I will focus in my decision on 
these  who provided the advice to Mr P in 1998 and the suitability of that advice.  
Zurich says that there simply isnt enough information upon which a complaint could be 
upheld as it doesnt have records to confirm if an adviser or appointed representative of 
Zurich gave the advice. Mr P feels that the paperwork hes sent us links Zurich to the 
adviser. 
The investment recommendation Mr P has complained about was made over 24 years ago. 
Not surprisingly, there are only limited records now available from so long ago and it isnt a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
Whilst its clear that Mr P acted on advice when he made his investment, I dont find there is 
enough evidence for me to be able to make a finding that Zurich is responsible for the 
recommendation that was provided to Mr P. 
Looking at the documents provided by Mr P, in particular, the Recommendation which 
shows that advice was provided, its not clear to me that the adviser was necessarily acting 
as one of Zurichs representatives. I appreciate that Mr P, supported by his CMC, takes a 
different view to me. But, ultimately, this makes no overall difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
In order to uphold this complaint, even if I were satisfied that Zurich had provided the advice, 
I would still have to find that the advice was unsuitable  and theres no sufficient evidence 
provided to enable me to draw that conclusion. Heres why I say this.
When deciding on suitability, amongst other things, I need to consider Mr Ps financial 
situation at the time and evaluate his ability to fund the investment and his capacity for loss. 
I need to think carefully about his investment objectives and whether the recommendation 
matched his attitude to risk.  
Mr P has told me nothing about his financial situation and circumstances at the time or what 
he was hoping his investment would achieve for him when he took it out. The CMC said only 
that: It is not clear to us whether Mr P was in a position to invest in this type of investment, 
whether he understood the nature of it or if he had the capacity to take this level of risk.  
After so long I wouldnt reasonably expect Mr P to recall details of what he discussed with 
the adviser. I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive looked carefully at the recommendation prepared by the adviser after speaking with 
Mr P. Although its not signed by Mr P, as this was completed at the point of sale I consider 
its reasonable for me to rely on the information recorded to give me a useful insight into 
Mr Ps circumstances and what was discussed at the time. This records that Mr Ps 
investment goal was to increase the value of his investment  so given this objective I think 
he needed to invest in a risk-based investment. In terms of attitude to risk, Im satisfied that 
this was discussed and that Mr P had a balanced attitude to risk as this is what was 
recorded at the time and Ive been provided with no supporting information to suggest this 
wasnt a fair assessment of his risk approach. 
The PEP recommended was actively managed  which is what the adviser had recorded 
Mr P wanted. And it was noted also that the adviser provided Mr P with the product Key 
Features and a sample illustration that explained details of the proposed investment. So 
I think that Mr P would have been in a position to be able to make an informed investment 
choice.  
The recommended PEP could grow free of income and capital gains tax so it was tax 
efficient for Mr P. Hed said he was happy to commit his capital for the medium to long term, 
and at least for five years, and Mr P understood that the longer he invested, the greater the 
potential for getting best value from his investment. As Mr P maintained the recommended 
PEP for at least 24 years it seems it did match Mr Ps investment needs and objectives and 
it suited his circumstances. 
I've taken into account what the CMC has said about the inherent risks of equity investment 
and that the fund should more accurately have been described as high risk. But more 
important than the actual risk rating is the requirement that the nature of the investment is 
consistent with the investors needs and circumstances. And I think that was the case here 
because had the PEP not fitted Mr Ps risk profile or his circumstances or his investment 
goals, I believe its more likely hed have complained sooner when the PEP didnt perform as 
well as he hoped  or transferred his investment to a lower risk product.
All in all, although I dont know exactly what was discussed between Mr P and the adviser, 
the balance of the available evidence all points to the recommendation having been suitable 
for Mr P. Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I cant fairly say that the PEP 
didnt meet Mr Ps identified needs and investment objectives or that it was too risky for Mr P 
or otherwise unsuitable.
So, as I've seen nothing to make me think that Zurich provided Mr P with an unsuitable 
recommendation or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way towards him, Im 
not upholding his complaint.In coming to my decision, I've taken into account what Mr Ps representative has said about 
the ombudsman approach in another case. But this doesnt affect the outcome of this case. 
We look at each case on its own merits and the particular facts of each case are different. 
Ive explained why this isnt a complaint I feel I can reasonably uphold and what happened in 
another case isnt a reason for me to change what I believe to be a fair outcome here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman