DRN-1741659
The complaint
Mrs. Q complains that Zuto Limited (Zuto) didnt make clear the details of a finance 
agreement she took out. She would like a refund of a £289 admin fee. And a detailed 
explanation of how this situation arose.
What happened
Mrs. Q says she took out a finance agreement with Zuto in February 2016. She said she had 
never taken out a finance agreement before. She says she discussed the monthly 
instalments and the last payment which she understood would be a larger payment. She 
also discussed the terms and conditions of the agreement.
However, Mrs. Q says she only realized when she got her first statement that interest was 
charged up front. She says this has caused her some distress as she was worried, she had 
been overcharged. She also said she has paid a £289 admin B fee but doesnt understand 
what this was for as it was never explained to her.
Zuto said that the monthly installment amount, interest rate, term, deposit and any applicable 
fees were explained to Mrs. Q. It said it was not required to confirm all terms of the 
agreement and was not required to explain how the interest and capital would be split. 
However, it added that on the finance documents supplied by Motonovo and signed and 
returned by Mrs. Q under the Statement of Account the right to receive details of each 
installment including a breakdown of capital repayment and interest was set out So, the 
information was available to Mrs. Q.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found the documentation Zuto had given 
Mrs. Q was clear.
Zuto accepted this view but Mrs. Q didnt. She insisted that she had never been advised that 
the interest payments would be charged up front.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it when Mrs. Q received her first annual statement on the Hire Purchase 
Agreement, she took out with Zuto in February 2016 she realized she hadnt paid off any of 
the actual cost of the car just some of the interest. I can appreciate that must have been 
distressing for her as shes has told us she didnt know how the payments would be 
structured.
Zuto has told us there are several pieces of information it gives orally when agreements are 
taken out. This covers the monthly amount payable, the interest rate, term of the agreement 
and applicable fees.
Mrs. Q has told us she discussed the terms and conditions of the agreement, the monthly 
payments and the fact the final payment would be a larger one. So, it seems she understood 
the key points of the agreement.
It seems there were only two issues Mrs. Q didnt appreciate. Firstly, that the interest would 
be front loaded on the account.  Zuto has told us it didnt have to explain every detail of the 
agreement including how the payments would be split. So I think its fair to say how the 
repayments would be structured wasnt explained to Mrs. Q. And I dont feel this is an an 
obvious question for a consumer to ask.
However, looking at the pre contract information Mrs. Q signed that includes a section on the 
front page titled Statement of account. In that section it makes it clear that a consumer can 
ask, at any time ,for a breakdown of the monthly payments and how the capital and interest 
are repaid. So, if Mrs. Q read that I think she would have realized there was information on 
the repayments that she could have asked for, but she didnt do so.
I have also seen the Hire Purchase Agreement Mrs. Q took out. That clearly sets out the 
cash price of the car, interest rate, interest payable, and the total amount payable.
So, whilst I acknowledge the concern the statement may have caused Mrs. Q I have seen 
nothing to show that Mrs. Q has been overcharged. And I hope she will be reassured now 
she knows how the repayments are structured
The second issue Mrs. Q has raised is the £289 admin B fee which is noted on the Hire 
Purchase Agreement as part of the total amount payable. She says this wasnt explained to 
her and she doesnt know what it is for.
We have asked Zuto to explain what the administrative fee covers. It has told us the fee is 
for the costs incurred in setting up and managing the agreement. I have no evidence to show 
that Mrs. Q was specifically told about this fee. But it is listed on the agreement she signed. 
So, I cant say she wasnt made aware of it. So on that basis I dont feel I can reasonably ask 
Zuto to refund the fee as Mrs. Q would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman