DRN-1328173
The complaint
Mr M complains U K Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
Background
In February 2019 Mr M took out a UKI motor insurance policy. In May 2019 it was cancelled 
by UKI. It felt Mr M hadnt provided proof of his no claims discount (NCD). Mr M thought he 
had. So he had continued to drive his car. He says he found out about the cancellation when 
police stopped him for driving without insurance. 
After Mr M complained, UKI said it sent him four letters asking for proof of NCD. It says it 
didnt receive what he had sent as he had sent it to an unmonitored UKI email address. UKI 
didnt accept it had done anything wrong regarding cancellation of the policy. But it paid him 
£125 compensation to recognise some poor customer service  plus £25 to cover call costs. 
Mr M says he didnt receive letters UKI claims to have sent. He feels it should have emailed 
him or phoned about the issue  especially as email was his preference and what had been 
used when the policy was set up. He feels UKI didnt do enough to make him aware the 
policy had been cancelled.
Our Investigator said UKI had sent clear instructions about how to provide the NCD proof. 
She felt the policy hadnt been cancelled unfairly. So she didnt recommend UKI do anything 
differently. Mr M didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M hasnt asked this service to look at the customer service issue. So I havent considered 
it. Ive only looked at the cancellation of his policy.
Mr Ms policy terms says UKI can give seven days notice in writing when it has a valid 
reason for cancelling his cover. Included in a list of reasons is failure to provide 
documentation in a way that substantially affects UKIs ability to deal with the policy. So Ive 
considered if UKI cancelled the policy fairly and in line with these terms.
UKI cancelled the policy as Mr M failed to provide proof of his NCD in a satisfactory way. I 
think its likely not having an accurate understanding of Mr Ms NCD would affect UKIs 
ability to deal with the policy. It didnt know, for example, exactly how much to charge him for 
cover. And he hadnt taken up the option to pay the extra required in absence of any NCD. 
It seems Mr M was asked, in late February 2019, by email to provide proof of NCD. That was 
when he first took out the cover. UKI says it then wrote asking for it three times between 
mid-February 2019 and early April 2019. He says he didnt receive these letters. UKIs 
records show them as being sent. It seems Mr M received a fourth and final letter asking for 
the proof. He responded with an attempt to provide it. Based on this I think its likely the first 
three letters were sent.In any event Im not sure it makes much difference. Mr M received the fourth letter. To 
provide the required information Mr M replied to the email UKI sent in mid-February 2019. 
Unfortunately that address was unmonitored so his email wasnt picked up. I cant say that 
was UKIs fault. The original email warned Mr M not to reply to it  it said UKI wouldnt get 
the message. The email also explained the easiest way to provide the proof  it gave a link 
Mr M could use to upload it. 
So it seems Mr M was asked to provide the proof of NCD on at least five occasions. 
Unfortunately, when he finally tried to, he didnt follow the instructions or warnings provided. 
And it seems he didnt take any further steps to make sure UKI had received what hed sent 
 like calling to confirm receipt  despite a letter warning him the policy was to be cancelled. 
I cant say it was UKIs fault that it didnt receive the required NCD information.
And I cant say UKIs decision to cancel the policy was unfair or not made in line with the 
policy terms. The fourth letter seems to have provided more than the seven days notice 
required by the policy.
Mr M says UKI should have told him by email, not by letter, that the policy had been 
cancelled. But I dont agree UKI was at fault for him not being aware of the cancellation. The 
fourth letter said the policy will cancel. He seemed to receive that. He responded to it. 
Unfortunately that response wasnt successful. Mr M didnt take any steps to check if his 
email had been received or if the cancellation was still going ahead. And UKI had already 
been corresponding by letter about the issue. Mr M was aware of that. So I cant say it did 
anything wrong by continuing to do so 
Ive considered Mr Ms other comments  including about him having a condition that can 
make it difficult to understand communication. But I dont think thats a reason to say UKI did 
something wrong. If he wasnt sure about any communication he could have asked someone 
to read the letters or email. Alternatively he could have called UKI to ask for clarity.
So Im not going to require UKI to reinstate the policy, amend any records or do anything 
differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making UK Insurance Limited reinstate Mr Ms policy, 
amend any records or do anything differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman