DRN-4131118
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as LiveLend (LL) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs A applied to LL for a loan. LL approved the application and gave Mrs A a 
loan for £2000 repayable over a term of 24 months with monthly repayments of £99.07.
Mrs A complained that LL had lent to her irresponsibly. She said she didnt think LL had 
carried out adequate checks, and said that if it had done, it wouldve seen that she had other 
debt at the time she applied for the loan.
LL didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before lending 
to Mrs A.
Mrs A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said LL had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mrs A didnt agree. She felt that her bank statements showed that she had a gambling 
problem and showed that she was utilising her overdraft facility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs As complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, LL needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mrs A could sustainably repay what was being lent to her. Theres no set list of 
checks that a lender has to carry out. But checks need to be reasonable and proportionate 
and should have regard to factors such as the amount of the loan, the total sum repayable, 
the term of the loan, the monthly repayments and the consumers individual circumstances.
Mrs A declared monthly income of £3119 when she applied for the loan. LL tried to verify this 
income using a third party tool. However, there was no data available to verify the income 
declared by Mrs A. So instead, LL checked Mrs As credit score and gross annual income to 
satisfy itself that Mrs A earned this level of monthly income.
LL carried out a  credit search and discovered that Mrs A had existing unsecured debt 
repayments of around £845 per month. This was excluding repayment of the new loan. 
Overall (including the new loan) Mrs A would be using around 30% of her income to repay 
debt. The credit check showed that Mrs A was up to date with all payments on her other 
credit accounts. There was one adverse entry  a payment arrangement  in relation to an 
account which was now settled. Mrs A declared living costs of £1200 when she applied for 
the loan. She also declared housing costs of £309 per month. LL used this information to 
calculated that Mrs A had monthly disposable income of around £978 (if housing costs were 
included in the living expenses figure) or £669 (if housing costs werent included in the living 
expenses figure).
Based on what Ive seen, and having regard to the amount of the loan and the level of 
monthly repayment, I thin the checks carried out by LL were reasonable and proportionate. I 
havent seen anything in the information gathered from the checks which meant that LL 
should have carried out further or more detailed checks. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Ive looked at the information 
gathered by LL. Theres nothing to suggest that Mrs A was struggling to repay her existing 
debt or that she was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the new loan. I appreciate that 
Mrs A experienced financial difficulties in late 2019/early 2020 but this was after the date 
when the loan was approved and I dont think LL couldve foreseen that this would happen. 
Ive taken on board what Mrs A has said about her bank statements showing that she had a 
gambling problem. However, theres no obligation on a lender to look at bank statements 
and as Ive already said, I think the checks carried out by LL were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman