DRN-2827303
The complaint
Mr J complains about repeated mistakes made by HSBC UK Bank Plc in the administration 
of his credit card account.
What happened
Mr J told us about a long-running problem with his credit card. This all started when he tried 
to pay the balance off in full. On 5 August, he paid a cheque in at a branch of HSBC, but 
although the cheque was made out for £1,674.11, the full balance due, HSBC only took 
£1,174.11 from Mr Js account. 
Mr J has made repeated efforts to resolve this. When he first complained, HSBC did make 
the additional payment of £500 from Mr Js current account that Mr J wanted, but further 
interest had been incurred on his credit card by then, which HSBC failed to remove. 
HSBC paid Mr J £50 on 30 September, and apologised. As the errors continued through to 
his October statement, he complained again, but HSBC didnt respond to this letter. Mr J 
complained to us in January 2020, and HSBC rang to apologise. It refunded all fees, interest 
and charges, and paid a further £50 as compensation. HSBC also took steps to remove any 
negative data recorded on Mr Js credit file. 
Mr J didnt receive HSBCs letter about this, the email which was dated 25 January seems to 
have been wrongly addressed, and it bounced back. But he did receive another letter saying 
a payment of £10 was overdue. This was sent on 26 January.
HSBC refunded the £12 fee on 19 February, after Mr J had complained yet again. 
HSBC has also clarified that Mr Js credit card was opened before June 2005, so its not 
reporting to credit reference agencies. And that means no negative data has been recorded 
as a result of this problem.
Our investigator said that HSBC had offered Mr J a further £100 to resolve his complaint. He 
said we couldnt comment on why Mr J had been refused credit elsewhere, but he could be 
confident that it wasnt as a result of what HSBC had done. Our investigator thought that 
HSBCs offer was fair.
Mr J said he thought it was measly, considering what had happened, and he wanted an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint. This case then came to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
This has clearly been a frustrating experience for Mr J. He has needed to complain 
repeatedly in order to finally have this issue resolved. During this process he has been 
threatened with an adverse impact on his credit file, if he didnt pay money that he appears 
to have been well aware that he did not owe. 
I think the most important issue here is the possible effect on Mr Js credit file, and on any 
future lending he wants to enter into. I understand his concerns over this, as HSBC has 
written to him to tell him there will be an adverse impact on his file. But its also told us that, 
due to the age of his credit card account, it isnt reporting to credit reference agencies. That 
is what I would expect for a credit card account as old as this. And as Mr J hasnt shown us 
anything to suggest otherwise, I dont think it is likely that Mr Js credit file has been affected. 
Even without affecting his credit file, I can still see that HSBC has made a series of errors, 
and even after it finally seemed to appreciate what had gone wrong, in January 2021, Mr J 
still needed to alert it again to a further wrongly applied charge on his account. But I also 
note that HSBC has paid Mr J £100 in compensation, and has offered a further £100. 
Mr J says this just doesnt reflect the trouble hes been put to. Im not suggesting that this 
payment from HSBC will make the difficulties Mr J has experienced with his card worthwhile. 
I dont doubt that Mr J would very much have preferred not to experience these problems, 
and not to receive any compensation. But I do think a total payment of £200 is in line with 
what Id have awarded in this case, if the offer hadnt already been made. And that means I 
think that HSBCs offer does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So 
thats what Ill award.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must now pay Mr J the remaining £100 in 
compensation which it has offered, if it hasnt done so already, to make a total of £200 paid 
in compensation for this complaint. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman