DRN-3200766
The complaint
Mr B is seeking to recover approximately £10,000 from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS), which he lost from his account as a result of a third-party scam.
RBS says it is not liable for the loss because Mr B unwittingly authorised the payment 
himself  and they could not reasonably have intervened or done more to recoup the 
money from the receiving bank. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every 
detail of what happened here. But in summary, Mr B has been the victim of a scam. In 
July 2020 he was tricked into sending an international payment of £10,015.00 to what he 
believed to be a genuine investment broker operating from Singapore. Hed spoken to 
some colleagues who had invested with the broker already. One said they had even 
realised returns over a number of months of £2,000 to £3,000 per month. This sounded 
appealing as Mr Bs employment contract was coming to an end, so he was persuaded 
to make the investment. However, unbeknownst to Mr B, he sent the money to a 
scammer who was operating a scam investment company. 
The scam came to light in September 2020. Mr B logged into his investment account 
provided by the scammer and saw that whilst his investment had looked like it had been 
making money, all the money including the original investment had disappeared from the 
account. He spoke to his now former colleagues and discovered the same thing had 
happened to them. 
Mr B complained to RBS  he accepted he had made the payment himself but felt RBS 
should have done more to protect him from the scam. In particular, he felt RBS should 
have asked more questions about the payment before processing it, and that if they had 
done so, the scam could have been uncovered. 
RBS looked at what had happened, and didnt think they had done anything wrong. They 
said it was for Mr B to do due diligence or seek independent financial advice before 
sending the payment. They did contact the receiving bank in Singapore to ask for the 
funds to be returned, but as it was an international account it was not governed by the 
same rules as a domestic payment  and the receiving bank confirmed there were no 
remaining funds to return anyway as the beneficiary was no longer their customer. RBS 
also said he would have seen a warning on his online banking when he made the 
payment. So, they would not provide a refund. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so he complained to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened, and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
They recognised that the payment was unusual and out of character for Mr Bs account, 
and that more intervention from RBS would have been appropriate. But they felt 
ultimately, Mr B was likely to have continued with the payment anyway, and so RBS 
ought not to be liable for his losses. Mr B was not satisfied with this answer. He 
disagreed with the assumptions our investigator made, and felt that RBS ought to have 
contacted him and asked further questions, which would have prompted RBS to realise it 
was a scam. He said when he reported the scam company to the FCA they recognised 
that it was a scam within a few minutes of exploring the website. He said that he would 
not have continued with the transaction if they had done so. As a resolution could not be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying that I do believe that Mr B was the victim of a cruel and 
callous fraud. I was saddened to hear of what he was put through. I can tell from the 
evidence we have that this has had a significant impact on Mr B. So, Id like to start by 
offering my sympathies for what he has been put through. 
My role here is to assess RBSs actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold RBS liable for 
Mr Bs loss. So, having considered everything, I am not going to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr B, but I dont think I can 
fairly say that RBS should reimburse him with the money that was unfortunately lost to 
the scammers. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments, even though Mr B 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the 
relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr B is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I 
think RBS should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual and out of character 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of 
fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial hard from fraud. 
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, RBS should have been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions. Ive looked at the activity that took place 
on Mr Bs accounts and a payment of £10,015.00 was unusual and uncharacteristic for 
his account  particularly as it was being sent to a new payee. The nearest value 
payments were generally for under £1,000. And whilst he had sent international 
payments previously, the last one was in 2016 so this was not normal account activity. 
And so, considering all of this, I think this transaction was suitably unusual such that 
RBS ought reasonably to have been concerned about the possibility of fraud or financial 
harm here. Due to the unusual nature of the payment the relevant law, regulations and good 
industry practice required RBS to question Mr B about the transaction and the reasons 
for making it before they agreed to process it on his behalf. Im satisfied that this type of 
scam  an investment scam  wouldve been well-known to banks at the time Mr B made the 
payment. And yet it is common ground that RBS didnt make any contact with Mr B  so 
in my judgement RBS could and should have done more here. This is particularly so, 
given that good industry practice from the time encourages staff to ask questions about 
potentially fraudulent payments in order to test the purpose and legitimacy of the 
payment. Staff should have asked more probing questions such as what the payment 
was for, how he found out about the investment including whether he was cold-called, 
whether he had done sufficient research into the investment company including whether 
they were a regulated company, whether Mr B had checked if the Financial Conduct 
Authority had published any concerns about the firm, whether he had received any 
paperwork and details on the expected returns. Whilst we cannot know exactly what 
would have happened here had Mr B been further questioned, I think on balance it is 
likely that he would have gone ahead with the payment even if RBS had asked more 
probing questions. And without the benefit of hindsight, I dont think there was any clear 
indication that this was a scam, such that RBS ought to have refused to make this 
payment altogether. Ill explain why. 
We will never be totally sure what would have happened if RBS contacted Mr B, so I 
have had to decide what I think was most likely to have happened if they had contacted 
him, based on the evidence we have, and on the balance of probabilities. Mr B wasnt 
given any cover story from the scammers to provide to RBS if they had contacted him  
he believed he was making a genuine investment and so I see no reason to believe he 
would have told RBS anything different. So, I think it is likely he would have explained 
that he would have told them that he:
was doing some Forex trading; 
had found the trader through his old colleagues  and not, for example, by being 
cold called or finding the trader online;
had been told by his old colleague that they had realised some good returns  
and perhaps specified that these were as large as £2,000-£3,000 a month; 
had researched the company by checking their website, which looked alright to 
him. 
may not have checked whether they were a regulated firm here  but understood 
that they were registered in Singapore. (I say this because Mr B couldnt recall if 
he knew whether they were regulated in the UK at all). 
So what I have to think about is whether RBS ought reasonably to have recognised that 
Mr B was at risk of financial harm if they had learned these things  or whether they 
should have been able to offer advice to Mr B that would have helped him recognise that 
he was falling victim to a scam  such that the payment would have been stopped by the 
bank or withdrawn by Mr B. 
I think the information Mr B would have given them would have ruled out some of the 
common hallmarks of an investment scam. I say this because unlike in a large 
proportion of investment scams he: 
was not called out of the blue with an investment opportunity that was too good 
to be true; 
made the decision to get involved in the investment himself, after speaking to colleagues who had no vested interest in him making an investment  as 
opposed to a lot of investment scams where the scammer persuades the victim 
to invest directly; 
had researched the companys website, and saw nothing of concern there; 
may not have looked into whether the company was regulated here by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), but if Mr B had been prompted by RBS to do 
so, or if RBS had done so themselves, there would not have yet been a warning 
listed on the FCA website for this scam broker  one was uploaded about six 
months after the payment was made. 
was told he could get very high returns  rather than having them promised or 
guaranteed as is often the case in such scams. And whilst a colleague was 
receiving high returns  its not clear that Mr B could have provided sufficient 
details second hand or through documentation to show whether or not these 
were unrealistic returns. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think there was anything that RBS could have 
uncovered from a conversation with Mr B to alert them to the scam. And I dont think the 
kind of questions they should have asked would have uncovered this scam  the 
testimony of a friend or colleague that they have received returns can be hard to 
overcome. 
Mr B argues that whilst he hadnt seen anything out of the ordinary when he reviewed 
their website as an inexperienced investor, he thought RBS would have if they had 
checked the website when he was trying to make the payment. He explained that he felt 
this way because having realised he had been the victim of a scam, he contacted the 
FCA who looked at the website and said it looked like a scam within about two minutes. 
And so, with the financial knowledge that RBS have, they too would have been able to 
see this. But I dont agree. When Mr B spoke to the FCA, they had the benefit of 
hindsight as Mr B was already aware he hadnt received his money back. But even if 
RBS had looked at the website, it is not clear they could have recognised the scam. 
Afterall, Mr B could have assured them his colleague was receiving returns. And whilst 
parts of the website werent even working  an incompetent website does not 
necessarily mean a broker is a scammer. It may have prompted them to look at the FCA 
website  but as I have already outlined, the warning would not have appeared at the 
time of the transaction. So, I cannot agree that this was enough to recognise the scam 
either. 
Ive also considered the attempts by RBS to recover the funds Mr B sent to the scammers. 
Overseas accounts are not subject to the same rules and regulations as UK based accounts. 
And from what I know of these types of scams, and the attempted recall of international 
payments, the return of any funds was highly unlikely  funds are often removed long before 
the scam is uncovered, and even if any remain the receiving banks arent obligated to return 
the funds. Nonetheless, I have seen that after the discovery of the scam, RBS did notify the 
beneficiary bank of the scam in an attempt to recover the funds. Unfortunately, the 
beneficiary bank informed RBS that the beneficiary no longer banked with them and so they 
had no access to the scammers funds to return them to RBS and Mr B. So, I am satisfied 
RBS could not have done any more to recover the funds. 
In summary, I understand that Mr B believes RBS should have gone further and should 
have known or done sufficient checks to learn that the broker was not legitimate  but I 
am afraid I dont agree. I would not expect RBS to be able to identify every scam  and 
this is more difficult when payments are going abroad. I would expect them to look out 
for the hallmarks of scams and recognise these red flags, but I am not persuaded these red flags existed in this case. I would also expect them to advise their customers about 
the type of checks they can do themselves, and the risks involved in sending money 
abroad  and I dont think if they had done this, the outcome would have been any 
different. So, whilst I dont doubt that Mr B has been the victim of a cruel and callous 
scam  it is ultimately the scammers who are at fault here, and I do not find that it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask RBS to refund Mr Bs losses. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman