DRN-2267062
The complaint
Mr V complains that DAM Finance Limited (trading as Payza.com) refused or failed to 
process his withdrawal of over £900.
What happened
Mr V had an account with Payza.com. In March 2018 he tried to withdraw over £900 from his 
account online, but he never received it. At the time, Payza.com was the trading name of a 
company called Damaras Limited; that company has since changed its name to Peridea 
Limited and then changed it again to DAM Finance Limited, which is its current name. For 
now I will just refer to it as the company. Until 13 July 2018 the company was regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), but on that date the FCA revoked its permissions. 
Nevertheless, the Financial Ombudsman Service still retains jurisdiction to consider 
complaints against the company about events which occurred prior to that date.
Mr V made several attempts to contact the company about his withdrawal, but he never 
received any response. Eventually, in August 2019, he brought a complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators made repeated attempts to contact the company, but without 
success. So she concluded that in the absence of any explanation for why Mr V had not 
received his money, his complaint should be upheld. She recommended that the company 
pay Mr V £902.72, plus simple interest on that sum at eight per cent a year from 23 March 
2018 to the date the money is paid to him. She also recommended that the company pay 
Mr V another £200 for his trouble.
Since no response was received from the company, this complaint has been referred to me 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately it is clear that Mr V has been the victim of a scam. The United States 
Department of Justice has taken down the Payza.com website, which now redirects to a 
page on its own website which explains that in July 2020 the director of the company 
pleaded guilty to money laundering charges.1
I will therefore uphold this complaint, and will make an order in the same terms as the 
investigators recommendation. That order is enforceable in court under Schedule 17 to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. However, it seems unlikely that my order will be 
complied with, since the companys only director appears to be in custody in the United 
States. Also, although the company has not been dissolved, it is no longer trading and its 
accounts have not been updated since 2017, so I do not know if it still has any assets. 
1 See https://www.payza.com or https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/victim-witness-assistance/obopay-
payza 
Therefore there is a real risk that even if legal action is taken against the company, this 
might turn out to be fruitless.
I would therefore suggest that Mr Vs best chances of recovering his money may lie with the 
US Department of Justice (see their website for how to make a claim, although this might 
only relate to the American companies and not necessarily DAM Finance Limited). 
Alternatively, once the company has dissolved (which has not yet occurred), the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme might be able to help (see www.fscs.org.uk). (When the 
company is dissolved, this will be reported on the Companies House website at https://find-
and-update.company-information.service.gov.uk/company/08029472.)
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order DAM Finance Limited, trading as 
Payza.com, to pay Mr V the following sums:
£902.72, plus simple interest on that amount at the rate of eight per cent a year from 
23 March 2018 until the date it is paid, and
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman