DRN-3487304
The complaint
Mr B has complained that ReAssure Limited failed to review his policy in 2017.
What happened
The facts are not disputed. In summary ReAssure agreed that it had failed to review Mr
Bs policy in 2017. Mr B said that had his policy been reviewed he may have considered
other options and not continued with the policy.
ReAssure accepted this. It offered to backdate the surrender value of Mr Bs policy to 2017
and to refund the premiums paid after that date should he wish to cancel. ReAssure also
offered £200 in compensation to Mr B for the inconvenience the error caused him.
I issued a provisional decision in this matter and said as follows:
When Mr B advised ReAssure that he might have acted differently had his policy been
reviewed ReAssure made the offer set out above. I find that was a fair offer. However Mr B
didnt cancel the policy, he continued with it and it is still in force. I do understand that he had
good reason for this but nevertheless in those circumstances the offer to refund premiums
didnt apply. It follows that no refund is due.
I accept that it would have been frustrating and upsetting when Mr B learned that he had
missed a review and I agree that compensation was due for the distress and inconvenience
that caused Mr B. ReAssure offered £200  I find that was a fair sum in the circumstances
and note that it has been paid.
I explained that I was not minded to uphold the complaint and invited both parties to let me 
have any further comments or evidence.
Mr B responded that he was disappointed with my provisional findings. He felt that ReAssure 
had been able to take his money without any real consequences. He reiterated his complaint 
that ReAssure took premiums without telling him of the price increase - which it was required 
to do, offered only £200 in compensation and offered to refund premiums only if he 
cancelled the policy. He felt that this was attaching strings. Mr B also reiterated that he had 
no confidence that ReAssure would have paid him back his premiums, which led to his 
hesitancy to switch schemes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do note Mr Bs disappointment, but nothing he now says persuades me to depart from my 
provisional findings. If theres something I havent mentioned it isnt because Ive ignored it. I 
havent, everything has been considered. But I have focused on the key issue. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach  it reflects the informal nature of our service. 
ReAssure admitted it had failed to conduct a review and offered to rectify the situation by 
putting Mr B in the position he would have been in had the review been carried out. That is, if 
Mr B wouldnt have continued with the policy he could cancel it and the premiums paid would 
be refunded. I remain satisfied that this was fair. But the offer was conditional on Mr B 
cancelling the policy  it wasnt to retain the policy and also have the premiums refunded. 
I understand that Mr B had lost confidence in ReAssure and wasnt confident that he would 
receive a refund, although I note that the compensation of £200 was paid to him shortly after 
ReAssure issued its final response. The function of this service isnt to punish financial 
businesses where errors have occurred but to ensure that consumers, here Mr B, have been 
treated fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. As I remain satisfied that the offer 
made by ReAssure in response to the error it made was fair, I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman