DRN-3739614
The complaint
S complains about how Amazon Payments UK Limited, trading as Amazon Payments has 
handled their business account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both S and Lloyds. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
S had an Amazon sellers account. Amazon contacted S to request further information.
S was unhappy with the time Amazon took to complete this process and complained. 
Amazon didnt uphold the complaint and S referred their concerns to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld and as 
S remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. I wont comment on every 
interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. 
What my decision wont consider
As outlined by our Investigator, the other main issue (the Valid Tracking Rate system) raised 
as part of this complaint doesnt fall under our Services jurisdiction. 
S has referred to some changes later took place to S business whilst the knowing your 
customer process was ongoing - that meant further information was required by Amazon and 
this prolonged the process. S has told our investigator that they didnt raise these delays with 
Amazon  so my decision wont address this issue.
Knowing your customer 
As an authorised UK payments institution, Amazon must take responsible steps to verify 
their customers and their business activities. Often this process is referred to as Knowing 
your customer (KYC). In the relevant agreements here, this was set out:
1.4 Verification. We may require you to provide additional information to verify your 
and/or your business identity as a condition of providing the Service to you or before 
we permit you to receive or transfer funds from your Account
5.3 Suspension or Termination by Us..Without limiting the foregoing, we may 
suspend the Service and block access to your Account (including without limitation 
the funds in your Account) if (a) you have violated the terms of this Agreement, (b) 
we determine that you pose an unacceptable risk to us, (c) you provide or have 
provided false, incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading information (including without 
limitation any registration information) or otherwise engage in fraudulent or illegal 
conduct, (d) we have security concerns regarding your Account, including your 
Credentials, or (e) we suspect unauthorized or fraudulent use of your Account or any 
payment information in your Account..
I find that it was reasonable of Amazon to request further information from S about their 
business and business activities. Having reviewed the communication from Amazon, Im 
satisfied that they were clear in what they asked S for and the likely consequences should 
the required information not be received at each stage. I recognise that KYC has caused S 
inconvenience, but Amazon were acting in capacity as a responsible payments institution. 
The delays 
I accept this process took far longer than either party wouldve liked. Amazon say that some 
of the delays caused were because of their resourcing issues. But Ive kept in mind that the 
KYC process was taking place against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic which 
caused unprecedented challenges for businesses as they tried to continue to offer their 
services to customers.
Amazon in particular saw unprecedented demand for their services from businesses and 
consumers. Its not the role of our Service to tell businesses how to operate or recruit. 
But I have then considered the overall time taken whilst KYC was ongoing. Having carefully 
considered the various information requests Amazon made to S, Im satisfied that theyve 
acted fairly, reasonably, and proportionately. For example; some of the information didnt 
meet the required standard or what was asked for, other information was out of date by the 
time it had been reviewed. Overall, I dont find it was unreasonable of Amazon to request 
further information on certain occasions  based on outstanding questions they had about 
what had been provided . 
Ive also considered what S has told us about the impact of this experience on their 
business. In particular, that they say they couldnt trade at what was usually their busiest 
time of the year. Whilst this was unfortunate, Im satisfied that Amazon have acted in line 
with the terms of this agreement and - in this particular case they dont need to compensate 
S: 
5.4 Effect of Termination. Without limiting Section 9, we will not be liable to you for 
compensation, reimbursement, or damages of any kind, direct or indirect, including 
damages on account of the loss of prospective profits, anticipated sales, goodwill, or 
on account of expenditures, investments, or commitments in connection with any 
termination or suspension of the Service.
My decision will no doubt disappoint S, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve their dispute with Amazon.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman