DRN-3992124
The complaint
Mr H complains that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) gave him unclear 
information about the cover available under his legal expenses insurance policy and unfairly 
declined his claim.
Where I refer to F&L, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his policy to take legal action against his employers for discrimination. 
He says F&L were unclear about the policy requirements and whether he had freedom to 
choose his own legal representation, which led to him incurring costs with his own solicitor. 
His claim was subsequently declined because it was disproportionate to pursue. 
Mr H says F&L failed to explain what it meant by prospects of success and proportionality as 
well as the requirements for panel and non-panel solicitors. He says it shouldve taken extra 
care to ensure he fully understood, especially as hed told them he suffers from a mental 
health disability. He raised a complaint.
F&L rejected the complaint, so Mr H brought it to our service. And our Investigator upheld it. 
She said F&L shouldve provided proportionate funding up to the value of the claim. She also 
agreed that F&L had used jargon which it had failed to explain, leaving Mr H confused. So 
she recommended that F&L make a contribution to Mr Hs legal fees and pay compensation.
Mr H accepted the recommendations, but F&L didnt. So the complaint was passed to me 
and I issued the following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Ive reached a different conclusion to our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Unclear information
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs legal expenses insurance policy says:
The authorised representative nominated and appointed by us or the claims 
administrator will act on your behalf and you must accept the nomination. If we agree 
legal proceedings should be commenced through court or it is mandatory for you to 
be represented by a solicitor you may choose an alternative solicitor to act for you 
however, you must obtain our/the claims administrators written agreement for them 
to become your authorised representative.
Mr H complains that F&L didnt make it clear that he wasnt entitled to use a solicitor of his 
own choice.
Ive listened to and read the transcripts of the calls Mr H had with F&L when he made his 
claim. On the first call, Mr H tells the advisor that he wants to start proceedings against [his 
employers] and that he has got a law firm in mind. The advisor explains that the policy 
requires Mr H to use a solicitor that [F&L] would appoint, at least until the point of issuing 
court proceedings. Mr H responds that hes going to issue legal proceedings straight 
away. 
Later in the call, the advisor queries whether Mr H has submitted an ET1  which is the issue 
of court proceedings in an employment case. Mr H responds that he hasnt, but that he 
wants to issue one asap. 
Based on this, the advisor has treated Mr Hs claim as being at the point of issue which 
enables him to choose his own solicitor under the policy terms. He asked Mr H to get his 
solicitor to email over the full details of the claim so that it could be assessed. 
I dont think this was incorrect given the information Mr H had provided. It was clear he 
wanted to use his own solicitor and as hed said he was at the point of issue, it was 
reasonable for the advisor to accept that freedom of choice was available under the policy. 
But I do think the advisor shouldve clarified at this point that the policy isnt going to cover 
any legal costs until the claim is accepted under the policy, so the costs incurred for Mr Hs 
solicitor to provide the claim details will be his responsibility. If the advisor had done so, Mr H 
may have decided to submit the claim himself or consider the other options available to him, 
like using a panel firm. I think compensation should be paid here, which Ill expand on later.
The advisor goes on to explain the policy requirements that a claim must fall within cover, 
have prospects of success, and be proportionate to pursue. Mr H responds saying No, I 
understand.
Mr H complains that the advisor didnt explain what these terms meant, and that extra care 
shouldve been taken to ensure he fully understood. 
Generally I agree its important a business avoids using industry jargon / terminology when 
talking to or writing to its customers  or if it needs to, it provides an explanation of what it 
means  to ensure the customers understand how the policy works and what is required.
But Mr H said he understood. And given his job title, which hed provided earlier in the call, I 
think it was reasonable for the advisor to be satisfied that Mr H did indeed understand. If Mr 
H didnt, he only had to say so and the advisor wouldve had the opportunity to explain.
Claim rejection
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs legal expenses insurance policy says:
Your insurance does not cover professional fees and/or defendants costs:
c) where, in our/the claims administrators opinion, the value/amount in 
dispute is disproportionate to the time and professional fees involved in its 
pursuit,
h) where, in our, the claims administrators or the authorised representatives 
opinion, your claim does not have a reasonable prospect of success.
These conditions are a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and I dont think 
theyre unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear the cost if advised their claim was unlikely to succeed or that their legal costs 
would be more than the amount they would recover in court. And I wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either.
F&L asked Mr Hs chosen solicitors for their opinion on the prospects of the claim being 
successful, as well as an estimate of the likely award and the costs/disbursements to pursue 
the claim to conclusion. 
The solicitors said they were unable to say whether the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects 
of success at that time as it was too early to say. They said the likely award for injury to 
feelings would be around £15,000, but that if Mr H was actually or constructively dismissed, 
that could increase the value of the claim depending on how quickly Mr H was able to secure 
alternative employment. They estimated their costs at £30,000 plus VAT. 
Based on this assessment, I think it was fair for F&L to conclude that the policy terms hadnt 
been met. I say this because prospects of success have not been confirmed as being 
reasonable (defined as at least 51% by the policy) and an estimate of the likely costs to 
pursue the claim outweigh the estimated award. So I dont think F&L has acted unfairly here 
based on the information it was provided with. If, as the claim evolves, the solicitors opinion 
on prospects or proportionality alters in any way they  or Mr H  should let F&L know and 
Id expect it to reconsider cover under the policy.
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I dont think F&L gave unclear information on whether or not Mr H could 
use his own solicitor, nor do I think it declined his claim unfairly. But I do think it couldve 
done more to clarify that Mr Hs legal fees werent covered by the policy until the claim had 
been accepted meaning that the cost of his solicitor submitting the claim would be his 
responsibility. Whilst Mr Hs solicitors wouldve always needed to have provided their opinion 
on prospects and proportionality, Mr H may have been able to reduce his legal fees by 
submitting his claim evidence himself. For this, I think its reasonable that F&L pay Mr H 
compensation of £100.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party had any further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the complaint in part and direct Financial & Legal 
Insurance Company Ltd to pay Mr H compensation of £100. This should be paid within 28 
days of Mr Hs acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman