DRN-3630547
The complaint
Mr J has complained, via his representatives, that he was advised by Read IFA (now 
Retirement Direct Limited or RDL) to transfer out of his Scottish Equitable s32 pension to a 
personal pension. And this caused him financial loss, for which he would like to be 
compensated.
What happened
Mr J approached Read IFA (now Retirement Direct Limited, or RDL) in 2007 to discuss 
accessing money from his s32 pension. A fact find was completed with their adviser, 
following which a report was prepared. These were both signed and dated by Mr J and his 
partner. 
The fact find and report both stated that Mr J wanted to access funds from his pension to put 
central heating and new windows into the house he lived in with his partner (but which was 
owned solely by her). 
The s32 pension was valued at around £30,000 with a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) 
of £2,373 pa from age 65, about 15 years later. A s32 is a special type of pension funded by 
transferring out of an occupational scheme. The pension provider is responsible for paying 
the GMP, and if the investments do well there might be a surplus to provide additional 
benefits. The fact find also recorded a similar sum in a cash ISA. The fact find recorded that 
Mr J was not concerned about reducing his retirement income as he would have enough 
savings by then.
The first report, dated 19 June 2007, repeated the personal circumstances from the fact find, 
including the objective. The report discussed other ways of raising funds, including 
borrowing or accessing his savings, and ultimately advised him to consider using his 
savings, or if he didnt want to do that then to consider borrowing rather than accessing his 
pension. The report advised leaving his s32 pension intact until age 65. 
It went on to explain that Mr J rejected the recommendations, so he had asked the firm to 
explain the options with his Scottish Equitable pension. The report forecast that transferring 
and taking the lump sum would reduce likely income in retirement from the scheme from 
£2,373 pa to £1,412 pa. It also set out the guarantees and death benefits that might be lost. 
The report showed that Mr J and his partner were already short of their retirement income 
need and repeated the advice to keep the s32 pension intact until normal retirement date 
(age 65). The reasons given were that transferring would reduce an already insufficient 
retirement income, his objective was not an overwhelming need and he had viable 
alternatives. 
On 28 June Mr J signed a handwritten letter stating I fully understand the 
disadvantagesbut it is my decision and I wish to proceed. And understand that it is against 
your advice.
RDL provided another report dated 11 July which repeated the advice to leave the pension 
alone, as well as the other information on retirement shortfalls and alternative sources of 
funds from the first report. It also stated that the report was based on the information in the 
fact find which you and your partner have signed and dated to confirm is accurate.
Mr J added a handwritten note to this report, saying that he wanted maximum income rather 
than no income from his new drawdown pension.
Finally, this report recommended a receiving scheme and fund selection. 
In 2021 Mr J complained to RDL via his representatives about the transfer out of the s32 
pension. The basis of the complaint was that he had been advised to transfer, he was not 
aware he was being treated as insistent, nor of the implications of this. The complaint also 
said that the statement cannot afford to save from the fact find contradicts the statement 
that he expected to have enough savings by retirement but that the contradiction was not 
resolved.  
In their response, RDL said that they thought the complaint was time-barred as the advice 
took place in 2007 and he was provided with sufficient risk warnings at the time. Failing time-
barring they rejected the merits of the complaint on the basis that they had not, in fact, 
advised Mr J to transfer, they made him aware of the risks and disadvantages of doing so, 
and he acted against their advice.
As a first step to this service considering the issue, an ombudsman determined that the case 
was not time-barred as there had been no event since 2007 that would have made Mr J 
reasonably aware that he had reason to complain, and that therefore the complaint was one 
this service could look at.
Our investigator found that RDL had advised him not to transfer and that he did so in the 
knowledge that he was acting against advice. The investigator said the there was nothing 
more the business needed to do.
On 22 June 2022, via his representatives, Mr J rejected our investigators view. He now said 
that there had been calls between him and his adviser in which he was prompted what to 
say, for example that he wanted new windows, and that he was also told what to write in his 
handwritten note. He said that he actually wanted money to pay for his couriers insurance 
and for repairs to his partners car, which would cost £1,600 in total. He also said that he did 
not have £30,000 in savings, but £2,000. His representative questioned whether a 
reasonable man would jeopardise his retirement income if he had savings, and whether he 
had actually received the reports. 
As Mr J did not accept our investigators opinion, the case was referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another ombudsman has already issued a decision saying the complaint was made within 
time and I agree with that so I will not revisit the reasons here. My decision will focus on the 
merits of the case. 
I agree with our investigator that the business need do nothing more. I appreciate that Mr J 
will be disappointed with my decision, so I hope that I can explain clearly why I have made 
that decision after carefully weighing up all of the evidence.The issues I need to decide on relate to whether RDL advised Mr J to transfer or not; if not 
whether Mr J knew that he was acting against advice, and what the implications were of 
doing so; I also need to consider the more recent allegations that Mr J was prompted what to 
say, that the advice was based on incorrect information, and whether he received the 
reports. 
The first part of Mr Js complaint was that he was advised to transfer. Both reports clearly 
state that Mr J should leave his pension alone until his normal retirement age, because he 
was already short of retirement income and could not afford to reduce his income any 
further. The reports make it clear that transferring and drawing cash will reduce his 
retirement income. I accept that there is a recommendation for the receiving scheme but I do 
not agree with Mr Js representatives that this is confusing. This approach mirrors the 
insistent client process later introduced by the FCA, successor to the regulator at the time 
of Mr Js transfer. So in relation to this issue, I find that RDL did not advise Mr J to transfer 
out of his s32 pension.
The second part of the complaint is that Mr J did not know that he was acting against advice 
and was unaware that he was an insistent client or what that meant. 
I have already said that both reports advise him not to access his pension. Then there is the 
handwritten letter, dated 28 June, where Mr J says that he knew he was acting against 
advice, understood the disadvantages and wanted to proceed. I cannot see why Mr J would 
write and/or sign such a letter if he knew it to be untrue, so I find that he did know he was 
acting against advice.
Mr J says via his representatives that he did not know what it meant to be classified as an 
insistent client nor was he provided with a definition of what that meant. I agree with our 
investigator that this not material because he was aware that he was acting against advice. 
The current regulator, the FCA, defined insistent client in 2016 and published handbook 
guidance in 2018 for how firms should deal with clients who wanted to act against advice. 
Broadly, this guidance is that the adviser should make a recommendation and explain their 
reasons, get acknowledgement from the client that they want to act against the advice, and 
that it is their decision to do so.
I think it would be unfair to expect a business to meet standards that were not in place until 
many years later. Nevertheless, in substance, the business did meet what this guidance 
would have later asked of them. They advised Mr J to leave his s32 pension alone because 
of the negative effect on his retirement income, because there were alternatives and 
because his objective was not an overwhelming need; following that, they obtained 
acknowledgement from Mr J that he was acting against advice, on his own decision, in the 
firm of the 28 June letter. 
So my decision on the second point is that Mr J knew that he was acting against advice, and 
what the implications of his actions were. 
Mr J also raised the issue that the fact find contained contradictory information. It said the he 
and his partner were unable to save which contradicted his statement that he was 
unconcerned about the reduction in retirement income as he would have enough savings by 
the time of his retirement. The fact find, which Mr J and his partner both signed, shows that 
they were saving in two ways - £3,000 a year to the Cash ISA and 22% of his partners 
income into her occupational pension. So I find that, although there is some contradiction, 
the weight of the evidence is in favour of them being able to save. 
After the investigators view was issued to both parties, Mr J provided some more information through his representatives and I think that information needs to be considered 
carefully. 
The representatives say that the handwritten letter was ambiguous; it did not say that Mr J 
was being treated as insistent and did not negate RDLs responsibility to ensure that he 
understood what would be lost by transferring. 
I dont agree that the letter was ambiguous. It clearly says that Mr J knew he was acting 
against advice. I cant see any reason why Mr J would sign a letter saying that if he did not 
agree with what it said. 
As to whether he was described as insistent or not, I have already said that I do not think 
that actual term insistent is what matters, only that he was aware that he was acting against 
advice; and I find that he was aware of that. I also think that RDL did fulfil their responsibility 
to ensure that Mr J understood what would be lost by transferring. 
Mr J also now says that he was prompted what to say, and what to write in his letter. He 
says that some of the information on which the advice was based was incorrect  that he did 
not have £30,000 in savings and that he did not want the money for central heating and 
windows. He says he actually needed £1,600 for courier insurance and repairs to his 
partners car and had £2,000 in savings. He also said that he has no recollection of receiving 
the reports.
RDL has provided documentary evidence, signed by Mr J, confirming the information that he 
now says was incorrect. Since we are now some 15 years away from the events in question, 
I have to give more weight to the documentary evidence from the time.
I cannot see any reason why Mr J or his partner would sign documents they knew to be 
false. There is a handwritten note on the second report, which appears to be in the same 
handwriting as the letter of 28 June, and which says that he wanted the maximum income, 
rather than no income. I think this note shows that it is more likely than not that Mr J saw the 
report and read it carefully. 
Also, if Mr Js objectives and savings were as he says and not what was recorded, then I can 
see why he might not want to use up the bulk of his savings to meet these objectives. I 
agree with our investigator that if he had much less in the way of savings then he would be 
even more inclined to use his pension. So I think that the evidence shows that Mr J would 
have accessed his pension anyway, so I dont think that the outcome would be any different.
In addition to what has already been discussed, the firm has provided us with copies of 
notes of meetings and telephone calls, all of which support what is said in the fact find and 
reports. So, considering everything, I cannot see enough evidence to support what Mr J 
says.
In summary, I find that Mr J acted against advice and with sufficient knowledge of the 
implications of doing so. I dont think that RDL did anything substantially wrong in relation to 
the transfer his Mr Js s32.
My final decision
Since I think that Retirement Direct Limited acted fairly, I am not going to require them to do 
anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman