DRN-2186358
The complaint
Mr D complains about five short term loans he took out with Ferratum UK Limited,  
(Ferratum), which he said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on 
Mr Ds behalf by a firm of solicitors. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken 
by Mr D.
What happened
Mr D took out loans under several running account credit facilities (Loans 1 to 4 below) and 
one short term loan (Loan 5 below) with Ferratum between February 2016 and 
January 2018.  All the loans have been repaid. A summary of the loans is shown below  the 
details have been obtained from Mr Ds bank statements. So, the dates may not accord 
exactly with Ferratums own loan records which we dont appear to have received.
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 20/2/16 25/3/16 £200
2. 29/3/16 2/5/16 £250
3. 3/5/16 26/5/16 £300
4. 19/8/16 26/11/16 £200
5. 19/1/18 24/2/18 £100
Ferratum said that it had asked Mr D for his income and carried out credit checks before 
providing all the loans. It had also asked Mr D for his expenses before giving Loan 5. As a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered in its final response letter to refund Mr D £100 in full and final 
settlement of his complaint. 
Mr D rejected Ferratums offer.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He also noted that 
Ferratums offer in its final response letter had been withdrawn. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.  
Mr provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr D and to Ferratum on 11 August 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when Ferratum lent to Mr D the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I said there might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to 
establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ds complaint.
I noted that Loans 1 to 4 were provided under several running account credit facilities. 
Ferratum had provided us with the running account credit agreements Mr D entered into with 
it for Loans 1,2 and 4 and their terms appeared to be very similar. The credit agreement for 
Loan 3 hadnt been supplied but I could see that it was possible that the loan might have 
been provided under the running account agreement Mr D had entered into on                    
29 March 2016. Each running account agreement entitled Mr D to draw down cash up to a 
credit limit of £500 provided any previous drawdowns had been repaid. The drawdowns 
were to be repaid on Mr Ds salary date between 7 and 37 days from the date of drawdown. 
Loan 5 was provided under a fixed term loan agreement under which the loan of £100 was 
to be repaid by 23 February 2018. Ferratum hadnt provided this service with the loan amounts, drawdown dates and 
repayment dates. But I had seen these on Mr Ds bank statements. So, I said that the loan 
table above might not be entirely accurate as to dates and Ferratum needed to use its own 
records for redress purposes.
Ferratum said it had approved the five loans after conducting up to date credit checks with a 
credit reference agency along with its own internal credit policy checks. It had only provided 
this service with a copy of its credit checks carried out for Loan 5. It said that the credit report 
as well as confirming name, address and the presence of any adverse public data also 
showed payment history on Mr Ds credit commitments. Ferratum also said that if Mr D had 
loans or arrears with other companies who did not share/subscribe to the same credit 
reference agency as it, then these debts would have been invisible to it. It had acted on the 
information provided and the facts available to it. 
Ferratum also said that Mr D had told it that he earned £3,001 a month when he applied for 
the loans. As a business it said it was able to rely on the information provided by a consumer 
to make a lending decision. The affordability checks it did were proportionate to the amounts 
borrowed.
Ferratum asked Mr D for his expenses before providing Loan 5. These were £1,900.
Mr D had provided us with his credit report which covered the loans. I noted that this referred 
to numerous loans.
Loans 1 to 4
The running account credit agreements Ferratum had provided to us show that Mr D was 
approved to borrow up to £500. So, if he borrowed this amount, his maximum monthly 
repayment would have been £648. Mr D borrowed less than the maximum amount for   
Loans 1 to 4, but I said that Ferratum wasnt to know this when it approved these loans. I 
thought it was fair and reasonable that Ferratum ought to have considered the maximum 
amount payable under its credit agreements when approving the loans.
I thought £648 was a significant proportion of Mr Ds declared income of £3,001 and should 
have prompted more checks. I noted that Ferratum had said that it conducted up to date 
credit checks before all the loans which showed the payment history on Mr Ds credit 
commitments and it had acted on the information provided. But it no longer had a copy of its 
credit checks.
Mr D had provided his bank statements and credit report to us. I noted the credit report was 
provided by the same credit reference agency as Ferratum said it used. So, I would have 
reasonably anticipated that Ferratums credit checks and Mr Ds credit report might have 
shown similar information. 
Id carefully reviewed Mr Ds bank statements and credit report. It was clear that Mr D was 
taking out numerous short term loans around the time of his applications for Loans 1 to 4 
and in the months before his applications. At the time of Loan 1, he had nine other short 
term loans. He had ten other short term loans before each of Loans 2 and 4 and seven short 
term loans before Loan 3.  So, I thought it was likely that Ferratum would have seen some if 
not all of these short term loans in its credit checks given the extent of them. 
Id also seen that Mr D was near the credit limits on his credit cards. It was also clear from 
the bank statements that Mr D had a very large overdraft that wasnt improving. I thought it 
was likely that Ferratum would also have seen all this from its credit checks.On balance, I thought it was likely that Ferratums credit checks would have shown that Mr D 
was having significant difficulties managing his money and unlikely to be able to sustainably 
repay Loans 1 to 4. So, I didnt think Ferratum should have given Loans 1 to 4 to Mr D.
Loan 5
I noted that there was a significant break in lending between Loans 4 and 5. So, I thought it 
would have been reasonable to treat Loan 5 as the start of a new chain of borrowing. Mr D 
borrowed £100. The repayment amount of £128 for Loan 5 mightve looked affordable on   
Mr Ds disposable income. But I noted that Ferratums credit checks before Loan 5 showed 
that Mr D had 15 active credit accounts and that 17 accounts had been opened in the 
previous six months. I thought the large amount of active credit accounts ought to have 
caused Ferratum some concerns. 
Although Ferratum didnt need to do full checks when Loan 5 was arranged, it did need to 
consider and act on the information it had before lending to Mr D.  It ought to have been 
aware that Mr D was already committed to repaying a large number of credit accounts. At 
the very least I thought the information it saw should have prompted a responsible lender to 
do further checks before lending. This wouldve helped to build a clearer picture of Mr Ds 
financial situation. Had Ferratum done so, it would have become aware that Mr D had at 
least another 11 short term loans which were repayable at the same time as Loan 5. I had 
seen these on Mr Ds own credit report and bank statements. I thought it was reasonable to 
say that Mr D was having problems managing his money. So as a responsible lender, I didnt 
think Ferratum should have given Loan 5 to Mr D.
I appreciated that Mr D had repaid his loans. But Id said that successfully repaying his loans 
didnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable way.
Subject to any further representations by Mr D or Ferratum my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint and say that Ferratum should put things right as shown 
below.
Putting things right  what Ferratum needs to do
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on Loans 1 to 5;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove adverse entries about Loans 1 to 5 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr D hasnt provided any further information in response to my provisional decision. 
Ferratum responded to my provisional decision to say that its credit agreements for Loans 1 
to 4 showed the maximum loan amount as these agreements were running credit facilities. 
But it didnt automatically mean that at any point Mr D would have been approved for £500. 
Every application was subject to a credit check and this determined the maximum loan 
amount it could offer. 
Ferratum also said that there were significant gaps in lending between Loans 3 and 4 and 
Loans 4 and 5. It approved these loans after conducting up to date credit checks. The credit 
report as well as confirming name, address and the presence of any adverse public data 
showed payment history on credit commitments - bank accounts, loans, credit cards, 
mortgages and other finance agreements. The checks included an affordability report which would indicate if an individual had a high unsecured debt to income ratio and additionally it 
would predict the probability of an individual becoming overindebted. If Mr D had loans or 
arrears with other companies who didnt share/subscribe to the same agency as Ferratum 
then these debts would have been invisible to it. It acted on the information provided and the 
facts available to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Ferratum has explained that every loan application was subject to a credit check 
and that Mr D wouldnt automatically be approved for £500. I also note the lender said that 
its credit checks showed Mr Ds payment history on credit commitments  bank accounts, 
loans, credit cards, mortgages and other finance agreements. 
I dont know the extent of the information Ferratum actually saw on its credit checks for 
Loans 1 to 4 as it hasnt provided any information from its credit checks to this service. But I 
note that the lender says it took Mr Ds payment history on credit commitments into account 
and considered an affordability report which would indicate if an individual had a high 
unsecured debt to income ration. On balance, I think Ferratum would more likely than not 
have seen most of the extent of Mr Ds other credit commitments from its credit checks.  
Ive reviewed the available information to get an understanding of what Ferratum was likely 
to have seen when it gathered information (or ought to have gathered information) about    
Mr Ds other credit commitments. This includes a copy of Mr Ds credit report. 
Altogether, I think Ferratum would have declined to provide Loans 1 to 4 to Mr D had it 
enquired further into his financial situation. As Id explained above, Id seen from Mr Ds 
credit report that Mr D was taking out numerous short term loans around the time of his 
applications for Loans 1 to 4 and in the months before his applications. He was also near the 
credit limits on his credit cards and he had a very large overdraft that wasnt improving. 
On balance, I think it likely that Ferratums credit checks would have shown that Mr D was 
having significant difficulties managing his money and unlikely to be able to sustainably 
repay Loans 1 to 4. So, I still find that Ferratum was irresponsible to have given Loans 1 to 4 
to Mr D.
I note that Ferratum has referred to a gap between Loans 3 and 4. But this was less than 
three months. I dont think that was anywhere near long enough to give Ferratum any 
confidence that Mr Ds finances had stabilised.
Ferratums response to my provisional decision doesnt affect my conclusions regarding 
Loan 5.
So, Im satisfied that the proposed resolution in my Provisional Decision is fair in all the 
circumstances and that Ferratum UK Limited  should put things right as follows.
Putting things right
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on Loans 1 to 5;2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove adverse entries about Loans 1 to 5 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Ferratum UK Limited to take the steps set out above in order to compensate Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman