DRN-3692793
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money they paid to 
a tradesman for work that wasnt completed.
What happened
The payment in this case was made from a joint account held by Mr and Mrs S but as Mr S 
was more involved, Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr S says that in September 2019 he emailed a number of contractors, including a company 
Ill refer to as T in this decision, to get quotes for building an extension. He then met a 
director of T in Ts showroom when the specifications were altered. Mr S says that before 
deciding to engage T, he completed numerous checks. He compared the quotes of various 
contractors, obtained details of former clients and called them, researched social media 
posts and reviews of T, checked T on Companies House and checked Ts credentials with a 
trade association. Mr S says they also took comfort from the fact T had a high street 
presence. 
The total cost of work exceeded £80,000 and T asked Mr S to pay £20,000 in advance for 
materials. Mr S says other contractors had said they would require a payment in advance for 
the same reason, so he thought this was standard practice. On 2 December a director of T 
chased him for the payment, which Mr S then made. Work was due to start later that week, 
but Mr S didnt hear anything from T. He emailed the director on 9 December 2019 and 
received an out of office response to emails and calls went unanswered. Later that day Mr S 
found that Ts website had been taken down and all social media profiles removed. He called 
Lloyds to report that hed been scammed.
Work was never started and on 3 January 2020 T entered voluntary liquidation. 
Lloyds hasnt agreed to consider Mr and Mrs Ss complaint under the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) as it says that this is a civil dispute 
between Mr and Mrs S and T. Mr S provided Lloyds with evidence from the insolvency 
service giving the reasons why both of the directors of T had been disqualified from being 
directors. Lloyds maintained its stance and so Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full and 
that interest should be added to the award. She said this because she was satisfied Mr and 
Mrs S were the victims of a scam as T had no intention of building an extension when the 
payment was made. And under the CRM Code the investigator was satisfied that none of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement applied as Mr S reasonably believed he was paying 
a legitimate company and wasnt provided with an effective warning. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted the investigators view, but Lloyds did not. In summary, it maintained 
that Mr and Mrs S have a civil dispute with T. Lloyds went on to say that for the CRM Code 
to apply there needs to be a clear intention to defraud by taking money with no intention of 
completing the work, and this wasnt the case. T had been trading successfully for around 
six years and its directors were trying to trade to keep the business alive. Lloyds referred to 
the fact Mr and Mrs S have remedies as creditors. In respect of the warning it provided, 
Lloyds noted it was ineffective under the CRM Code as no warning it could have provided 
would have covered the circumstances of this case. 
When I reviewed this complaint, I contacted Lloyds to explain why I thought Mr and Mrs S 
should receive a full refund plus interest, but Lloyds did not agree so Im issuing this 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam (except in limited circumstances). The CRM Code applies in 
certain circumstances when a customer makes a payment for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent. 
But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So I need to decide if Mr and Mrs S are the victims of a scam. Its clear that they did not 
receive the service they paid for and that no work was ever completed. But, in order to 
conclude that they have been the victims of a scam, I need to be satisfied that a director of T 
deliberately deceived Mr and Mrs S into making a payment for financial gain. In other words, 
I need to believe that its more likely than not that the director of T acted fraudulently. 
To help me decide the intention of the director of T when he asked Mr S to pay £20,000 on 2 
December 2019, Ive reviewed the evidence that is available. The most compelling evidence 
is from the insolvency service. In the interests of confidentiality and given that this decision 
will be published, I cant go into detail about this evidence. But both parties to this complaint 
have seen the evidence so are fully aware of it. In brief though, the evidence shows that 
before Mr S was asked to make the initial payment of £20,000 the director he was dealing 
with had full knowledge that T was in severe financial difficulty and had made a significant 
loss in October 2019. Ts accountant had also advised the directors it needed to review 
liquidity. But between a date in November and 6 December 2019 T took substantial deposits. 
The director of T who communicated with Mr S took a large deposit the day after he told his 
accountant T was unable to pay its debts.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that when Mr S paid the £20,000 payment, its more likely 
than not that the director of T who asked him to make it knew that the work Mr S had paid for 
wouldnt be completed. I understand Lloyds point that T had traded legitimately for some 
time before Mr S made the payment but think the evidence demonstrates that there came a 
point towards the end of November 2019 when its directors actively sought deposits for work 
they knew wouldnt be done. 
Lloyds also holds Ts account. It has provided me with very limited information that indicates 
that after Mr S made the £20,000 payment some of the funds might have been used to buy 
materials. From the information Ive been given though, its impossible to see whether the 
payments related to previous invoices or whether they related to Mr Ss extension. Its also 
clear that a large proportion of the funds werent used for this purpose and that no funds 
remained by the time Mr S reported the scam on 9 December 2019.  
T also stopped responding to Mr S once the payment had been made and removed social 
media presence and their website. These are actions commonly taken by scammers. 
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S are the victims of a scam. So I need to go on and 
consider the other provisions of the CRM Code to decide whether Lloyds should refund them. The CRM Code requires victims of APP scams like this one to be reimbursed in all but 
a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds has accepted that it didnt provide Mr S with an 
effective warning during the payment journey but has indicated that Mr S didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing he was paying a genuine contractor. I disagree and will 
explain why.
I set out above the steps Mr S took before deciding to enter into a contract with T. As Lloyds 
has pointed out, T was a well-established company at the time, so he was able to see this 
and view online reviews. These satisfied him that T was a genuine company. I consider the 
fact that T had two shops would also have been reassuring to Mr S. Mr S spoke to two 
former customers of T, both of whom were very satisfied with T. I note that Lloyds has 
referred to the fact Mr S didnt view the work, but I can understand why people would not 
invite strangers into their home to view completed work. Overall, Im satisfied Mr S took 
reasonable steps to ensure T was a genuine company and so I dont think Lloyds has 
established that it can deny reimbursement in this case. 
I have seen evidence that confirms that the liquidators didnt expect there would be sufficient 
funds to pay any unsecured creditors so I think its very unlikely Mr and Mrs S will recover 
any funds. If they do, they should return to Lloyds the amount recovered so that they are not 
compensated twice for the same loss. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Lloyds should refund the amount Mr and Mrs S lost in 
this scam together with interest. I can see that the funds were transferred into Mr and Mrs 
Ss account from another account so to put them in the position theyd have been in were it 
not for the scam Lloyds should pay interest at the rate that applied to the account the funds 
were transferred from. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- Pay Mr and Mrs S £20,000;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the originating account rate from the date Lloyds 
rejected the claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman