DRN-2787303
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Complete Cover Group Ltd (CCG) mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In mid- September 2019, Mr Y went onto a price comparison website and bought an 
insurance policy for his car. CCG was an intermediary between him and the motor insurer. 
The policy had an all-sections excess of £3,000.00. So Mr Y wouldve had to pay for the first 
£3,000.00 of any claim under any section of the policy. But CGG also arranged excess 
reduction cover for half that excess.
Mr Y paid CGG a deposit. He agreed to pay the balance due to CGG (and interest) by 
instalments to a finance company. 
In about February 2020, CGG asked Mr Y for further information including his driving 
licence. From early March 2020, CGG asked for an additional premium and an 
administration fee to reflect some penalty points Mr Y hadnt mentioned.
In April 2020, an unidentified third party hit and damaged Mr Ys car whilst it was parked. 
After telephone calls with CGG, Mr Y didnt pursue a claim for the repair of his car.
In July 2020, CGG cancelled the policy on the grounds of arears of instalments. Mr Y 
complained to CGG about the cancellation, poor service and conflicting information. 
CGG wrote a final response dated 29 September 2020. CGG said it would remove its 
cancellation charge of £50.00.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us in December 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
CCG had treated Mr Y unfairly as it complied with instructions from the policy administrator.
However, she thought that communication couldve been better, and this led to confusion. 
The investigator said that CCG will be able to assist Mr Y further if he provides his driving 
licence and invoices/receipts for the repairs carried out on his car.
Mr Y disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
At the start of the insurance, CGG charged him about £250.00 to make his policy 
excess £1,500.00.
 
After his car got hit, CGG told him his excess was £3,000.00 not £1,500.00. That led 
him to get a local garage to fix his car on a cheaper price for which he couldnt get a   
receipt.
Later CGG told him it had made a mistake and led him to believe the excess was 
£3,000.00 when it shouldve been £1,500.00. 
On the phone call he made on 24 July, he was told that he was going to get a call 
back. That did not happen, and his insurance got cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont identify anyone 
else.
From the call recordings and from the welcome letter, I note that Mr Y agreed to pay £224.00 
for excess reduction cover.
CGGs terms of business included the following:
You will be liable to immediately pay any balance under the finance arrangement
if a monthly payment becomes overdue or defaults. We reserve the right to cancel all 
cover if you do not rectify a default or pay a balance owed
Its not uncommon for intermediaries or insurers to ask for documents after the sale of a 
policy. In mid- February 2020, CGG asked Mr Y for documents including his driving licence. I 
dont consider that an unreasonable request. In any event, I consider that it was the policy 
administrators request and CGG had to pass it on to Mr Y.
Ive seen Mr Ys payment record. He had missed payments even before they were increased 
by the additional premium.
In relation to the additional premium, I dont consider that CGG did anything wrong. I find it 
likely that it was the motor insurer rather than CGG that set the additional premium. Mr Y 
said he would be attending court to dispute the conviction. So Im satisfied that CCG said 
that there was nothing that it could do unless and until the court removed the points from his 
licence.
From my review of the call recordings, I cant find that CGG told Mr Y that he didnt have 
excess reduction. On 9 April 2020, CGG confirmed that he did have excess reduction and he 
would need to contact the provider of that cover if he wanted to make a claim.
CGGs correspondence diary includes an entry dated 13 July 2020 in which it acknowledged 
confusion caused by the sale of the excess reduction.
But Mr Y hasnt provided enough evidence of the time when he got his car repaired or the 
cost of that. So Im not persuaded that he got it repaired before CGG gave clarification on 9 
April 2020 about the excess reduction. And Im not persuaded that CGG caused Mr Ys 
decision not to claim on the motor policy.
CGGs final response included the following:
We acknowledge conflicting information was given to you in relation to the payments 
and additional premium due, and we understand why you would have been 
confused. We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience we have caused. Ive looked carefully at the figures and Mr Ys payments. Ive also seen a letter from CGG to 
Mr Y dated 10 July 2020 asking him to pay £326.89 by 14 July  otherwise the policy might 
be cancelled. Im satisfied that figure was correct. 
But Mr Y made no further payment by 14 July 2020. And Ive seen a notice that the policy 
would be cancelled with effect from 23 July 2020. Mr Y didnt make a payment or contact 
CGG by that date. 
Mr Y contacted CGG on 24 July 2020 (a Friday). I dont find it likely that its a coincidence 
that he rang the day after the deadline of 23 July. I find it more likely that hed received the 
notice. From the call recording, I note that Mr Y said hed been to court and DVLA should 
remove the points recorded on his licence. Mr Y asked for a call back on 27 July (a Monday). 
Mr Y also asked for confirmation that the policy was still live.
Im not satisfied that CGG rang Mr Y back. Rather on 31 July 2020 it wrote a confirmation of 
cancellation. And Mr Y had to ring back on 1 August.
I accept that CGG was responsible for some poor communication with Mr Y between 
September 2019 onwards.
However, I keep in mind Mr Ys payment history and his lack of communication about the 
points on his licence. And I consider that the cancellation was in line with CGGs terms of 
business. So I dont find that CGG treated Mr Y unfairly by cancelling his policy.
CGG tried to help him make a claim for the repair of his car but unfortunately Mr Y hasnt 
been able to provide evidence of the date or cost of repair. Mr Y has told us that he lost his 
job and had to dispose of the car.
CGG waived its cancellation fee. Overall, Im satisfied that it did enough to compensate Mr Y 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings Ive found its communication 
with him.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct CGG to waive any further sums or to alter its 
record of the cancellation or to do anything else in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Complete Cover Group Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman