DRN-4270580
The complaint
Mr S has complained Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Lamborghini 
Financial Services, rescinded his hire purchase agreement and added a fraud-related 
marker to his record without refunding the money he paid towards the agreement.
What happened
In 2022 Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement for a high-value car with VWFS. Using two 
different accounts (a charge card and his business account), Mr S paid the £70,000 deposit 
and costs to get the car on the road. He also signed a direct debit instruction to pay 
£1,856.62 a month over the following four years.
Within four months, VWFS wrote to Mr S. They told him they were rescinding the agreement 
as they had evidence Mr S had supplied altered bank statements to support his original 
application. VWFS would be taking steps to take possession of the vehicle.
Mr S denied this had been the case. Hed used a third-party supplier to collate the necessary 
documentation. Hed not had time  as his wife was having surgery  to review the data 
himself and just provided the relevant link direct to VWFS. He was keen to keep the car and 
got in touch with VWFS to sort this out, and if needs be, pay the outstanding finance to take 
ownership. Mr S has told us he contacted VWFS by various means, but they wouldnt speak 
to him. Mr S was upset to discover VWFS had reported the car as stolen when hed met all 
his financial obligations under the agreement. He brought his complaint to our service.
Shortly after the case came to our service, VWFS took possession of the car and arranged 
for its sale.
Mr S subsequently discovered his business bank accounts were being closed. He found out 
that VWFS had lodged a marker against his record with the fraud industry database, CIFAS. 
He confirmed this was part of his main complaint to our service along with getting his deposit 
back.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided to us by both VWFS and Mr S. She 
completed a detailed view on 21 April 2023. She didnt think VWFS had done anything 
wrong and wouldnt be asking them to remove the fraud marker. She also confirmed she 
wasnt in a position to ask VWFS to repay any funds to Mr S.
Mr S has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint as he firmly believes no marker 
should apply. He had nothing to do with the altering any of the bank statements and doesnt 
believe he had anything to gain from doing so. The whole series of events was having a 
large impact on his mental health and finances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly its clear the issues of whether VWFS could decide to rescind the agreement is 
closely tied up with why they felt they could do this and subsequently lodge a CIFAS marker 
against Mr S.
So I have considered both aspects. 
The decision to rescind a finance agreement was because VWFS believed Mr S had made a 
false misrepresentation which allowed them to wind everything back. Essentially if theyd 
known the bank statements theyd reviewed had been altered when the application was 
made, theyd never have agreed to providing a hire purchase agreement to Mr S.
I have seen the bank statements at the heart of this. I appreciate Mr S has told us he didnt 
provide these to the third-party as these came direct from his bookkeeper. However its clear 
to me that details on these statements have been falsified. The only person I believe that 
could have gained from this action is Mr S. Whilst I accept hes told us he didnt check the 
information the third-party put together, the responsibility was his to do this. Having not done 
so, I believe this means Mr S has supplied fraudulent information to support his finance 
application.
I accept VWFS could take steps to rescind the agreement.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So VWFS must be able to provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being committed 
and Mr S was involved. 
VWFS were concerned that fraudulent information had been provided to them. This 
information enabled a false credit application to be made by Mr S. I appreciate Mr S disputes 
this was the case, but I dont agree. I can see VWFS felt they had sufficient evidence. In fact, 
as Mr S is aware they reported the car  the subject of the credit agreement  as stolen. 
They could see this was a high-value asset and wanted to ensure it didnt go missing.
I dont accept Mr Ss argument that a third party falsified the date that was provided to 
VWFS. As I stated above, thered be no grounds for them doing so as theres no gain. In fact 
there would be professional loss of reputation if the third party or Mr Ss bookkeeper had 
falsified information. 
Mr S has confirmed he still wants his deposit back now that VWFS has been able to sell the 
car. Im not in a position to instruct VWFS to do this. He can, of course, consider what further 
legal steps he can take about this aspect.
I also note, as our investigator showed in her detailed view, that Mr S has not provided us 
with full information about his interactions with the third party despite being asked on 
numerous occasions. Following the view, Mr S asked for sufficient time to put additional 
evidence together. More than three months has now passed. Our service has received 
nothing further from Mr S to consider.Overall I believe VWFS has made their case for lodging a CIFAS marker against Mr S. I 
wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Lamborghini Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman