DRN-2654006
The complaint
Mr F and his representative have complained about One Insurance Limited. He isnt happy 
about the delay in settling a claim under his commercial insurance policy and the valuation it 
placed on his vehicle after it was written off.  
 
What happened
Mr F made a claim under his commercial vehicle insurance policy in January 2020. One 
Insurance initially offered £5,400 which he thought was too low and so he complained.
One Insurance looked at the adverts Mr F provided and at the trade valuation guides and 
then increased its offer to £7,482. It also offered £50 by way of compensation as an engineer 
didnt call Mr F back when he said he would and for any poor service. But Mr F still wasnt 
happy, so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. He thought the 
valuation of £7,482 that One Insurance eventually offered was fair and in line with the trade 
guide valuations hed considered. But he thought that the level of compensation should be 
lifted by £200. Mr F accepted this and raised another complaint about not being returned the 
salvage which is being dealt with separately, but One Insurance didnt agree. It simply said 
that it thought its offer of £50 was fair. 
As One Insurance didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. And as Mr F seems to accept that the valuation of his vehicle was fair I dont propose 
to go into detail about this other than to say Ive looked at the guides and the eventual 
valuation seems fair. But I will focus on the sole remaining issue of compensation.
One Insurance feels that its offer of £50 is fair but that doesnt take account of the additional 
delays Mr F faced in finalising this complaint. It says in its final response to Mr F that this 
covers a failure to call back and some poor service. But this doesnt address the delay and 
chasing that Mr F and his representative had to do to get their claim resolved.
The claim was made in January 2020 and yet nothing appeared to happen in relation to the 
claim for about three weeks when Mr Fs representative chased this. And there were a 
number of further delays when Mr F disputed the original valuation and it took a further 
month to revisit this when all that was required was a simple check and verification of the 
trade guides.
Given all of this I agree with our investigator that a further £200 compensation seems fair as 
I think the delays impacted on Mr F and his business. And this is in addition to the £50 One 
Insurance awarded in relation to the poor service when its engineer failed to call back when 
they said they would. 
I wont make any comment on Mr Fs further complaint about his vehicle being disposed of 
as that is being looked at separately.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think this complaint should be partly upheld. I 
require One Insurance Limited to pay Mr F an additional £200 compensation (£250 in total). 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman