The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the way Society of Lloyd's (SOL) has handled a claim she's made on 
her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
A representative brings this complaint on behalf of Miss M. References I make to the actions 
of Miss M include those of her representative.
Miss M has a buildings insurance policy under the name of a well-known insurance 
provider. The policy is underwritten by SOL and it's responsible for complaints about claims, 
so I'll refer to it throughout. 
This complaint focuses on SOL's handling of the claim from when it was first reported until 
the final response was issued in August 2019. The issues which arose after this are the 
subject of another complaint being considered by this service. 
In June 2019, Miss M's property experienced flood damage, so she got in contact with SOL. 
SOL appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to consider the claim, but this was initially delayed due to 
internal communication issues
The LA visited the site and following a discussion about alternative accommodation it was 
decided Miss M would remain in the property. Following a visit by another expert, it became 
clear the property was not suitable to be lived in due to the possible presence of asbestos. 
So alternative accommodation was arranged. Miss M says the LA should have done this 
sooner because of the potential health risks. 
SOL was unable to find suitable long-term accommodation and it said this was due to the 
requirement to house Miss M and her family in a property in a suitable area which also 
allowed pets. This meant Miss M had to move a number of times, and she says this was 
inconvenient and stressful.
Miss M says her utility bills were considerably higher as a consequence of the claim, 
and she and her partner experienced a loss of earnings because of it and so she says SOL 
should cover these financial losses too.
She complained to SOL and it said the claim had been dealt with in a reasonably timely 
manner but it acknowledged things could have gone better, particularly at the start of the 
claim. It made an award of £150 to recognise the impact of its shortcomings.
Our investigator considered all the evidence presented by Miss M and SOL and concluded 
that SOL could have handled the claim better. She thought the £150 already offered by SOL 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
DRN-1445498Miss M remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so I've reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
To be clear, my decision here focuses on SOL's handling of the claim from the day it was 
reported, 12 June 2019 until its final response. Anything that happened after this date is the 
subject of a separate complaint.
When considering insurance claims I need to keep in mind a claim involving extensive 
flooding, such as this one, will inevitably cause a significant level of inconvenience and 
distress to the policyholder. And it's also likely to take some time to resolve. I can't hold the 
insurer responsible for those things.
What I can do though is take a closer look at how the claim was handled and decide if 
SOL did what it should have done in a timely way while keeping in mind what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable. That's what I'll be doing here.
I'll deal with what I consider to be the key complaint points in turn.
The delay in appointing a Loss Assessor 
Miss M first reported the claim to SOL on 12 June 2019 and while an attempt was made to 
appoint an LA, there was a communication error and the appointment was delayed as a 
consequence. An appointment was subsequently made for 18 June 20. SOL has 
acknowledged it made this mistake. And given the circumstances I can see why this would 
have been stressful for Miss M given the flood she had so recently experienced. 
The advice about alternative accommodation
There are conflicting versions of events about the advice the LA gave regarding alternative 
accommodation in his initial visit to the property. In situations like this I need to consider 
what evidence there is and reach a conclusion on the balance of probability  that is to say, 
what I consider is more likely to have happened.
Miss M says the LA didn't advise her to move out and it was only when a specialist 
contractor attended shortly after, the health risks were highlighted to her and it became 
apparent alternative accommodation would be necessary. By doing this, she says she was 
exposed to potential health risks.
On the other hand, SOL says its LA advised Miss M she should move out of the property but 
she declined to do so as she was concerned it might jeopardise a court case regarding the 
custody of her children. 
So I've looked carefully through the available evidence. In the notes made shortly after the 
LA's visit to the property on 18 June 2019 it's recorded that
"Your insured initially elected to remain at the risk address..." 
Miss M has a strong view that the LA's written version of events often didn't match what he 
said to her face to face. While I acknowledge this view, I find the LA's 
contemporaneous notes persuasive and Miss M hasn't presented any evidence to support her version of events. So, on the balance of probability, I consider it more likely than not that 
the LA did advise Miss M to move out of the property, and she chose not to.
SOL has acknowledged its LA could have done more to highlight the need for alternative 
accommodation and has awarded £150 to recognise this and the delay in the appointment of 
the LA. I know Miss M doesn't think this fairly reflects the impact of the potential  health risks 
but I must focus here on what happened, not on what might have happened. And for that 
reason, I consider the £150 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Problems with alternative accommodation
Miss M wasn't happy with the way her alternative accommodation was handled. SOL initially 
arranged for Miss M and her family to move into a hotel and for her pets to go into kennels. 
Miss M was keen though to arrange something more permanent with cooking facilities.
I can see SOL made a number of attempts to find suitable accommodation - which needed 
to be able to accommodate a number of children and pets and be situated in a particular 
location. It seems this combination of requirements made it challenging for SOL, and Miss M 
rejected a number of its suggestions. Eventually, Miss M managed to source suitable 
accommodation through a neighbour and SOL agreed to cover the cost.
Having considered all the evidence on file,  I'm satisfied that SOL made reasonable efforts to 
find somewhere which matched Miss M's requirements and that's what I'd expect it to do.  It 
seems properties in the required location, matching Miss M's requirements were relatively 
scarce. 
I acknowledge that in the end, Miss M found her own accommodation but overall, I'm 
satisfied SOL made reasonable efforts and met its obligations under the policy.
Loss of earnings and increased utility bills
I've looked carefully through Miss M's policy terms and under the General Exclusions section 
it explains:
"We won't pay for any loss which is a side effect - or happens as a result of - the incident for 
which you are making a valid claim. For example...loss of earnings..."
From this, I'm satisfied the policy doesn't provide cover for any loss of earnings Miss M may 
have experienced as a consequence of this claim.
Miss M says she has had to pay more in utility bills because of SOL's actions. I note SOL 
has asked Miss M to provide it with details of this together with copies of her bills but I can't 
see this information has been provided. So, in the absence of any supporting information, I 
don't think it would be fair or reasonable to ask SOL to make a payment to Miss M in this 
regard.
In summary, I think SOL did cause a delay at the beginning of the claim when it delayed the 
appointment of an LA. I consider the £150 it offered Miss M to acknowledge the impact of 
this delay was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I won't be asking it to do 
anymore.
My final decisionI am aware Society of Lloyd's has made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint. I 
conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that Society of Lloyd's should pay Miss M £150 if it hasnt done so already
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman