DRN-4096966
The complaint
Miss K has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under 
a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss K had a fire in her home, which caused extensive damage. Aviva accepted the fire 
claim and assessed the damage. Miss K complained to Aviva because she was concerned 
about the way the contents claim was being settled, including whether it covered all of the 
damaged contents and that she didnt think the clothes had been sufficiently cleaned, as she 
said they still smelled of smoke.
When Aviva replied, it said when its contractor visited the property, it made a list of the 
damaged contents and that, due to a technical error, the list hadnt uploaded in its entirety. It 
said it awaited Miss Ks response to the latest list it had sent of the items in order to resolve 
this issue. It also accepted that its technician had left a lit candle at the property. For the 
clothes, it said it had asked its contractors to check the clothing and it had been confirmed 
they didnt smell of smoke. It said Miss K could provide her own report if she was concerned 
toxins remained in the clothing. It offered £500 compensation for the issues with how the 
claim had been handled.
Miss K complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Miss K 
should be given a final opportunity to provide a list of damaged items, given the original list 
had been lost due to a technical error. He also said Aviva should include the clothing in the 
settlement of the claim, as it was more likely than not that the clothes had come into contact 
with a significant amount of smoke. He said the £500 compensation offered by Aviva was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Aviva agreed to consider a final list of damaged items. However, it said it didnt think it 
should deal with the clothing. So, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
From what Ive seen, this was a significant fire that, understandably, caused a great deal of 
distress to Miss K. That distress was added to by the way Aviva dealt with the claim, 
including its contractor leaving a lit candle in the property and the list of damaged items 
being lost due to a technical error. 
Im aware Aviva and Miss K have been trying to agree a list of items for some time now. 
Aviva has said that it is highly unusual for the technical issue to have happened. Had the 
original list not been lost due to the technical error, I think the list could have been 
progressed much sooner. It wasnt down to anything Miss K did that the list was lost and I 
also think, given the extent of the fire and the number of damaged items, it is understandable 
why it was difficult for Miss K to recall all of the items that should be included. Ideally, the list 
would have been agreed before now, but due to the unusual circumstances, I think it is 
reasonable that a final list is compiled for the claim, which Aviva can then validate in line with 
its normal processes.
There is also the issue of the clothing. Im aware Aviva and Miss K have strong views about 
the condition of the clothing. Aviva has said that it has been checked by two different 
contractors and it doesnt smell of smoke. Miss K has said it does smell of smoke and has 
also now provided a letter from a dry cleaner who has said they inspected some of the items 
and confirmed they smelt of smoke. So, Ive thought about this.
Im aware it was a significant fire and it is likely that it caused items to smell of smoke. Miss 
K raised concerns about the smell of smoke on the clothes as soon as they were returned by 
the company that had cleaned them and has continued to say they smell of smoke. Aviva 
got two companies to assess the clothes. I note that the first company, which was the 
company that cleaned the clothes, asked an independent person who works in the office 
rather than the technicians warehouse to go into the warehouse to check everything over. I 
dont doubt that this person gave their honest view of the condition of the clothes, but I dont 
think someone who works for the same company is an independent person or that it is clear 
what checks they carried out. For the second company, Aviva has said the items were 
checked by hand and didnt smell smoke. Im aware Aviva has also said both companies 
would have no reason to say the clothes didnt smell of smoke if the items did because the 
procedure was to replace items where they couldnt be successfully cleaned. Ive also seen 
Miss Ks recent dry cleaner report which says the clothes still smell of smoke.
Im mindful it can be subjective whether something smells and what it smells of. But taking 
into account the extent of the fire, Miss Ks consistent view that the clothes smell of smoke 
and the views of the two companies and the dry cleaner, I think it is more likely than not that 
the clothes still smelt of smoke. So, I think Aviva needs to deal with the clothing in the 
settlement it offers.
Ive also thought about compensation. Aviva already offered £500 compensation, which I 
think is a substantial amount. Looking at everything that happened, I think what Aviva has 
already offered was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont require it to pay any further 
compensation.
Putting things right
Aviva should consider a final list of damaged items provided by Miss K to reach a settlement 
and deal with the clothes in the settlement offer. It should also pay the £500 compensation it 
previously offered if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Consider a final list of damaged items provided by Miss K to reach a settlement.
Deal with the clothing in the settlement offer.
Pay the £500 compensation it offered, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman