DRN-3981124
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Society of Lloyds increased the cost of her income protection 
insurance premiums. 
What happened
Mrs H took out an income protection insurance policy in April 2019 to cover her mortgage 
and house expenses in the event she became unemployed. She is unhappy that the 
premiums increased from £47.40 to £61.60 in October 2020. In February 2021 there was a 
further increase, bringing the monthly premium to £114.40. Mrs H complained because she 
said her premiums had increased by 141% in two years. 
In their initial response Society of Lloyds said that the policy was a rolling monthly contract 
and that the policy terms could change with 30 days notice. That included changes to the 
price. However, they offered £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill because they said 
Mrs H had been caused some confusion and inconvenience. Mrs H escalated her complaint 
and Society of Lloyds issued a further response, maintaining their position that the increase 
was fairly applied by the underwriters of the policy and in line with the policy terms. 
Unhappy, Mrs H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She reiterated that there 
had been a further increase in the price of the policy in February 2021. She explained she 
held two policies, and one of the insurers hadnt increased the price of the premiums. Mrs H 
explained that she couldnt swap to another provider and was unfairly having to pay the 
increases. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She 
recommended Society of Lloyds pay Mrs H £350 compensation. She said that Society of 
Lloyds hadnt made it clear enough that the premium could increase at any time. And, they 
hadnt adequately explained why the cost of the policy had increased so much. 
Mrs H said she thought the level of compensation was low given that there had been no 
justification for the price increases and that Society of Lloyds could continue to do this at 
any time. However, she accepted the investigators findings. Society of Lloyds asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Having reviewed the complaint, I asked our investigator to get in touch with 
Society of Lloyds and Mrs H as I was considering increasing the compensation to £500. 
That was because I didnt think £350 fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs H said she was happy to accept this increased compensation. Society of Lloyds said 
the impact of Covid-19 on the market for this type of policy was responsible for the majority 
of the distress, worry and inconvenience caused. They highlighted that other providers had 
withdrawn from the market and that the compensation of £500 isnt in line with the examples 
on the Financial Ombudsman Services website. They said that they agreed Mrs H should 
received compensation for the inconvenience caused by not being given sufficiently clear 
information about the full implications of having a monthly renewable policy. But, they 
thought £150 compensation was fair. Society of Lloyds also highlighted theyd provided 
sufficient evidence to justify the increases in the price of the premiums.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy documentation
The policy documentation, issued to Mrs H in April 2020, referred to the annual review of 
your short term income protection insurance. The schedule of insurance refers to the 
monthly, and annual cost of the policy and says the policy end date is in April 2021.
The insurance product information document (IPID) says on page two: 
Cover commences on the date shown in your schedule and will continue each month 
on a rolling basis. 
Under the heading Annual Review the policy terms say: 
We will review your policy each year on your policy anniversary date, which shall be 
the date 12 months from the start date of your policy and annually thereafter. Any 
changes that we wish to make will be implemented with effect from the next or 
nearest policy anniversary date. We may make changes to policy cover and/or terms 
and conditions as a result of the cost of providing this cover to you, therefore your 
premium may increase or decrease or remain unchanged as a result of the annual 
review. Please note there is no limit to the size or nature of the changes. 
You will be notified in writing at least a minimum of 21 days prior to your policy 
anniversary start date each year, of any changes which we intend to make to your 
policy. 
In July 2020 Society of Lloyds wrote to Mrs H to clarify that the policy was a monthly rolling 
policy and saying that amendments could be made by giving 30 days notice. They said the 
policy wording doesnt confirm that the cover was monthly renewable but does refer to an 
annual review. They said the information needed to be corrected and provided a copy of 
updated policy terms and conditions. 
The relevant law, industry rules and industry guidelines
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook and Society of Lloyds is obliged to follow these. 
They include: 
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7 - A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and 
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD 
makes clear that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the 
customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided. 
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time of the 
claim. Thats for insurers  and their agents  to make clear what the key benefits, and 
significant limitations, of cover are. And, they also need to ensure that consumers are given 
clear information about what changes can be made to the policy during its lifetime.
Has Society of Lloyds treated Mrs H fairly? 
Ive taken into account all the information and arguments submitted by the parties. But Ill 
focus on those which I think are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint and directing Society of Lloyds to pay her £500 
compensation because: 
Based on Society of Lloyds most recent submissions they accept Mrs H wasnt given 
sufficient information to understand the full implications of a monthly renewable 
policy. In any event, I think thats the case for the reasons Ill outline below. 
The policy wording didnt make it clear that the policy was monthly renewable. 
Society of Lloyds acknowledged in their letter of July 2020 that the policy wording 
didnt say the policy was monthly renewable and needed to be corrected. 
The policy documentation Mrs H was provided with in April 2020 referred to it being 
annually reviewable. This was also reflected in other sections of the policy 
documentation, such as the schedule of insurance. 
I dont think Society of Lloyds made it sufficiently clear to Mrs H that her policy was a 
monthly contract or what the implications of this were. This meant her premiums 
could increase at any time, and the increases could be unlimited in nature. I think this 
was a significant limitation in cover which ought to have been clearly highlighted to 
her. I dont think this was clear, prominent or transparent in the policy documentation. 
Mrs H didnt realise the implications of this until the price of her policy increased in 
October 2020 and again in 2021. I think this has caused her worry, confusion, 
distress and inconvenience. Following the impact of Covid-19 it was increasingly 
difficult for Mrs H to source alternative cover. Shes told us that shes still unable to 
get an alternative policy to replace this one. So, shes in a position where she has to 
pay significantly higher premiums or cancel her income protection policy. I think if Mrs H had known that the price of the policy could be subject to unlimited 
changes, which could take place more than once a year, its unlikely shed have 
taken out this policy. I think its more likely that shed have taken out an annually 
renewable policy which offered her greater stability. 
Ive taken into account that Society of Lloyds doesnt consider there to be persuasive 
evidence thats the case. But their representations havent changed my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint. Mrs H complained to Society of Lloyds in 
October 2020, shortly after she was notified of the first increase which took place 
outside of the annual review period. In her complaint she said that this wasnt how 
the policy was marketed to her and she referred to the terms relating to the Annual 
Review of the policy. So, all of this leads me to conclude, on balance, this would 
have been an important feature of the policy to Mrs H. I particularly bear in mind that 
a core feature of her policy was to offer her financial stability and security.   
Ive taken into account the information Society of Lloyds has referred to on the 
Financial Ombudsman Services website and what its said about annually renewable 
policies leading to one, large increase at renewal. Mrs H took out the policy to ensure 
financial stability and security during uncertain times. Now, she is struggling to make 
the increased payments and cant move provider. So, I dont think the compensation 
offered by Society of Lloyds fairly reflects the short- or long-term impact on Mrs H. I 
think £500 more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs H at an 
already worrying and uncertain time. I dont think this was just caused by the impact 
of Covid-19 on the income protection market. It was also caused by Mrs H realising 
she had a product, designed to offer her financial stability, which could change in 
price at any time with relatively short notice at a time when she couldnt source 
alternative cover. 
Society of Lloyds also said that they were confused as to why the investigator 
referred to RPPD whilst also acknowledging the impact of Covid-19 on the income 
protection market. And they provided further information about their decision to 
increase the policy premiums, re-iterating the explanations it gave to Mrs H about the 
need to increase the premiums to ensure ongoing cover. But, even if I accepted this 
explanation, I still dont think the policy documents were clear enough about the 
premium increases which in effect, were unlimited in both frequency and size. I think 
this has placed Mrs H at a disadvantage and she has lost out as a result.
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to put things right by paying Mrs H 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Society of Lloyds and direct them to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman