DRN-3000762
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse him for his 
loss after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too 
much detail here. In March 2019 Mr P made a payment of around £2,000 to a company Ill 
refer to as W. He was told he had a six month contract with W during which time it would 
provide him with certain services relating to the development of his business.
It later became clear W didnt provide any of the services agreed and Mr P had been the 
victim of a scam. He reported the matter to NatWest in June 2020. NatWest contacted the 
receiving bank but was told no funds remained in the account so they couldnt be returned to 
Mr P. And, after investigating his complaint the bank felt it had processed the payment 
according to procedure and hadnt missed an opportunity to prevent the scam from 
happening. So it didnt agree to reimburse Mr P for his loss.
Mr P brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it. They 
explained that under the regulations that applied to Mr Ps case they didnt think there was 
anything more NatWest ought to have done. Mr P didnt accept this, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the payment Mr P made was authorised even though he was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. He made the payment himself and under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mr P is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Having carefully considered the payment of £2,160 Mr P made to the scammers, I dont think 
it was significantly unusual enough that NatWest reasonably ought to have blocked the 
payment to question Mr P about it or refused to carry out the transaction altogether.
The payment Mr P made was for a greater amount than his general use in the months 
leading up to the payment. But I wouldnt expect NatWest to stop every payment slightly 
larger than usual. It has to strike a balance in monitoring accounts and preventing fraud with 
not unduly hindering a customers general use of their account. And its reasonable to expect 
that, occasionally, individuals will want to make purchases that are larger than their usual 
day to day spending. For example, paying for a holiday, home improvements or a car. Its 
also not unusual that these payments might be to new beneficiaries as they arent regular 
purchases.
And, whilst the payment in question is a larger payment than the general spending on Mr Ps 
account, compared to his income, balance and general spending, I dont think £2,000 is such 
a large amount that it couldnt be a legitimate one off purchase he was making.
Overall, having considered Mr Ps account statements I dont think this payment reasonably 
ought to have prompted any intervention from NatWest or any of the targeted warnings I 
wouldve expected it to have provided had it considered the payment to be unusual. So I 
dont think the bank missed an opportunity to prevent the payment being made. As such I 
dont think its liable for reimbursing Mr P for his loss.
Ive noted NatWest has, seemingly in error, mentioned the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) when answering Mr Ps complaint. For 
clarity, I wanted to confirm the CRM code doesnt apply in this case because the payment 
was made before it came into force. So I havent taken it into account when reaching my 
decision.
Ive considered Mr Ps additional comments carefully around why he feels NatWest 
shouldve done more to protect him and the case study hes provided that he feels is similar 
to his situation. Each case we deal with is considered on its individual merits and Im 
satisfied NatWest has acted as I wouldve expected in this case. 
And, although Ive considered his comments around why he feels an intervention from 
NatWest wouldve prevented him making the payment, for the reasons Ive given I wouldnt 
have expected an intervention in this case.
Should NatWest have done more to retrieve the funds?
When it was informed that Mr P had been the victim of a scam I wouldve expected NatWest 
to have acted immediately in contacting the receiving bank to request the return of any funds 
that remained. It hasnt done that here. NatWests contact notes reflect that it was first 
informed of the scam on 24 June 2020. Its recorded that Mr P reported services not 
rendered. It doesnt appear to have taken any action or treated the matter as a scam until 8 
July 2020. 
Weve contacted the receiving bank directly to find out if the money wouldve been available 
on 24 June 2020, but its said due to the time that has now passed it can no longer confirm 
when exactly the funds left the account. So Ive had to reach a conclusion on what I think is 
more likely given the evidence available. When Mr P contacted NatWest to inform it hed been the victim of a scam, it had already 
been over a year since hed made the payment to the scammers. And in my experience, its 
generally the case that money will be removed from the receiving account quickly to avoid it 
being recalled by the sending bank when the scam is reported.  
So whilst I can see NatWest didnt act until two weeks after Mr P reported the scam, I think 
its unlikely this wouldve made a difference as I think its more likely than not his money had 
been moved on at some point in the 15 months before he reported it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman