DRN-3353804
The complaint
Mrs B says Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 118) irresponsibly lent 
to her. She thinks that, because of the size and term of the loan, 118 118 should have made 
better checks. If it had done this it would have seen that Mrs B had significant financial 
problems which included gambling. 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan 118 118 provided to Mrs B. Mrs B borrowed £2,000 on 20 
November 2020. She was due to make 24 monthly repayments of £147.37. So, she would 
repay a total of £3,536.88. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She thought that the checks that 118 118 
had made were proportionate and these showed that the loan was likely to be affordable. 
Mrs B disagreed. She maintained that 118 118 should have made better checks. And had it 
done this it wouldve seen that she was in financial difficulty.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me, and ombudsman, to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching question I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint is:
Did 118 118, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mrs B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks 
have shown that Mrs B wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that 118 118 did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs B and 
that as a result he lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs B. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mrs B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs B. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
118 118 has provided evidence to show that before lending the loan it asked Mrs B about 
her income and expenditure and looked at some credit reference agency information to 
verify her income and look at any other credit she may have. Based on those checks 118 
118 thought it was fair to lend. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs B provided when she completed her loan 
application. Mrs B said she had a monthly income of around £2,000. 118 118s checks show 
this may have been nearer £1,600. And she had regular monthly outgoings of about £1,000. 
So, it wouldve been reasonable for 118 118 to think that the loan was affordable for Mrs B. 
The information it obtained from the credit reference agency did show that Mrs B had some 
other debt. But this was modest, and Mrs B wasnt having any problems repaying it. 
So I dont think 118 118 needed to look at Mrs Bs bank statements here, or do a full review 
another way. And it wouldnt be fair to say that it should have seen the amounts Mrs B was 
gambling. I dont think this something the 118 118 knew, or ought to have known, from what 
I consider to be proportionate checks. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely 118 118 was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mrs Bs circumstances further. Overall, I think it was reasonable for 118 118 to 
rely on the information it obtained.
So, in these circumstances, I think the assessment 118 118 did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve it was reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman