DRN-4158730
The complaint
Miss S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of her motor 
insurance claim. Part of her complaint relates to her hire vehicle cover which is also 
underwritten by Admiral.
Admiral is the underwriter of these policies i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its agents. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In November 2022, Miss S made a claim under her motor insurance policy with Admiral after 
her car was stolen. Miss S says Admiral wasnt available to report her stolen vehicle to when 
she got home via public transport. She had to call back the following day, which was a 
Saturday. 
Miss S says she had to ask for a hire car as it wasnt offered to her. She was then told that 
she couldnt have it until a weekday. Miss S says she took time off work on the Monday to 
chase up the hire car and to wait for it, after she was promised it would be delivered. She 
didnt receive the hire car until the Tuesday. 
Miss S then found that her hire car had only been booked for 2 days, instead of the 28 days 
she was entitled to, which meant she had to contact Admiral to sort it out. She was also 
given conflicting information regarding the insurance cover for her hire car. 
Admiral told Miss S that it wouldnt be able to deal with her motor insurance claim because 
her car was worth less than the amount she owed on her policy. It said her policy would be 
cancelled, her no claims bonus would not be affected, and no premium would be owed as 
she was unable to claim. However, Miss S received conflicting information about this, 
including a letter which said her cover had been reinstated.
Admiral attempted to take around £2,000 from Miss Ss bank account on more than one 
occasion. It also sent her correspondence which stated shed defaulted on her credit 
agreement because the direct debit couldnt be taken.
Miss S raised several concerns with Admiral about the service shed received from it, as well 
as its decision not to deal with her claim. 
Admiral maintained its position not to deal with Miss Ss car insurance claim on the basis 
that the value of her stolen vehicle was worth less than her outstanding premiums. However, 
it agreed with several of Miss Ss other complaint points and paid her £300 for distress and 
inconvenience. Admiral said it had passed some of her concerns to the company who had 
arranged her hire car. 
Miss S remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. She said she 
also wanted Admiral to pay her at least one year of her salary to compensate her for the loss 
of her job. This was in addition to her other losses and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2023 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S has raised a number of concerns about Admirals actions. However, My role requires 
me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill 
focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute.
Outcome of motor insurance claim
Admiral says it didnt deal with Miss Ss claim because it wasnt viable. It says Miss Ss car 
was worth less than the outstanding balance on her policy at the time of her claim, which 
was £2,321.41.
The policy terms say the most Admiral will pay to settle a claim for loss or damage to a 
vehicle is the market value of the vehicle. 
Market value is defined as: The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. The value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral hasnt provided us with evidence of the checks it completed. However, our service 
has completed checks using the guides available to us. These produced valuations of 
£1,675, £2,325 and £2,375. Even if I was to disregard the lowest valuation, the remaining 
guides valuations of the vehicle are similar to the amount that appears to have been 
outstanding on Miss Ss policy. And according to Miss Ss policy schedule the excess for 
theft was £150, which Admiral was entitled to take off a settlement. So, this would have 
reduced the settlement to below the amount outstanding on her policy.
The policy terms say that Admiral is entitled to stop cover immediately and cancel your 
policy if your vehicle is deemed a total loss or is stolen and unrecovered.
The policy terms also say: If a claim has been made during the period of insurance, you 
must pay the full premium and no refund will be given. And If a claim is made and you have 
not paid in full, we may deduct the outstanding premium from any claim settlement we make 
to you. We will not refund premium for changes made to your policy after a claim.
Given what it says in Admirals terms, I think it was reasonable for it to have reached the 
conclusion that Miss S would have been worse off if it had proceeded with her claim. Her 
policy still would have been cancelled, and she would have ended up owing Admiral money 
because the settlement wouldnt have been enough to cover the outstanding premium.
I appreciate Miss S was placed in the unfortunate position of having no vehicle and no cash 
settlement. However, Miss Ss policy, like most motor insurance policies, is a yearly contract 
with a premium payable upfront. From what I can see, Miss S took out a credit agreement to 
allow her to pay it back in instalments. Its standard industry practice that no premium is 
refundable if a claim has been made. And Im satisfied that Admirals terms and conditions allow it to deduct the full years premium from any settlement it would make. So, I dont think 
Admiral has acted unfairly here.
Hire car cover
Miss Ss motor insurance schedule shows she was paying for hire vehicle cover as a policy 
upgrade. The hire vehicle cover entitled Miss S to up to 28 days continuous use of a hire 
vehicle if her insured vehicle was stolen. Miss S had the option of receiving a cash payment 
if she didnt require a hire vehicle. 
In its final response to Miss Ss complaint Admiral said it would be passing her concerns 
about the hire car to the company that was responsible for arranging it. However, the policy 
documents show that Admiral is the underwriter of Miss Ss hire car cover. This means that 
its ultimately responsible for the claim, including the actions of agents acting on its behalf. 
Miss S has complained about a delay in receiving the hire car after she attempted to make a 
claim. Miss S says she didnt receive a hire car until four days after her vehicle had been 
stolen. 
I understand that Miss S had difficulty making her claim because Admirals offices were 
closed after she returned home following the theft of her vehicle. She says that when she 
phoned the following day (which was a Saturday) she was told she couldnt have a hire car 
vehicle until a weekday. She says she took time off work on the Monday and had to keep 
chasing for the hire car. She was told it would be delivered that day, but she didnt receive it 
until the Tuesday. 
Miss S says Admiral didnt book the hire car in for the length of time it should have. She says 
Admirals agents rang her at work to arrange collection of the vehicle two days after she 
received it. 
Admiral says it instructed its agent to provide hire car for 28 days and the agent had 
provided Miss S with inaccurate information. I can see that Admiral contacted the agent to 
make sure the hire car was in place for 28 days once Miss S had brought this to its attention. 
From what I can see, Miss S was incorrectly advised that the car hire would end sooner than 
it should have again a couple of weeks later. According to Admirals notes this was due to an 
automatic termination after Miss S was involved in an accident in the hire car vehicle. 
Admiral has noted speaking to its agents following contact from Miss S. I can see it emailed 
Miss S to confirm that she would continue to have a hire car until the 28 days were up which 
meant it would continue until 13 December 2022.  Admirals notes show that the hire car 
provision was later extended to 3 January 2023 as a gesture of goodwill. And Miss S has 
told us the car hire didnt end until a couple of weeks after that. 
I appreciate Miss S feels she should have been given a hire car sooner. However, the terms 
of the policy dont specify how quickly a hire car will be provided. I dont think the length of 
time Miss S had to wait for a hire car was unreasonable, given that her car was stolen on a 
Friday afternoon. 
However, I think the communication Miss S received was poor. Admiral hasnt explained why 
Miss S didnt receive the hire car on the Monday as Miss S says she was promised. Miss S 
was incorrectly told on at least two occasions that her car hire was coming to an end much 
earlier than it should have done.  Miss S says she was interrupted at work by Admiral and its agents, and she also needed to 
contact Admiral several times to sort things out. So, Im persuaded that Miss S experienced 
unnecessary frustration and inconvenience because of these errors. 
However, Miss S was provided with a hire car for over two months, which is more than 
double what she was entitled to under the terms of the policy. So, Ive kept this in mind when 
considering if Miss S should be paid any additional compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Customer service and communication
Miss S has raised several other concerns about the customer service and communication 
she received from Admiral and its agent. 
Miss S says shes been left with no car because Admiral continuously provided her with false 
information. She says shes been caused to feel anxious about taking out insurance 
elsewhere because Admiral helped itself to money she didnt owe and threatened legal 
action. 
Being without a car is a huge inconvenience for Miss S, who has told us that her sons 
school is quite far from where she lives. She says, amongst other things, shes had to pay 
for taxis and sleep away from home. 
Admiral has acknowledged that it didnt provide clear information about the process it 
followed. I can see that Miss S was sent documents suggesting her policy had been 
reinstated after she was told it had been cancelled. She was also given inaccurate and 
conflicting information about the insurance for her hire car. 
I appreciate that Miss S was confused about the status of her claim and her policy because 
of the inaccurate and conflicting information Admiral gave her. However, Admiral clarified the 
status of Miss Ss claim and policy in its final response letter dated 28 December 2022 and 
Miss S has confirmed that there were no further attempts to take money from her account 
after this date. Miss S was allowed to keep the hire car for several weeks after this, which 
gave her additional time to sort out alternative transport and insurance. 
Miss S says shes unable to trust other insurers because of Admirals errors. I appreciate 
she had a bad experience with Admiral. But I think it would be disproportionate to hold 
Admiral responsible for Miss Ss reluctance to take out insurance elsewhere. 
It looks like Admiral attempted to take almost £2,000 from Miss Ss bank account on at least 
two occasions. Miss S was sent a letter of default in November, and she sent us a 
screenshot to show that the money was taken from her bank account in December 2022.
Miss S says the money taken from her account in error was returned to her by her bank, 
rather than from Admiral. She also says she missed out on buying concert tickets because 
her payment didnt go through. 
I dont doubt that it was distressing for Miss S to have money taken from her account in error 
and to receive correspondence notifying her of potential enforcement action. This also 
resulted in inconvenience for Miss S who needed to contact her bank to recover the funds. I 
understand it was disappointing for Miss S to lose out on purchasing concert tickets because 
there were insufficient funds in her account as a result of Admirals error. However, Admiral 
has apologised for this and appears to have considered the impact on Miss S in the 
compensation its paid.  Miss S says she lost her job because she spent so much of her time away from her desk 
because of needing to deal with Admiral over the phone.
Admiral has acknowledged that Miss S spent a lot of time on the phone trying to speak with 
it about her claim and complaint. Some of the handlers couldnt help her because they 
werent trained on a new system. Miss S spent a lot of time on hold and having to repeat 
herself as she was passed to different handlers. 
I recognise that Admirals errors and the difficulties Miss S had communicating with it caused 
her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. She needed to spend time and effort sorting 
these issues out. Ive considered this in determining an appropriate amount for 
compensation. However, I havent seen evidence to persuade me that Admiral is responsible 
for Miss S losing her job. So, I dont intend to award her compensation for this.
In conclusion
I recognise that Admiral is responsible for a number of issues in the handling of Miss Ss 
motor insurance and hire car claims. Ive thought carefully about the impact of Admirals 
errors on her. 
Admiral has paid Miss S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of its errors. It also extended the use of the hire car for more than a 
month after Miss S was entitled to it. So, Ive thought about whether or not this was enough 
to put things right.
Clearly a lot went wrong, and Miss S was caused a lot of frustration and inconvenience. But 
this was over a relatively short period of time. These matters were resolved within around six 
weeks of Miss Ss vehicle being stolen. So, on the whole, I think Admiral dealt with her claim 
and complaint relatively quickly. 
Whilst I empathise with Miss S for the ongoing difficulties shes experiencing, Im not 
persuaded that Admiral is responsible for Miss S being without a car or losing her job. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss S, who I understand is going through a 
difficult time. But I think the £300 Admiral has already paid Miss S, along with the extended 
car hire, is enough to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she experienced 
as a result of Admirals errors and poor communication. So, I dont intend to tell Admiral to 
do anything further.
I wish to reassure Miss S Ive considered all of her points, but if I havent mentioned a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Neither party responded with any further information or comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any comments or additional information for me to consider, I 
see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman