DRN-1545733
The complaint
Mrs G complains that PSA Finance UK Limited applied unfair charges at the end of her 
agreement. She wants the disputed charges waived.
What happened
In August 2016 Mrs G was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with PSA. 
When the car was returned in September 2019 it was inspected. PSA later invoiced Mrs G 
for damage charges.
Mrs G disputed the charges, which she feels are unfair. Shes unhappy about being charged 
for two services and a missing log book. She says she didnt know she had to arrange 
servicing and shes never been provided with the log book. She disputes the dent in the rear 
bumper and says the car was immaculate when she handed it back.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said the damage charges had been fairly 
applied.
Mrs G wasnt happy with the outcome, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs G would be concerned to be invoiced for charges she wasnt 
expecting.
Mrs G acquired the car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result this 
service can look into complaints about it.
Mrs gs responsibility was to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the agreement. This includes a clause requiring her to return the car in good condition, fair 
wear and tear excepted.
BVLRA guidelines on fair wear and tear are a recognised industry guide used to provide a 
consistent approach to the assessment of damage when a car is returned.
Briefly summarised, the disputed damage relates to a dent in the bumper, scuffs to the rear 
left wheel, two missing services and a missing log book.
Ive seen photos of the car which were taken at around the time of inspection. Ive looked at 
the inspection report and Ive taken into account the relevant guidelines. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that the dent in the bumper and the scuffs on the wheel fall outside the 
fair wear and tear guidelines. The investigator has already explained how the guidelines 
relates to these items of damage, so I wont repeat it here.
In relation to the missing services, its Mrs Gs responsibility to make sure the car is serviced 
yearly. Shes acknowledged that she didnt do this. The BVLRA guidelines say that the 
service book should be stamped to show that the services have been completed. Because 
the car was returned without having been stamped, Im satisfied that PSA have applied this 
charge fairly.
In relation to the missing log book, the BVLRA guidelines say that the car must be returned 
with the V5. Mrs G says she was never provided with the log book. Generally it would be up 
to the dealer to provide the log book and because I wasnt present at the point of supply I 
cant be certain of whether it was given to Mrs G or not. However, if it wasnt given to her at 
the point of supply, I think Mrs G ought reasonably to have realised and queried this at the 
time. I cant see that she did so. On balance, I think its more likely that the log book was 
provided to Mrs G. And because it wasnt present when the car was returned, I think the 
charges have been fairly applied.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im of the view that PSA is entitled to charge for the damage 
and that the charges have been applied fairly. So I wont be asking PSA to waive the 
charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman