DRN-1839900
The complaint
Mrs W, on behalf of Mr L, has complained about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance 
UK Plc under a park home insurance policy following a fire claim.
What happened
Mr L moved out of his park home and it was put on the market for £115,000. He accepted an 
offer of £107,500.
Not long after in September 2019 the home was damaged beyond economical repair by a 
fire.
To settle his claim AXA offered £107,500 less the 10% commission which Mr Ls site 
operator would charge a seller on the sale of a park home.
Mrs W didnt think this was fair. She said:
She was never told an amount equal to the sale commission would be deducted from any 
settlement.
The sale could have fallen through at any point, so commission might not have been 
payable.
The property could have been remarketed for the original asking price of £115,000.
Mrs W brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought 
the basis of AXAs settlement was fair.
As Mrs W didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Park homes are often insured on a new for old basis. Ive looked at the documentation sent 
to Mrs W after she told AXA that the park home was no longer occupied pending the sale. 
On 1 August AXA issued a revised schedule of insurance. It said at the top in a different 
colour type that the reason for the issue was Endorsement. It asked the policy holder to 
check that the level of cover met their needs. 
Under the heading Endorsement on the 4th page it said:
PARK HOME UNOCCUPIED AWAITING SALE
Claims arising under this insurance will be settled after making a deduction for wear, tear 
and depreciation.
I think this wording made it sufficiently clear that if the park home was damaged beyond 
repair, AXA was no longer liable to replace it with a new one. Effectively that means it had 
become a policy of indemnity. Indemnity policies aim to put the policy holder back in the 
position they were in just before the loss or damage happened. In Mr Ls case I think that 
means giving him the net amount hed have received if the sale of his park home had been 
completed. If AXA had paid him the full amount of £107,500 offered by his buyer, hed have 
been better off as a result of the fire than if the sale had completed (and theres no reason to 
think it wouldnt) because hed have saved on the commission costs hed have been charged 
as part of the sale.
I appreciate that the sale might not have gone through even if there hadnt been a fire. Its 
also possible that if that happened, someone might have been prepared to pay the full 
asking price of £115,000. But I expect insurers to take into account the specific 
circumstances of a claim and bear in mind whats reasonable when deciding how to settle it. 
I think thats what AXA did in this case. Thats because it seems to me more likely than not 
that the proposed sale would have completed were it not for the fire and in that case the 
10% commission would have been payable to the site owner. I also think the offer of 
£107,500 that Mr L had accepted for the home was a more realistic starting point than the 
original asking price which might not have been achieved if the home had been put back on 
the market.
The effect of the endorsement is that AXA would settle any such claim on the basis of what 
the policy holder had actually lost. Since thats what AXA did in my opinion, I dont think it 
treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman