DRN-3814771
The complaint
Miss A complains that Amazon Payments UK Limited withheld funds after it closed her 
Selling on Amazon payments account.
What happened
Miss A had a Selling on Amazon payment account. The account allowed her to sell products 
through Amazon and then hold and transfer funds to a bank account. In January 2021, the 
selling arm of Amazon deactivated Miss As account  it told Miss A that it had received 
complaints about the authenticity of some stamps Miss A had sold through the account. It 
said that in order to reactivate the account she would need to provide proof of authenticity 
together with steps she proposed to take to ensure shed comply with Amazons policies in 
future.
Miss A provided some information. But the selling arm of Amazon decided to suspend Miss 
As account. And on 27 January 2021, Amazon Payments told Miss A that the remaining 
funds in her Selling on Amazon payment account would be withheld. On 4 February, the 
selling arm decided Miss A could no longer sell on Amazon.
Amazon Payments told Miss A that it couldnt disburse her funds until a 90-day hold period 
expired, on 27 April 2021. At that point, Amazon Payments said it wouldnt return these 
funds based on its policy on withholding funds. Dissatisfied, Miss A referred the matter to us.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 11 November 2022. I said that based 
on what Id seen, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Based on what Id seen, 
Amazons selling arm had received complaints that goods Miss A had sold were inauthentic 
 and asked Miss A for proof of authenticity. Miss A had provided some invoices. But 
Amazon had said it found the information Miss A sent them unsatisfactory. Id asked Miss A 
if she could send me the original documentation shed received from the supplier, but Miss A 
said she could no longer provide these. Given Amazon Payments concerns, I couldnt say it 
had acted unfairly. And so I didnt think the complaint should be upheld or that Amazon 
Payments did anything further to put things right. I said Id consider any further comments I 
received by 9 December 2022.
Miss A has replied. She says that the purchasers who had complained about the goods had 
all received refunds  and so the remaining funds in her account related to sales to 
customers who hadnt complained. She also says that her partner had an account on 
Amazon and used the same invoices when matters of authenticity arose  and Amazon 
reinstated that account. She wants me to share details as to why the invoices werent 
accepted. Finally, she says authenticity claims and non-satisfactory complaints are often 
made on Amazon from competitors, and is common on Amazon, and has no bearing on the 
actual product.
Amazon Payments says it has nothing further to add.
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amazon Payments asked Miss A to provide proof that the goods shed sold were authentic 
before it would consider releasing her funds. As I said in my provisional decision, Miss A 
provided some invoices, but Amazon Payments didnt find the information Miss A had 
submitted satisfactory.
Miss A wants to know more. She says her partner used the same invoices  which she says 
were accepted by Amazon without issue. But while I appreciate Miss A would like further 
information about this, Amazon Payments doesnt need to provide further details. And I 
cannot comment on what happened to her partner.
Ive considered Miss As further comments. But I dont find them persuasive. I note that 
Miss A says shed sold other goods without complaint. But given Amazon Paymentss 
concerns, and the applicable terms and conditions, I cant say it was unfair for it to withhold 
the funds. I also note Miss As comments about complaints about complaints about 
authenticity more generally. But in this decision I ndeed to consider the actions of Amazon 
Payments in the individual circumstances of Miss As complaint. Im still satisfied that what 
Amazon Payments has done here is fair.
With all this in mind, I reach the same conclusions as my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint and Im not going to tell Amazon 
Payments to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman