DRN-3312186
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the amount esure Insurance Limited paid in settlement of his car 
insurance claim.
Mr A is represented by Mrs K. For ease, Ive referred to comments made by Mrs K as being 
made by Mr A. 
What happened
When Mr As car was stolen, he made a claim on his car insurance policy with esure. esure 
valued his car at £22,038 but said they would only settle a proportion of his claim because of 
an undisclosed speeding offence Mr A had. As such, they deducted £4,202.65 and offered 
him £17,835.35 subject to the policy excess.
Mr A says the valuation didnt include the modifications to his car, which he said would 
increase its value considerably. Mr A provided evidence of the modifications, but esure didnt 
change their valuation. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the average of the 
figures esure obtained from the guides and the ones he obtained were in the £22,000 range. 
As such, he thought esures valuation was fair. He said the valuation guides didnt have the 
specific modifications listed as options, so he thought it meant they didnt make a difference 
to the cars market value. He also said we rarely see instances where modifications or extras 
increase the final market value figure of a car. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says:
if we looked at each modification and compared it to similar cars that hadnt been 
modified, it would make it clear that those with the modifications would attract a 
higher value. 
the modifications would impact the value of the car or esure wouldnt have asked for 
proof of them and would not have resisted adding them to their valuation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his review of Mr As complaint, our investigator also considered esures decision regarding 
Mr As speeding offences. However, I havent considered that here, instead Ive focused on 
what remains in dispute which is esures valuation of Mr As car. Having done so, I agree 
with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. Ill explain. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer have applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the car fairly. 
Under the terms of Mr As policy, esure must pay him the market value of the car, less his 
excess.
The policy defines market value as:
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, 
Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides 
give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age 
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. We usually find the guides more reliable than 
individual adverts, which can vary significantly and can be misleading as vehicles may not 
be sold at the advertised price once negotiations take place. That said, adverts have their 
place and are a good indication as to whether the figures produced by the guides are 
reasonable.
Mr As car had modifications made to it by its previous owner, but Mr A doesnt think esure 
considered them when they valued his car. He provided a copy of a certificate from a 
specialist brand, O, which detailed the modifications that had been made to the car. 
Occasionally, a vehicle may have modifications to it which increase its worth, but often we 
find these optional extras dont add as much value as one might think, and will often reduce 
in value over time. 
I accept O modifications can at times add to a cars value, but esures engineer concluded a 
full O conversion hadnt been carried out to Mr As car. He also said it was only modified to 
make it look like an O modified car on the outside, therefore esure didnt increase their 
valuation. Ive thought about what the engineer said, and I think its reasonable. Ultimately, 
even though they concluded they made no difference, Im satisfied the modifications were 
considered as part of esures valuation, and I dont think its unreasonable for them to rely on 
the engineers expert opinion.
As our investigator said, the guides dont give the option to specify the type of modifications 
Mr As car had. So, Ive looked at the adverts he provided and carried out my own research. 
In doing so, I found the adverts Mr A provided were for cars with a larger engine and of a 
different model variant to his, so I havent relied on them as their prices are far above those 
Ive seen for comparable cars. 
In my research, I found there were few cars of the same model variant as Mr As car, that 
had similar modifications to his. So, I also looked at other models around the same age and 
mileage with similar modifications to Mr As car, and I compared the prices to comparable 
cars without the modifications. I didnt find much difference between the advertised prices for 
the modified cars and those without the O modifications. Therefore, I think its unlikely the 
modifications to Mr As car will have had a significant impact on its value. As such, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for esure to rely on the figures produced by the valuation guides.esure say they took an average of the figures they obtained from four guides. Our 
investigator carried out his own search and looked at three of the same guides as esure did, 
and these produced values of £23,503, £22,500, and £21,860. We usually find a fair 
valuation would fall somewhere between the range of figures suggested by the guides. 
esures value of £22,038, falls within the range of figures produced by the guides, and is in 
line with advertised prices Ive seen, so I think its fair. I know this will be disappointing to Mr 
A, but Im satisfied esure carried out a fair valuation of his car, so I wont ask them to do any 
more than they already have. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman