DRN-3365639
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Lloyds Bank PLC has managed his packaged bank 
account. 
What happened
Mr L has a Club Lloyds account. A main feature of this is that the customer can, each year, 
choose a Lifestyle benefit. These are either free cinema tickets, a magazine subscription, 
or a Gourmet Society membership giving discounts on meals. 
Mr L had chosen a Gourmet Society membership; but, in 2019, he decided he was unhappy 
with Lloyds sharing his personal data with the administrator of the Gourmet scheme, and so 
the membership was cancelled. Mr L says he told Lloyds his reasons for this at the time. The 
following year, however, Mr L found that Lloyds had renewed his Gourmet membership. 
Lloyds says that, when Mr L contacted it to cancel in 2019, he hadnt cancelled the Gourmet 
membership within the annual month-long window, which is set in the terms and conditions. 
This meant that the next year, again as described in the terms and conditions, the system 
defaulted to the choice he had made in the previous year. This meant, because he hadnt 
made a new choice, the Gourmet membership was reissued.  
Lloyds says the cancellation was successfully registered in the applicable period in 2021 and 
so this will remain his account status  and, as long as Mr L does not contact Lloyds to 
make a choice of benefit, the account status will be no benefit options chosen. 
One of our adjudicators said they thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr L didnt 
agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I do understand why Mr L is annoyed. He says he instructed Lloyds not to share his data 
with the benefit provider, and that Lloyds still went ahead and renewed his membership. It 
seems Mr Ls request was treated, by the Lloyds staff and system, as being a benefits 
choice. If Mr L did make clear his data-privacy reasons in 2019, this wouldnt have been 
an adequate way of dealing with the issue  even if, strictly speaking, Lloyds complied 
with the terms of the scheme.
In its final decision letter, sent to Mr L in response to this complaint, Lloyds seems to be 
saying that each year Mr L would need to log on or call, to renew his opt out. If that really 
is the only way Lloyds could deal with the issue, it would have been helpful its Lloyds had 
made clear that Mr L still had the choice of changing his account away from the Club 
Lloyds account. 
However, in Lloyds letter to us, it has confirmed that the cancellation will be permanent. 
So it seems that Lloyds system for dealing with such an issue is either cumbersome and 
inconvenient  or that the final decision letter missed the point, and didnt acknowledge that 
Lloyds hadnt properly acted on Mr Ls instructions. 
If its that the system is cumbersome and not customer-friendly, that isnt really something for 
me to comment on as an ombudsman, unless overall it is causing a significant injustice. 
And, if this was a failure to properly act on Mr Ls instructions, I also dont think it serious 
enough for me to take action. Mr L has been caused inconvenience and annoyance; but we 
are all caused that, from time to time, when dealing with a large organisation. It is only a 
matter for the ombudsman when it is at a significant level. 
If, however, Mr L believes that his data protection rights have been impinged, he would need 
to refer that to the Information Commissioner. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman