DRN-3603853
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited because it declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr D has private medical insurance with AXA. He claimed for his cataracts removal in both 
eyes however his claim was declined. Mr D would like AXA to pay his claim. 
AXA said that Mr Ds policy was taken out on a moratorium basis, meaning that theres no 
cover available for any pre-existing medical conditions. AXA said it asked Mr Ds optician 
when his cataracts symptoms began, so it could determine whether this predated the 
policys inception. But this was done using a medical information request form, usually 
completed by a GP, rather than an optician. Mr D and his optician said it wouldnt be 
appropriate to provide the requested information using that format and so no details were 
given. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said that AXA was entitled to verify the 
claim by asking for more information about when Mr Ds symptoms began. He suggested Mr 
Ds optician confirm the requested information by letter so that AXA could verify his claim. 
Mr D still felt this was unfair and so its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. This isnt a complicated case, put simply, AXA is 
asking the specialist involved with Mr Ds treatment to confirm information so it can 
determine whether cover is available for the treatment hes had. 
I think the medium used to provide this information is irrelevant. I take on board Mr Ds 
comments about the ombudsman expecting his optician to sign paperwork designed for a 
GP being untruthful. But thats not whats being suggested here. AXA said the optician is 
free to provide additional information in which ever format suits best. The point here is that 
AXA needs to verify whether Mr Ds claim meets the policy terms. 
I should also highlight that this request isnt anything unusual, nor is it unusual for a 
specialist to add supplementary comments by the method suggested by AXA. Therefore, I 
disagree with any suggestion that AXA is being obstructive, or treating Mr D unfairly, by 
asking for additional comments from the optician in the way it has here. Its for these reasons 
I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint because I dont think AXA has 
treated Mr D unfairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman