DRN-2524470
The complaint
Miss W says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by Miss W in January 2009. She 
took the policy out with MBNA on its website. The policy covered Miss W against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment.
Miss W says the policy was mis-sold to her. She says she would never knowingly agree to 
something that would cause her a financial loss. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. Miss W disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I dont think MBNA gave advice, so I dont need to consider whether the policy was suitable. 
It did need to provide clear information so that Miss W could make an informed decision.
Ive decided to not uphold Miss Ws complaint because:
I am satisfied that Miss W chose to protect her credit card repayments, knowing there 
would be a cost to do so. MBNA has provided a screen shot of what Miss W would have 
seen when she applied for the card. The screen shot shows PPI being presented. It 
broadly describes the purpose of the cover right next to where it appears Miss W would 
have clicked a box saying Yes to the cover. There was the option to say No.  So, 
I think Miss W would have known about the PPI policy and also that she had a choice to 
have it.
The information MBNA gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But it doesnt look as if better information would have put Miss W off anyway 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She says she had 12 months 
full sick pay but has been unable to provide our service with evidence to support what 
she has said with this. 
I am persuaded based on what I have seen, that Miss W would have found the benefits 
provided by the policy useful in a difficult time over an extended period to cover her. The 
cost of the PPI policy was relatively low (compared to others in the market). And the 
policy provided Miss W with a safety net, at a good level of benefit, which with her 
circumstances at the time of sale, she would have considered useful if she needed it.
I couldnt find anything else within the policys terms and conditions that would have put 
Miss W off buying it like a restrictive or significant term, at the time of sale.
In conclusion, I have not been able to find any grounds to uphold this complaint about the 
mis-sale of the PPI policy. This means MBNA dont have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss W. But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Miss W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss W.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman