DRN-2342840
The complaint
T, a business, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided a debit card for its account 
that could not be used.
What happened
T received a new debit card in August 2019 and tried to use this to make withdrawals. It was 
unable to do so even when the PIN was changed. When it complained Barclays told it that 
this was a card issued in error for an account that had been closed. And T could not have a 
debit card on its still open business savings account. It paid £200 in compensation to the 
owner of T.
Our investigator did not recommend that it do anything more. The current account was 
closed in February 2018. T had not attempted to make debit card payments until August 
2019 and so the inconvenience was of trying to use the card then. To access the savings 
account T would need to make transfers or go into a branch to withdraw money. Hed 
checked that the £200 compensation had been paid and he didnt see that Barclays had 
offered to pay the £1,000 T said it had or that it should clear the owners personal overdraft.
T did not agree. The owner said that Barclays should at least clear the overdraft. He had 
raised concerns at a branch and been given short shrift. He was unclear why if there was 
money left in the account it was frozen. Hed been told that this was a full business current 
account and he could have a debit card by the same branch. Despite being told that 
Barclays would not contact him again while the complaint was being looked at it had written 
to him about the overdraft. It had not dealt with the complaint fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to clarify here that Im looking at a complaint about Ts business account and debit 
card. I appreciate that its owner made a separate complaint about his personal account and 
Barclays said that was resolved.
The information provided by Barclays shows that the business current account was closed in 
February 2018. It had not been used for some time before that. The savings account 
remained open and from July 2019 T made transfers out from the account. T clearly then 
wanted to make debit card payments. And through a systems error it was still possible to 
request a debit card for the old account. I dont doubt that T was given the impression that it 
still had a full current account. Barclays accepts that this was an error and it shouldnt have 
been possible to request the card in the first place. Ive seen evidence that the owner of T 
did try to use that card to make withdrawals which were unsuccessful.
Barclays paid £200 for the inconvenience this caused and said that T did not have a current 
account. 
I know that the owner of T asked for higher compensation. And I can see a documented 
case note when he was reported to say to Barclays that if it offered him £1,000 he would not 
refer his complaint to this service. In the complaint form to this service the owner says he 
discussed this and was promised a call back about it that never came. I dont have any more 
information about this but even on Ts account I cant see any firm offer was made. Barclays 
position is as set out in the final response letter.
The owners personal overdraft is not something Im looking at in this complaint. But I 
understand the point is that T wants further compensation to cover this within the total of 
£1,000. I need to decide what the appropriate level of compensation is. Im forming my own 
judgement on that taking into account our published guidelines. And I consider that the 
payment made by Barclays was reasonable to reflect the error made about the debit card 
and what it said about Ts account. So, I know the owner will be disappointed when I say that 
I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
need do no more that it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman