DRN-2619920
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the impact of Admiral Insurance Company Limited making a 
payment in settlement of her claim under her car insurance policy to the wrong account with 
her finance company. 
Miss W has also complained about the way Admiral handled her complaint about this and 
other mistakes. However, I am only able to consider Miss Ws complaint about Admirals 
original error. 
What happened
Miss Ws car (car A) was written off in an accident at the beginning of March 2020. Miss W 
eventually accepted Admirals settlement offer and left them to pay the amount due to the 
company (Company B) who had provided the finance for car A. Company B had also 
provided the finance for Miss Ws other car (car M) and she had a separate account for this. 
When Admiral made the payment, they paid it to the finance account for car M. This cleared 
the account for car M. 
Miss W realised that the account for car M had been cleared and discovered this was due to 
Admirals error in paying the amount to settle her claim to the wrong account. She contacted 
Admiral to complain. Admiral spoke to Company B and they told them that Miss W would 
need to contact them to sort things out. Miss W did this and Company B reinstated the 
account for car M and reloaded the amount due under it. And they made sure the payment 
by Admiral went to the account for car A.
Miss W has explained that when the account for car M was cleared the direct debit for the 
repayments due under it was cancelled. This meant when Company B requested the next 
payment under the reinstated account for car M, it was refused and noted as a missed 
payment on her credit record. Miss Ws explained how this reduced her credit score 
dramatically. And shes said she was prevented from trying for credit to buy a new car to 
replace car A. This meant she was without a car for around three months in the first lock-
down as part of the UKs response to the COVID-19 pandemic. And it meant Miss W had to 
go and get her other car back from her mother, who lives some distance away, so she could 
get to work when she returned to the office in June 2020. And it wasnt until she had this car 
that she had a car she could use. 
Miss W has said the reduction in her credit score also limited her access to credit that she 
wanted to use for other reasons. It also resulted in a reduction in her credit limit on a store 
card. Miss W has also explained how she had to spend many hours on the phone with 
Company B trying to sort out the issue with her credit report. And shes said Admiral were 
disinterested and no help at all. 
Miss W complained to Admiral and they paid her £325 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, although they also made a mistake when making the payment, which they 
had to correct. Miss M wasnt happy with Admirals response to her complaint and 
complained to us. 
One of our investigators considered Miss Ws complaint and suggested Admiral should pay 
a further £125 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Admiral agreed to do this, 
but Miss W doesnt think its enough and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Having reviewed Miss Ws complaint, I spoke to her to help me understand what had 
happened and to understand the full impact of Admirals error. Miss W also told me that she 
only finally managed to get her credit record put right at the end of March this year and was 
only in a position to finance a replacement car at the end of January. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals records suggest they made the payment to the account for car M as a result of an 
email forwarded by Miss W from Company B, which had the reference for the finance 
agreement for car M on it. I cannot see the actual email on Admirals records, so I accept 
this may not have been what happened. And I appreciate Miss W doesnt recall providing 
Admiral with details of her credit agreement for car M. But, Admirals notes suggest this 
could be what happened. So it could be that Company B accidentally used the wrong 
agreement reference in an email to Miss W, which she inadvertently passed on to Admiral. 
However, this does not alter the fact that Admiral already had both agreement numbers with 
details of which car each applied to. So, they clearly should have known which reference 
needed to be used to make the payment to Company B for car A. So, its clear Admiral did 
make a mistake, which theyve accepted. And their mistake in using the wrong reference 
started a sequence of events which led to a negative impact on Miss Ws credit score and 
the problems that flowed from this. 
As Ive said, Admiral have admitted they made a mistake and made the payment in 
settlement of Miss Ws claim to the wrong account. And they did contact Company B to try to 
help sort this out. They had limited success with this, as they were not actually party to the 
finance agreement Miss W had with Company B. And it was really left with Miss W to sort 
out the issue with the missed payment and correcting her credit record with Company B. And 
this clearly took a great deal of time and effort. However, in deciding what the fair and 
reasonable outcome of this complaint is, I dont think I can ignore the possibility that certain 
things outside Admirals control, once it had made the initial mistake, clearly had a significant 
impact on Miss Ws situation and the level of distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
Miss Ws has explained that when the account for car M was cleared the direct debit was 
cancelled and it wasnt reinstated when the account was reinstated and the balance 
reloaded. And shes said Company B didnt tell her she needed to reinstate the direct debit 
or set up a new one. And it was the fact there wasnt a direct debit set up that led to the 
missed payment on the account. And I dont think this is something Admiral could have 
known would happen and so there was no way they could have been expected to warn Miss 
W. And it was this missed payment that had a negative impact on Miss Ws credit record and 
credit score. This did flow from Admirals initial error in making the payment to the wrong 
account, but I think it would be unfair to say Admiral are solely responsible, when the issue 
with the direct debit was outside of their control.
I can also see Miss W had to spend a lot of time on the phone and in correspondence with 
Company B to try and sort the issue out. And she feels Admiral could have done more to 
help. But I think Admirals ability to help was limited by the fact that they were not party to the 
credit agreements Miss W had with Company B. And I can see from Admirals records that 
Company B refused to discuss the matter with Admiral on several occasions. And Admiral also had no control over the actions Company B took and the speed they took them with.  
So, while I do think Admiral should pay a significant amount of compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience that flowed from their original mistake, I think that the total amount of 
£450 suggested by our investigator is appropriate, bearing in mind that Admiral had no way 
of controlling or anticipating the actions of Company B. In saying this, I do understand how 
strongly Miss W feels about the matter and that she thinks Admiral let her down completely. 
But, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable for both parties to this complaint based on 
all the circumstances. 
I also appreciate Miss W was without a car for around three months and had the distress of 
having to take her other car back from her mother. But the period she was without a car was 
in a national lock-down and she would only have used it once or twice a week to travel to the 
supermarket, as she was working from home. And, although I can see she really had no 
choice other than to take her other car back, causing distress and inconvenience to her 
mother, I can only award compensation to Miss W for the distress this actually caused her 
personally, not for any impact on her mother.  
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I think Admirals agreement to pay Miss W a further £125 (making the total 
amount it will pay £450) in compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable. So this is what I think it should pay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss W a further 
£125 in compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman