DRN-2166473
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying Tech 
Pack, that he took out online on 26 March 2020.
Mr C says that he took out the Tech Pack so that he could apply for a £100 interest free 
overdraft facility. Mr C says that the Tech Pack was mis-sold because he tried to apply for 
the overdraft online, but he was unable to proceed with his application.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and she didnt think that Barclays had mis-
sold the Tech Pack. Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything 
provided, I dont think the Tech Pack was mis-sold.
Mr C says his Tech Pack was mis-sold because, when he applied for the Pack online, the 
terms and conditions said he would be eligible to apply for an overdraft facility which would 
be interest free for the first £100 (subject to application and credit status etc). But he says 
when he went to apply for the overdraft, it would not let him get through the application 
process.
Based on what Mr C and Barclays say about the terms and conditions, its clear that Mr C 
was not guaranteed an overdraft by having the Tech Pack. The terms and conditions only 
said that he was eligible to apply for one, but any overdraft application he did make would 
still be subject to application and credit status. And Mr Cs testimony indicates he was aware 
of this when he agreed to the Tech Pack. Therefore, I cant reasonably say that the Tech 
Pack was mis-sold simply because Mr Cs online application for an overdraft was not 
approved. 
Unfortunately, its not clear why Mr Cs online overdraft applications were unsuccessful. And 
I appreciate that not having his applications approved mayve been frustrating for him. But 
Barclays was not obliged to give Mr C an overdraft. And in response to his complaint, I can 
see that Barclays did offer Mr C alternative methods to apply for an overdraft if he wanted to 
try again - either by calling a telephone number or by visiting a branch. 
Mr C says that he was not comfortable doing this due to his ill health and only wanted to 
apply for one online. But I think Barclays did provide Mr C with reasonable alternatives for 
applying for an overdraft, if applying for one online was unsuccessful. For example, Mr C 
couldve taken someone with him to Branch, if he was not comfortable speaking to a 
member of staff himself. Or if attending branch was not feasible, had he called up, he 
couldve completed the security questions on the telephone and then arranged for someone 
he trusted to speak to Barclays on his behalf, to see if he could get an overdraft added to his 
account.
Finally, Mr C says that he spoke to someone at Barclays who said his Pack was mis-sold 
and told him hed received a full refund. However, in Barclays final response to the 
complaint, it said that it did not think the Pack was mis-sold, so was unwilling to give him a 
refund of the Pack fees. Although Barclays did offer to pay Mr C £25 for how his complaint 
was initially dealt with.
Because I dont think the Tech Pack was mis-sold, I dont think it would be appropriate to 
require Barclays to refund Mr C the Pack fees, despite what he mayve initially been told. I 
say this especially as he did register mobile phones under the mobile phone insurance, 
during the short time he had the Pack. So whilst Mr C didnt get the £100 interest free 
overdraft that he wanted, he did still receive some benefit of having the Pack in that time. 
And although I think this matter mayve caused inconvenience to Mr C, I think Barclays offer 
to pay him £25 as a gesture of good will was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman