DRN-4034063
The complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc gave her misleading information about transferring 
money.
What happened
Ms N held an existing Santander Individual Savings Account (ISA) and opened a new ISA 
which paid more interest. She wanted to transfer money between the accounts and make a 
new payment into the new account. Ms N says the information she received from Santander 
was not clear as she didnt want to merge an ISA. She would like Santander to allow her to 
fund her new ISA in the tax year 2022/23 with a further £20,000 as she intended and pay her 
compensation for what took place.
Santander says it makes clear in a number of documents namely the account terms and 
conditions and the key facts documents that any money withdrawn from an ISA will lose tax 
free status. And any transfers between an ISA must be done on an ISA transfer form in 
compliance with tax rules, which Ms N did not do.
Ms N brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
thought Santander explained that when the ISA was opened, a form must be used to 
transfer an ISA. The investigator didnt think Santander provide advice.
Ms N doesnt accept that view and says she didnt want to merge her ISAs which is what the 
e-mail refers to, and says the documents distinguish between an ISA transfer and deposit. 
She maintains the information was misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms N appreciates that the ISA rules are not set by Santander and that it must 
follow the relevant tax rules which make clear that any transfers from an existing ISA into a 
new ISA must be completed by, as in this case, Santander. I dont think Santander has any 
choice but to follow those rules.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions, key facts documents, and the e-
mail Ms N received when the account was opened. The terms and conditions make clear 
that Santander is not providing advice on the product and says any ISA transfers must be 
made using a form. I can see that a warning is made clear that any money withdrawn from 
an ISA loses its ISA status. I can also see that warning is repeated in the key facts document 
and also explains that money repaid into an ISA in those circumstances counts towards an 
ISA allowance. So, Im satisfied that Santander made clear before Ms N applied for both 
accounts what the ISA rules were and that any transfers must be made using a form. 
The key issue Ms N complains about is the e-mail she was later sent by Santander after the 
account was opened. I have made clear that I think Ms N ought reasonably to have been 
aware of the relevant rules at the point she opened the account, as she had agreed to the 
terms and conditions and would have seen the key facts document. 
The e-mail explains the procedure for transferring an ISA from a different provider and 
makes clear that an ISA form is required. The e-mail goes on to explain that to transfer an 
existing Santander ISA a transfer form is required. I accept the e-mail also says, to merge 
into one single ISA. So, Im satisfied there is clear instructions that to transfer an ISA that a 
form is required either internally or externally which is the same information that is provided 
in the terms and conditions and in the application process. Im also satisfied that the 
requirement to use a form is as a result of the ISA rules and it is made clear. It follows that I 
dont think Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly by concluding that by Ms N funding 
the ISA by a withdrawal, that counted towards her ISA allowance for that tax year.
I appreciate Ms N says she didnt want to merge her ISA and I accept that Santander could 
have provided clearer information on those that wish to keep an existing Santander ISA 
open. But I think there was sufficient information provided before that e-mail that an ISA 
transfer had to be made by Santander or a different provider using an Isa transfer form. I 
dont think it entirely clear in any event why Ms N says she wanted to keep the existing ISA 
open as I can see she told us that the existing ISA paid a lousy interest rate and she 
wanted to take advantage of the higher rate offered on the new ISA. She also said she 
wanted to transfer the full balance from one account to another.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander has made clear in a number of different documents that 
an ISA transfer form needed to be completed and that any withdrawals from an ISA by a 
customer would result in ISA status being lost. I also think the e-mail whilst not as clear as it 
could have been, was sufficiently clear that again a form was needed for an ISA transfer. I 
think that this was Ms Ns decision to withdraw the money, made without advice from 
Santander. So, I cant fairly order it to pay compensation or take any further action in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman