DRN-4323270
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the sale of an annuity by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential).
What happened
Mrs P had a pension plan with Prudential. She used this to purchase an annuity and the 
payments from the annuity began in February 2007. 
Mrs P complained about the sale of this annuity in 2023. She said Prudential shouldve told 
her about the option to search the whole of the market to obtain a potentially better income 
and referred to the relevant regulations she thought applied. And she said she had health 
conditions which may have meant shed be eligible for an enhanced annuity, but Prudential 
didnt tell her about this option either.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. It said the regulations quoted by Mrs P hadnt come 
into effect until some years after she bought her annuity. And it said it had made her aware 
of both the open market option and the enhanced annuity options when it had written to her 
a number of times in the months leading up to her retirement date. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs P referred the complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into 
the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied Prudential had made 
Mrs P aware of the option to shop around with other annuity providers and the potential 
option of an enhanced annuity. 
Mrs P didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems all parties agree that Mrs Ps annuity was set up on a non-advised basis. This 
means Prudential didnt need to check it was right for Mrs P. But it did need to give her 
enough information on her options. And thats what Ive focussed on here when considering 
Mrs Ps complaint. 
As our Investigator noted, the regulations, specific to pensions, which Mrs P has referred to 
werent in place at the time she bought the annuity. However, there were other, more 
general rules in place at the time, which said Prudential must pay due regard to its 
customers interests, treat them fairly, and communicate clearly, fairly, and not provide 
misleading information. Furthermore, there was guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers which set out the best practice for people reaching retirement age. This included 
sending a wake up pack and a reminder letter and what they ought to include.
Mrs Ps selected retirement date was January 2007. In August 2006, Prudential wrote to 
Mrs P reminding her that her chosen retirement age was coming up, this was the wake up 
pack. The cover letter for this reminded Mrs P that she could look into taking an annuity from 
another provider under the open market option. It also enclosed a leaflet called Getting 
ready to use your pension. On the second page of this leaflet, it said:
You have the right to shop around for the type of retirement income you need.
On the following page, there was more detail given. Under the header taking the open 
market option it explained more about shopping around with other providers. Under the pros 
and cons section, when talking about the open market option, Prudential said: you could 
end up with more income.
Prudential also sent Mrs P a retirement options brochure  the reminder letter  later on. 
Whilst I wont quote further details here, this also set out more information about the open 
market option and told Mrs P she could shop around to see if she could get a different or 
better income with another provider.
Furthermore, when Prudential wrote to Mrs P confirming the benefits she would be getting 
under the annuity she had chosen, it again reminded her of the open market option and 
advised she had 30 days to cancel this annuity and take this option instead. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied Prudential, in line with the rules and guidance in place at 
the time, took sufficient steps to make Mrs P aware that she could use the open market 
option and shop around to see if she could obtain a higher income in retirement.
Moving on to whether Prudential took sufficient steps to make Mrs P aware of the potential 
option of an enhanced or impaired life annuity, Ive noted that Prudentials Getting ready to 
use your pension booklet confirmed an enhanced annuity rate may apply if the pension 
fund, after taking tax free cash, was £20,000 or more. 
This leaflet went on to explain that: 
if you and/or your partner suffer from serious ill-health you may qualify for a higher-than-
normal retirement income.
It later stated, under the header What if Im in poor health?: 
If you or your partner is suffering from a serious medical condition, your retirement may not 
last as long as someone who is in good health. If so, we may be able to pay you a higher- 
than-normal retirement income from a Prudential annuity. 
And it went on to clarify the nature of the medical condition was relevant to whether 
Prudential might offer an enhanced rate or not saying it must be one thats likely to shorten 
your life, such as some cancers, diabetes, or disease of the kidneys, heart or lungs. 
It continues by explaining that Mrs P should complete the enclosed questionnaire if she 
thought she might qualify for this. And it again encouraged Mrs P to seek financial advice on 
this matter. 
So Im satisfied that Prudential did enough to make Mrs P aware of the potential option of an 
enhanced annuity, and what she needed to do if she wished to explore this option further.
In summary, I recognise Mrs P feels disappointed and she thinks she mayve been able to 
obtain a higher income in retirement than she currently receives, either with another provider 
or by way of an enhanced annuity. However, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Prudential did enough to make Mrs P aware of both these options and put her in the position 
of making an informed choice. So, Im not going to ask it to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman