DRN-2336329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Scottish Widows Limited didnt convert their level term 
assurance policy into a decreasing term policy at the end of the fixed term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a level term life assurance policy in 1995. The policy had an option to 
convert the policy into a decreasing term policy for a longer period. This option had to be 
exercised by the 55th birthday of the elder policyholder.
Mr and Mrs G have said that they exercised this option and telephoned in 2020 after they 
had been told their policy was coming to an end. Mr and Mrs G were told they were no 
longer able to convert the policy as that option ran out in June 2015. Scottish Widows 
explained that it had sent a quote to convert the policy in 2015 but it didnt receive anything 
back so it wasnt converted.
Mr and Mrs G believed they would get a new policy at the end of their current one, as part of 
the convertible option. They complained when they found out this wasnt the case.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that there was nothing to show 
Scottish Widows had done something wrong. He said that there was an option to convert 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy and that it was clear they asked for a quote for this. However, there 
was nothing to show that the relevant application was made. He didnt think there was a duty 
for Scottish Widows to chase or remind Mr and Mrs G of the option and that call notes 
suggest that the option hadnt been taken.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They explained they did ask for the policy to be converted and feel 
they were told in a call in 2015 that the new policy would start at the end of their current one. 
They explained they wouldnt have bought the policy otherwise. As no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs G believe they had taken out the option to convert the 
policy, my role here is to see if Scottish Widows has done something wrong. I dont think it 
has and Ill explain why.
The policy that Mr and Mrs G bought does have the option to be converted into a decreasing 
term policy at the end of the fixed term. And I can see that Scottish Widows wrote to Mr and 
Mrs G on 30 April 2015 to say that this option had to be exercised by 2 June 2015 at the 
latest. It highlighted this in bold on the letter. Its clear that Mr and Mrs G received this notice 
because they wrote to Scottish Widows asking for a quote.
Scottish Widows has provided me with screenshots showing that a quote was generated for 
Mr and Mrs G and I think its likely this was sent out. But it didnt receive any response. This 
means the convertible option wasnt applied for in time. I can see that there was a call in 
October 2015 between Mrs G and Scottish Widows. Whilst Ive not been able to listen to this 
call the note suggests the end date and fixed sum assured were both mentioned. If the 
policy had been converted this likely wouldve been different.
Mr and Mrs G say they were told that a new policy would start at the end of their current one. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest Scottish Widows told them this. I know it must be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs G, but Im unable to uphold this complaint. Theres no evidence 
to suggest that Scottish Widows has done anything wrong when it didnt convert Mr and 
Mrs Gs policy. I also dont think there was any reason for Scottish Widows to chase or 
remind Mr and Mrs G. It had given them clear instructions as to the last date they could 
apply for their policy to be converted, and the necessary paperwork wasnt completed in this 
time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman