DRN-3346700
The complaint
Mr A complains about Unum Ltds handling of his dental insurance claims.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2022. Heres what my findings said:
Mr A claimed £1,272 for dental treatment. Unum responded to say hed claimed £1,113, 
and that his claim had been approved.
I think this correspondence was confusing. The figure Unum referred to as being the 
amount claimed wasnt correct. I also wouldve expected Unum to have explained why it 
wasnt paying the full £1,272 that Mr A had claimed.
When Mr A queried this with Unum, it said that it would only cover three implant 
crowns rather than four. It said the reason for that was because it doesnt reimburse 
individually when two are next to each other.
I also think this correspondence was confusing, particularly as Unum doesnt say 
why it wouldnt reimburse two implants next to each other.
The benefit schedule explains that Unum wont pay for more than one implant if a bridge 
could be fitted as an alternative. I think Unum should have made this clear to Mr A from 
the outset.
When Mr A still didnt accept Unums decision on his claim, Unum explained the above 
term, and said it would contact Mr As dentist to see if Mr A couldve had a bridge as an 
alternative to the implants.
I wouldve expected Unum to have done this in the first place, instead of assuming that Mr 
A couldve had a bridge simply because he was claiming for two implants next to each 
other.
Mr As dentist then confirmed that a bridge couldnt have been fitted as an alternative to 
the two implants next to each other, and so Unum paid the outstanding £159.
Mr A later claimed £400 for treatment. Unum responded to say that the claim had been 
approved, but it would only be reimbursing £100. However, again, Unum didnt say why it 
wasnt paying the full amount. Unum also said that £380 of the claim was for anaesthetic.
Mr A responded to Unum and pointed out that he was claiming for implants not 
anaesthetic. He wanted to know why Unum had underpaid the claim by £300.
Unum had only paid £100 because it thought the implant that Mr A was claiming for 
had already been paid, however Unum accepted that it had made a mistake. It then 
paid Mr A the outstanding £300 a few weeks later.
I cant tell Unum what its processes should be, but it seems to me that much of this 
confusion couldve been avoided if Unum had made it clear to Mr A at the outset 
why it wasnt paying his claims in full. The issues couldve then been addressed.
Although Unum has now settled the claims in line with the policy terms, I think it handled 
the claims badly. I intend to require Unum to pay Mr A £200 compensation to recognise 
that its handling of the claims caused him unnecessary confusion and upset.
Our investigator asked Unum to pay interest on the late claim payment of £159, as 
this wasnt paid until 5 March 2021 even though Unum accepted in January 2021 that 
it was payable. Unum agreed to this, which I think was reasonable.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made my 
final decision.
Mr A responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
Unum responded to confirm it had no comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as neither party has made any further comments, Im satisfied my provisional 
findings should remain, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to pay Mr A £200 
compensation.
I further require Unum to pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the late payment of 
£159 from the date the rest of that claim was paid to 5 March 2021.
If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman