DRN-2885127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about mortgage advice they received from Mortgage Advice 
Bureau Limited (MAB) in 2020. They are concerned that the mortgage they were sold 
doesnt end until they are in their mid-70s, by which time they will have retired. They feel no 
consideration was given to their circumstances and whether they would be able to afford the 
mortgage after they retire.
In settlement of the complaint, they would like assurances that the mortgage is affordable 
beyond retirement or the mortgage altered to take account of their retirement. If changes are 
needed, they want MAB to be responsible for any costs associated with it. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs S asked MAB to provide them with mortgage advice. The fact 
find from the time detailed that Mr S was 49 years old.  Mrs S was 50 years old. Both were 
employed full time and they had a net income of over £3,000 per month. They had an 
existing mortgage of £138,000 on an interest-only basis with a remaining term of 20 years. 
They had no repayment vehicles in place to repay the mortgage and it was detailed that 
theyd have to sell at the end of the term. Mr and Mrs S wanted to re-mortgage their home 
on a repayment basis for the same amount over a term of 25 years. Their budget for the new 
mortgage was £801. In addition to the mortgage, Mr and Mrs S also had slightly over 
£37,000 of unsecured debt, approximately £17,000, of which they wanted to consolidate into 
their mortgage.
MAB initially recommended a repayment mortgage with a high-street lender for £183,000 
with a five-year fixed rate over a term of 31 years. It was detailed that the term was to fit in 
with Mr and Mrs S budget as the monthly payment would be £648.60 per month.
Subsequently Mr S asked MAB if they would have to provide the lender with pension 
projections, as hed been told they would be needed when hed made enquiries at a local 
branch of the recommended lender. They were told by MAB that the requirements of each 
lender would be sorted out when an application was made  theyd speak to the underwriter 
at the time to find out what was needed.
The following month, Mr S contacted MAB to tell it that he and Mrs S now wanted to 
increase the mortgage to £190,000 to allow for debt consolidation and some home 
improvements. He asked for a five-year fixed rate and a term that would make the payments 
lower. 
The mortgage adviser has told us that he and Mr S had a conversation at this point about 
Mr and Mrs S wanting to consolidate debts into the mortgage, and Mr S was determined that 
this should happen. As such the conversation turned to the term of the mortgage  lending 
into retirement and/or working until age 75. The adviser recollected that Mr S had said both 
he and Mrs S could work to age 75. Following this, the adviser sent Mr and Mrs S quotes for 
two mortgages. The first was for a mortgage with the lender it had previously quoted with, for 
a mortgage over 30 years. The second was with a different lender for a term of 20 years 
(matching Mr and Mrs S existing mortgage term) and it was pointed out that this was 
because that lender would only lend to a maximum age of 70. 
Mr S confirmed that he and Mrs S wanted to go for the mortgage with the 30-year term. 
There were some changes to the recommendation over the following week due to lenders 
changing their lending criteria and some information about Mr S credit file coming to light. A 
mortgage was eventually applied for at the end of March 2020 for £168,495 over a term of 
25 years. The mortgage had a five-year fixed rate attached to it and monthly payments of 
£718.04. The application form said Mr and Mrs S were planning to retire at age 75.
Mr and Mrs S raised their complaint about the term of the mortgage with this service. We 
referred it to MAB and it responded; it didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was satisfied that 
they knew what the term was and that it would end after their state pension age and selected 
retirement dates. It had offered Mr and Mrs S shorter term mortgages with higher 
repayments, but theyd selected the longer term and were clearly aware that it went beyond 
retirement as theyd asked if the lender would require pension estimates.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with MABs response and asked this service to consider the 
complaint. Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs S what they would have done, if the mortgage 
had proven to be unaffordable on their pension income. They said they would have 
remained with their existing mortgage, Mrs S would have changed from working part-time to 
full-time and they would have waited until they could afford the shorter term mortgage. They 
also confirmed that they intended to retire at the state pension age of 67 and so wanted 
MAB to write off the mortgage that will be outstanding at that point. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She was concerned about the retirement 
age detailed in the mortgage application, as there was no contemporaneous evidence to 
support Mr and Mrs S choosing that retirement age. As such she proposed that MAB should 
arrange for affordability into retirement be checked by the lender. 
The mortgage lender confirmed that if Mr and Mrs S retirement age had been recorded as 
67, it wouldnt have done an affordability check to establish if the mortgage would be 
affordable beyond retirement. It would verify that they were paying into a pension and would 
do this from their payslips. It wouldnt ask for any further proof of pension schemes or 
pension forecasts. 
The investigator reconsidered the evidence following the information provided by the lender. 
She explained that it is the lenders responsibility to assess affordability, based on the 
information passed to it by the broker. She considered that the lender had said, even if Mr 
and Mrs S retirement ages had been detailed as 67 on the application, rather than 75, it 
wouldnt have required detailed pension income information and wouldnt have completed a 
separate affordability assessment for the period after retirement. As such, she didnt think 
MAB had done anything wrong when it handled the mortgage application. She also 
commented that she was satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were aware at the time of the sale of 
the mortgage that it wouldnt end until after theyd planned to retire. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It isnt clear whether the MAB adviser had a conversation with Mr and Mrs S about when 
they wanted to retire initially or, if the mortgage was to go beyond retirement, how they 
would afford to pay it. However, as the existing mortgage ended in retirement, there was 
possibly at least an assumption that they were comfortable with this happening given their 
existing mortgage ended after retirement. 
I would also comment that in order for Mr and Mrs S mortgage to be repaid before either of 
them reached state retirement age, the mortgage would have needed to have a term of 16 
years; a shorter term than they had on their existing mortgage. That would considerably 
increase the amount they needed to pay to their mortgage on a monthly basis. In addition, 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to pay off the capital balance and were taking on a larger mortgage 
debt; which would have again significantly increased the cost in comparison to their existing 
interest-only mortgage. The monthly payment for the new mortgage Mr and Mrs S took, is 
around double the amount they had previously paid to their interest-only mortgage and was 
close to their budget for the mortgage.
Our investigator explained that it is for a lender to assess affordability, not the broker, 
although most will do some basic checks. In this case, the lender has said that it wouldnt do 
the type of check Mr and Mrs S believe should have been done before the mortgage was 
granted. In that situation I cant find that MAB did anything wrong in not gathering information 
for such a check to be done or for not doing one itself. 
In addition, I think it is clear that Mr and Mrs S knew the mortgage they were applying for ran 
past their state pension dates. Indeed, Mr S asked whether the first lender that was 
recommended would want information to assess affordability after retirement. He was 
correctly told that different lenders have different requirements and any information needed 
would be asked for when the application was submitted. I also consider given the 
significantly increased costs changing to a repayment mortgage would have involved for the 
new mortgage, the advisers comments that Mr S asked that a term be selected to keep 
costs low seem likely to be accurate.  
Overall, I am not persuaded that MAB acted inappropriately when it sold Mr and Mrs S the 
mortgage it did.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman