DRN-2059861
The complaint
Miss A complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave her incorrect information 
about a cancelled direct debit on her current account. She also complains it gave her poor 
customer service when she contacted it about that.
What happened
Miss A has a Halifax current account, with a direct debit set up to pay a business Ill call 
Company P. Miss A says that in July 2019 Company P told her shed missed a payment 
and that shed cancelled her direct debit. Miss A says she called Halifax about this on 24 
August 2019, and it said Company P cancelled the direct debit. Miss A says she contacted 
Company P again and a new direct debit was set up. 
Another direct debit payment to Company P failed, so Miss A called Halifax on 
20 September 2019 to find out what was happening. Halifax said it needed to check things 
with its online banking team and put Miss A on hold. At Miss As request, Halifax transferred 
her to the online banking team, which told her shed cancelled the direct debit through her 
mobile banking app. Miss A didnt think she had, and thought the agent was patronising her. 
So she asked to speak to a manager to complain. The manager confirmed Miss A had 
cancelled the direct debit. Miss A was unhappy with that and ended the call.
Miss A called Halifax back later that day as she was unhappy with how shed been spoken to 
earlier. Miss A asked Halifax if it could wait for a few minutes, as she might be called into a 
medical appointment. In any case Halifax put Miss A on hold for 17 minutes while it listened 
back to the calls. When Halifax returned, Miss A was unhappy about being on hold for so 
long and wanted to log her complaint. Halifax said it couldnt finish logging the complaint 
unless Miss A stayed on the line. But Miss A ended the call as she needed to start work. She 
called Halifax back later that day to finish logging her complaint.
Halifax didnt uphold Miss As complaint. In its final response, it said the direct debit was 
cancelled using Miss As online banking on 28 May 2019. It said it had reviewed the calls on 
20 September 2019 and its agents had been polite and professional, gave Miss A correct 
information and kept her informed about what was happening. Halifax said it had reviewed 
Miss As calls since 28 May 2019 and not found it had given her incorrect information 
regarding the direct debit.
Miss A was still unhappy so she brought her complaint to our service. She provided 
telephone records to show shed called Halifax on 24 August 2019. She said Halifax 
patronised her and kept her on hold for a long time in the calls on 20 September 2019. And 
that Halifax didnt investigate her complaint properly, as the complaint handler had previous 
dealings with her, had already made up his mind and didnt listen to all the relevant calls. 
After looking into things, our investigator said the direct debit was cancelled through Miss As 
mobile banking app using her fingerprint, not by any error of Halifaxs. She accepted what 
Miss A said about the call on 24 August 2019, but said Halifax gave her correct information 
in the call on 20 September 2019. Our investigator thought Halifax had communicated 
professionally with Miss A and hadnt done anything wrong by putting her on hold, though it 
shouldnt have done this a second time after Miss A had said she was unhappy about being 
put on hold earlier. 
Miss A disagreed, saying our investigator hadnt addressed all her complaint points. In a 
later call with our service, Miss A said our investigator hadnt addressed Halifax putting her 
on hold for half an hour to listen to calls whilst refusing to wait for her medical appointment. 
As Miss A disagreed with our investigator, her complaint has come to me for a decision.
After I reviewed Miss As complaint, our service asked Halifax why it had told Miss A she 
needed to stay on the line while it listened back to calls and logged her complaint. Halifax 
said it shouldnt have done that and offered to compensate Miss A for her distress and 
inconvenience. Our investigator told Halifax she thought £200 was fair compensation for this, 
and Halifax agreed.
On 22 July 2020 I issued my provisional decision, in which I said:
cancelled direct debit 
Im satisfied the direct debit wasnt cancelled because of any error on Halifaxs part. Thats 
because Halifax system records show the direct debit was cancelled by Miss A through her 
mobile banking app, using biometric security. 
I accept what Miss A has told us about Halifax incorrectly telling her Company P had 
cancelled the direct debit. Thats because while Halifaxs contact notes show no record of a 
call on the day in question, Miss As mobile phone records show she had an eight minute 
call with Halifax that day. And shes consistently told Halifax and our service that Halifax said 
Company P cancelled the direct debit in that call. 
I think Halifax giving Miss A that incorrect information caused her some inconvenience and 
frustration, as shes said it meant she made further calls - one to Company P and another to 
Halifax - before Halifax then gave her the correct information about her direct debit. Ill return 
to this inconvenience later.
customer service
Miss A says the three Halifax agents she spoke to patronised her when she first called about 
her direct debit on 20 September 2019. Ive heard that the three agents correctly say 
Halifaxs records show Miss A cancelled the direct debit herself. Miss A didnt agree with that 
and ultimately chose to end the call. But nonetheless, I think the three agents listened to 
Miss A, tried to resolve things for her and spoke to her professionally and politely. 
Miss A also says the first agent in that first call kept her on hold while they talked to the 
online banking team. But they were trying to resolve Miss As query, and Ive heard they kept 
her informed about what was happening. Queries cant always be resolved immediately, and 
that was the case here. That agent put Miss A on hold for a total of nine minutes, which 
I dont think is an unreasonably long time. And about halfway through they came back to 
Miss A to explain where things were up to. So I dont think Halifax did anything wrong here. 
But in the second call Miss A made to Halifax that day, Halifax put her on hold for more than 
17 minutes while it listened back to her previous calls. And it told her it couldnt finish logging 
her complaint unless she stayed on the line. Halifax itself has now said that was incorrect, 
and Ive heard from the call that unnecessarily being put on hold for that length of time 
caused Miss A inconvenience and frustration. Miss A has emphasised that Halifax did this at the same time it told her it couldnt wait while 
she finished her medical appointment. I heard Halifax tell Miss A it could wait for a few 
minutes but not for very long. I dont think it would be reasonable or appropriate to expect 
Halifax to wait for Miss As medical appointment to end. But I can understand why Miss A 
feels this was unfair given Halifax went on to unnecessarily put her on hold.
So Im satisfied Halifax gave Miss A some incorrect information and some poor customer 
service, and that this caused her inconvenience and frustration  as a result she made two 
unnecessary phone calls and was unnecessarily kept on hold for 17 minutes. I think the 
£200 suggested by our investigator is fair and reasonable compensation for that 
inconvenience and frustration.  
complaint handling
Miss A complains Halifax didnt investigate her complaint properly. However, our service isnt 
free to look into every complaint thats brought to us. Instead we have to abide by the rules 
set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Dispute Resolution Handbook, known as the 
DISP rules. DISP rule 2.3 sets out the kind of activities we can consider complaints about. 
Ive addressed Miss As other complaint points because I think they are about, or closely 
linked to, Halifax providing her with payment services  they happened during calls Miss A 
made to Halifax while she was trying to find out what had happened with her direct debit. 
And DISP 2.3 lists payment services as one of the activities our service can consider.
But Miss A has also complained that the Halifax complaint handler didnt listen to the 
relevant calls and had already made their mind up as theyd previously dealt with Miss A. 
Complaint handling isnt an activity listed in DISP 2.3 and I dont think the particular 
complaint points Miss A has raised about Halifaxs investigation of her complaint are linked 
to it providing her with payment services. So I think the DISP rules mean I cant consider 
how Halifax went about investigating Miss As complaint. In any case, if Miss A was unhappy 
with Halifaxs response to her complaint then she had the right to refer her complaint to our 
service for an impartial investigation. Which she did.
Miss A and Halifax confirmed they had no further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider. Therefore, Ive gone on to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss A and Halifax havent provided me with any further evidence or comments to 
consider, I see no reason to change my decision.
Putting things right
Halifax should pay Miss A £200 compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience and 
distress it has caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
pay Miss A £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman