DRN-3962762
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about his Scottish Widows Limited personal pension. Mr B originally 
complained because he hadnt received a clear explanation from Scottish Widows as to why 
it hadnt taken a pension payment from his bank account since 2019. It has subsequently 
transpired that Scottish Widows shouldve ceased taking pension payments from Mr B in 
2009 and it has offered to put things right. Mr B remains unhappy because Scottish Widows 
has failed to provide him with the information he requested before accepting the offer.
What happened
Because the facts and circumstances leading up to this complaint are known by both parties 
and are not disputed, I dont think it is necessary to set everything out in detail here. So 
briefly:
In August 2021 Mr B discovered that Scottish Widows hadnt taken a pension payment from 
his bank account since 2019. Scottish Widows told Mr B that it was due to a system error. 
Because Mr B wasnt happy with this explanation, and because hed lost out on two years 
worth of profits on the premiums and Scottish Widows didnt tell him how it could rectify this, 
he complained to Scottish Widows and shortly after he brought his complaint to us.
Further investigation from Scottish Widows over the following weeks discovered that the real 
reason it stopped collecting Mr Bs payments was because his pension plan had a retirement 
date of age 60, so no premiums were collected after July 2019. And the reason Mr B wasnt 
told about this in 2019 was because Scottish Widows didnt have an up-to-date address for 
him  it had received returned mail from his old address in 2014 and Mr B hadnt notified it of 
his new address. 
Scottish Widows also acknowledged the inconvenience and poor service Mr B had received 
in bringing the matter to its attention (including the length of time hed been on the phone) 
and it paid him an initial amount of £160, which was later increased by another £100. In 
addition to the above, Scottish Widows identified that there was a possibility Mr B shouldnt 
have been making pension contributions to his pension because it appeared hed been living 
outside of the UK for more than five years.
Despite this Scottish Widows allowed Mr B to set up a new direct debit mandate and his 
contributions commenced again in February 2022. Scottish Widows then cancelled the 
mandate in May 2022.
Scottish Widows subsequently clarified the position with regards to Mr Bs ability to continue 
making pension contributions. It said that Mr B notified it he was moving abroad in 2003. 
It said there are UK tax rules surrounding the circumstances in which an overseas resident 
paying into a UK pension can continue to do so and attract tax relief. It said that, following a 
phone call with Mr B, it was satisfied that he did not meet any of the specific criteria laid out 
in the rules, which would allow him to continue making contributions. As a result it said 
Mr Bs relievable pension contributions shouldve ceased after five years  his last 
contribution shouldve been for the 2008/2009 tax year. It said that in the circumstances the 
right thing to do would be to refund all of the premiums paid after this point  it would also 
have to return the overpaid tax relief to HMRC  and because it deemed it was partly at fault 
for allowing Mr Bs contributions to continue, it would pay 8% (per annum) compensatory 
interest on each months net premium paid.
Scottish Widows also added that it was willing to pay Mr B an additional £500 in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused.
One of our investigators looked at all of this and they said Scottish Widows offer was fair. 
They said the return of Mr Bs premiums was necessary and that the payment of 8% 
compensatory interest was in line with what the Financial Ombudsman Service would 
typically award in the circumstances. They also said that £500 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr B was fair given the repeated mistakes Scottish 
Widows made and and lack of clarity with the information it provided.
Before accepting the offer, Mr B asked Scottish Widows to calculate the compensation so he 
could see a figure and not just a methodology. He also asked for a valuation of his pension  
both a backdated value and a current value after the premiums had been refunded.
In November 2022 Scottish Widows carried out the calculation and provided the figures  a 
total amount of £6,287.27. But despite assurances that the valuations would be forthcoming, 
Scottish Widows has not provided them.
In December 2022 Mr B told us that hed received two payments into his bank account from 
Scottish Widows - £128.64 and then £3,9521.02  and then a withdrawal of £353.76. 
Because Scottish Widows did not reply to our request for an explanation about these 
payments, and with the valuations still outstanding, Mr B asked for the matter to be passed 
to an ombudsman.
The complaint was therefore passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that in trying to understand from Scottish Widows why it had not taken any pension 
payments from Mr B since 2019, he encountered a poor level of service and was initially 
given the wrong information. It seems to me that Mr B spent more time trying to get to the 
bottom of things than he should reasonably have done. Scottish Widows acknowledged its 
failings and it offered Mr B £260 in total, which he accepted. And as far as this initial aspect 
of Mr Bs complaint is concerned, I think this is fair.
What was initially a matter about missed pension contributions, has now changed into 
something more. Its clear here that Mr B no longer resides in the UK and he hasnt been 
living here since 2003. And he told Scottish Widows this. Nevertheless Mr B continued to 
make contributions to his personal pension until 2019, when they ceased because hed 
reached the target retirement age of the plan. It seems Mr B wasnt notified of this because 
Scottish Widows did not have an up-to-date address for him.
Scottish Widows says that because of Mr Bs non-UK resident status, which is not disputed, 
he was only allowed to contribute to his personal pension and claim tax relief for the five tax 
years after the tax year of his departure from the UK. So it says Mr Bs last contribution 
shouldve been in the 2008/2009 tax year ending 5 April 2009. And it has referred to the 
relevant rules setting this out that were in place at the time. The rules in question are set out in IR76  Personal Pension Scheme Guidance Notes  
produced by the Inland Revenue. Looking at this I can see there is a section for personal 
pension members living abroad with no net relevant earnings  as in Mr Bs case  which 
says that: 
A member who is resident outside the UK and has no actual net relevant earnings in a tax 
year is still eligible to contribute to an arrangement in that tax year if one of the following 
applies:... 
And the relevant point here is: at some time in the five tax years preceding the tax year in 
question he has been resident and ordinarily resident in the UK and was resident and 
ordinarily resident in the UK when he set up the arrangement.
So this means that, as Scottish Widows says, Mr B could continue to contribute to his UK 
personal pension for the five tax years following the tax year of his departure from the UK  
i.e. up to 5 April 2009. But as Mr B does not meet any of the criteria which would allow him 
to continue making contributions beyond this point  for example he is not a Crown 
employee  his contributions shouldve ceased after 5 April 2009. Because Mr Bs 
contributions continued until 2019, and they attracted tax-relief, Im satisfied it is necessary, 
and fair and reasonable in the circumstances, to return the excess premiums he paid to 
comply with the rules.
I can see that Scottish Widows has also offered to pay compensatory interest of 8% per year 
on each excess premium Mr B paid. And in the circumstances I think this is also fair. On the 
one hand it could be argued that it was Mr Bs responsibility to have checked what impact 
his move in 2003 might have on his ability to continue making pension contributions to a UK 
pension, including seeking professional advice if necessary. But on the other hand, because 
Mr B told Scottish Widows about his move in 2003, I think it was reasonable for it to have 
contacted him telling him to check the appropriate rules about continuing to make 
contributions given his move overseas. So I think there were failings here. 
Taking everything into account, I think it is fair for Scottish Widows to add compensatory 
interest to reflect the loss of investment opportunity on the monies refunded.
It's clear to me here that Mr B has suffered distress and inconvenience in this matter, not 
least as a result from the confusing situation created by Scottish Widows when it allowed 
Mr B to resume his pension contributions despite telling him at the same time that it wasnt 
sure he was allowed to. Scottish Widows has offered to pay Mr B £500 in recognition of this, 
and taking everything into account, I think this is fair. 
It is disappointing that, despite Scottish Widows providing Mr B with the figures of the likely 
overall compensation, it has not provided him with the valuation figures it said it would 
provide. And it also hasnt told us if the payments Mr B says he received into his bank 
account from Scottish Widows are in connection with the compensation offered. It seems to 
me that if it had provided this information, this matter couldve likely been resolved 
informally.
I can see that because Scottish Widows hasnt provided the valuation statements, Mr B says 
that to resolve things, he wants Scottish Widows to honour the pension value as per his last 
pension statement, which showed a figure of around £55,000. 
I understand Mr W is frustrated by this matter and he wants Scottish Widows to account for 
its poor performance in dealing with this whole matter when it arrives at a valuation figure. But I cant produce a valuation of Mr Bs pension for him or tell Scottish Widows what value it 
should use. Only Scottish Widows can produce this information for Mr B, which I will instruct 
it to do below. And as far as adding something to account for the way Scottish Widows has 
handled things, Im satisfied that both the interest element of the compensation - designed to 
reflect the loss of investment opportunity - and the £500 in recognition of Scottish Widows 
failings, fairly compensate Mr B. So I wont be instructing Scottish Widows to do anything 
more in this regard. 
As I said above, it is disappointing that Scottish Widows hasnt clarified whether the 
payments Mr B says he received into his bank account in December 2022 as I referred to 
above, relate to the offer of compensation or not. This does mean I have no way of knowing. 
So in the circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable way to deal with this is to addresses 
it below in setting out what Scottish Widows needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, Scottish Widows should do the following:
Refund Mr B all of the pension premiums he has paid from 6 April 2009 onwards.
Add simple interest at a rate 8% a year to each premium from when it was paid to the 
date of payment.
If Scottish Widows can clearly show Mr B that the payments he received into his 
bank account, as I referred to above, relate directly to the compensation amount he 
is owed, it can deduct this from the total amount it owes him. Otherwise Scottish 
Widows should pay Mr B the full amount of compensation it calculates.
Provide Mr B with a breakdown of the compensation showing him the premium 
refund, the interest element as well as the total compensation figure.
Pay Mr B £500, as it offered to do, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused Mr B.
Provide Mr B with two pension valuation statements showing the historic value as at 
5 April 2009 and the current value once it has removed the refunded premiums and 
repaid the over-paid tax-relief to HMRC.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct Scottish Widows 
Limited to put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman