DRN-3583625
The complaint
Mr S complains Calpe Insurance Company Limited declined his motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy with Calpe, and he made a claim when his car was stolen. 
Calpe said a third party reported that the car had been involved in an accident around the 
same time. But Mr S said he had no knowledge of the accident. He said he parked his car at 
his mothers house the night before the accident occurred, and stayed at his girlfriends 
home before they went on holiday abroad. He also stated he didnt know his car had been 
stolen until the morning after he returned from his holiday and reported it to the police.
Calpe declined the claim because it thought Mr S had given false or misleading information. 
It said the police charged Mr S for failing to stop at the scene of the accident and for failing to 
report it within 24 hours. It also said the police had confirmed that no theft report was 
available.
Mr S provided evidence he was found not guilty of the charges. However, Calpe still declined 
his claim. It doesnt think the outcome of the case changes things. It said:
Mr S lied when he said he wasnt in the country when the accident happened.
Mr S didnt report the theft/accident to it.
He didnt attend his first interview with its claims investigators.
He was 30 minutes late for the following interview and wouldnt allow them into the 
home.
His friend made a nuisance of himself to interrupt the flow of the interview.
Our investigator didnt think Calpe had carried out a full investigation into Mr S claim that 
gave it fair and reasonable grounds to refuse it. He thought Calpe had relied on the fact    
Mr S was in the country at the time of the incident, and the appointed investigators interview 
was disrupted. He thought its appointed investigators made several recommendations for 
further investigation, but they werent carried out. Our investigator thought Calpe should 
reconsider the claim, and if its paid, it should pay 8% simple interest on the settlement 
figure. It should also pay £100 compensation to Mr S.
Calpe didnt agree and said:
Mr S didnt give a full statement during the first notification of loss call, he didnt 
like the line of questioning, was stalling and muffling, and the call ended abruptly.
He was asked when the car was stolen but didnt respond to the question. He was 
also asked if his mother noticed the car missing and he said no as it was parked in 
the rear of the property. However, it was parked in allocated parking.
The interviewer didnt obtain a full statement and felt intimidated.
Our investigator didnt think this information changed things. As there was no further 
communication from Calpe, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 June 2022 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy says Calpe will provide cover against loss or 
damage, caused by theft and in the case of an accident. Whether or not the car was stolen, 
its not disputed that it was damaged in the accident and has been deemed a total loss, so 
Im satisfied an insurable event has taken place and a claim could be made. However, it 
doesnt automatically follow that the claim should be paid. That will depend on the other 
terms and conditions of the policy. And any exclusions that may apply.
Calpe has given several reasons for declining the claim. Ultimately, it thinks Mr S gave false 
or misleading information regarding the theft and the accident. So, Ive thought about 
whether its carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence available to it and 
reached a reasonable decision.
Mr Ss statement
I accept the information Mr S provided shows he travelled two days after the accident 
happened. However, I havent seen evidence he said he was abroad at the time. Ive 
listened to the phone call where Mr S first notifies Calpe of the theft. The call handler asked 
if he was out of the country on the date of the accident. He responds and says No, I said I 
just got back off of holiday. He also clarifies several times during the call that he returned 
from his holiday and found the car was missing. I dont think his response answers the 
question asked, but I dont find Mr S gave false or misleading information.
In his statement, Mr S confirmed he had no knowledge of the accident and didnt use the car 
on the day it happened. He explained he parked the car at his mothers address the night 
before, and he stayed at his girlfriends home until they travelled abroad. I dont think thats 
an unreasonable explanation and I havent seen anything that suggests it was untrue.
I also find the investigators report supports what Mr S said. This is because, it shows the 
location of the parking and indicates it is at the rear of the property as he said. So, I dont 
think it unreasonable his mother wouldnt have noticed the car was missing.
I accept a full theft statement wasnt obtained during the initial phone call. There seemed to 
be some disturbance throughout the conversation before the call disconnects. Having listen 
to the phone call, I dont think Mr S was unwilling to give a statement or to answer the 
questions he was asked by Calpe.
Its investigators said they werent able to get a full statement as the interview was cut short 
by Mr S. Its not clear what further questions they had for Mr S, but looking at his statements 
and what Mr S told us, Im satisfied he has given a consistent account. Its investigators were 
still able to reach a conclusion and give their expert opinion from the conversation they had 
with Mr S. So, I dont think its reason enough to decline his claim. Calpe could have 
arranged another interview if it still had further questions it wanted answers to.
Calpe says its investigators were intimidated during the interview; however, they confirmed 
the actions of Mr Ss friend at the time did not ruin the interview. Overall, I dont think Calpe 
has shown inconsistencies in Mr S statement during the initial phone call or in his interview with the investigator. Nor has it proven he provided false or misleading information about the 
accident or the theft.
I also dont think its fair for Calpe to decline the claim on the basis that the accident or theft 
werent reported to it. Based on Mr S statement, he wouldnt have known his car was 
missing until he returned from his trip. And wouldnt have been aware of the accident his car 
was in while he was away from his home.
The investigation
Ive also thought about whether Calpe carried out a fair investigation into the claim and I 
dont think it did. I find it could have done more of an investigation to ensure its decision was 
fair.
Its appointed investigators had concerns about Mr Ss theft claim. However, in their report 
they recommended it carry out further investigations into the validity of the claim. The 
investigators suggested Calpe perform a forensic analysis of Mr Ss keys, but it didnt do so.
Furthermore, Mr Ss car was recovered from the accident, an engineer examined it and 
deemed it a total loss. Their report doesnt comment on the theft aspect of the claim and 
makes no mention of theft related damage. I understand the assessment was carried out 
before Mr S made his claim, but as Calpe had access to the car, they couldve arranged a 
further assessment in relation to the theft.
Calpe initially declined the claim as Mr S had been charged with failing to give information 
regarding who was driving the car at the time of the accident. However, Mr S has since been 
found not guilty. Calpe also said Mr S did not report the theft to the police, but I can see the 
appointed investigators confirmed Mr S had reported the claim and provided a log number. 
Once it was aware of this, I think it had a further opportunity to investigate the claim. 
Ultimately, Im not satisfied it carried out a thorough investigation, and I dont think its 
provided enough evidence to support its position. So, I dont find its decision to decline the 
claim was fair or reasonable.
As such, I intend to require it to settle the claim. If in doing so, a settlement is paid directly to 
Mr S, it should pay 8% simple interest per year on this figure from 7 September 2020, the 
date it declined the claim until payment is made. It should remove any markers relating to 
the declined claim from any internal or external databases. It should also provide Mr S with a 
letter to explain this. Mr S confirmed he hasnt replaced his car or taken out new insurance. I 
think Calpes actions will have caused much inconvenience to Mr S, so it should also pay 
£250 in compensation for the trouble he was caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S accepted my provisional decision and Calpe hasnt provided any additional 
comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from what Ive said.
Putting things right
I require Calpe to settle the claim. If in doing so, a settlement is paid directly to Mr S, it 
should pay 8% simple interest per year on this figure from 7 September 2020, the date it 
declined the claim until payment is made. It should remove any markers relating to the 
declined claim from any internal or external databases and provide Mr S with a letter to explain this was done in error. It should also pay Mr S £250 in compensation for the trouble 
he was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint and require Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
to: 
Settle the claim,
if a payment is made directly to Mr S, it should pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date the claim was declined until payment is made*.
Remove any markers include fraud markers relating to the declined claim from any 
internal or external databases.
Pay £250 compensation to Mr S.
*If Calpe Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman