DRN-3075261
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D is unhappy with the settlement provided by QIC Europe 
Ltd following a claim on its business interruption insurance policy.  Mr G who is a director of 
D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf.
All references to QIC include its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
D trades as a pub and restaurant. In December 2019 there was a fire at the pub which 
caused significant structural damage and meant it was unable to trade. D made a claim on 
the property and business interruption sections of the policy it held with QIC. After 
investigations had taken place, QIC accepted the claim at the end of January 2020. 
There were then further discussions about settlement. By mid-March it was agreed the claim 
would be cash settled and repair work should take 12 weeks. QIC said the business 
interruption claim would therefore be paid up until mid-June. A settlement amount was 
advised on 15 April and accepted by Ds broker at that time. Payment was made on 8 May. 
D said work couldnt begin until that payment had been made meaning this wouldnt be 
completed until mid-August (12 weeks later). So it thought the business interruption claim 
should be paid until that date. QIC said it thought the delay in starting work was due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic which wasnt something covered by the policy. Cash settlement of the 
claim had been agreed and it was for D to decide on the timeframe and scheduling of works 
when accepting that settlement. 
Our investigator noted the business interruption claim settlement was based on work starting 
in mid-March. But payment wasnt actually made until May. And he didnt think work could 
have started until that had been done. Ds policy provided for up to 12 months business 
interruption cover and he thought there was a longer period of business interruption than the 
agreed claim settlement anticipated. So he thought QIC should assess the additional losses 
D had incurred from mid-June (when the work should have been completed) until 11 August 
when it actually was. 
QIC didnt respond to the view despite a number of reminders (but did confirm it had 
received it). So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say QIC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the business interruption section of Ds policy which says: 
In the event of Damage to Property used by You at the Premises occupied by You for the
purposes of the Business for which We have admitted liability under Section 1 of this Policy
causing an interruption or interference to the Business which results in a reduction in the
Gross Profit We will indemnify You for:
a) the amount by which the Gross Profit during the Indemnity Period as a result of the
Damage falls short of the Gross Profit which would have been received during the
Indemnity Period had no Damage occurred;
b) the Increased Cost of Working for the sole purpose of avoiding or diminishing the
reduction in Gross Profit during the Indemnity Period but not more than the loss
avoided under (a);.
The policy defines the indemnity period as:
The Period during which the Business results are affected due to the Damage starting from 
the date of the Damage lasting no longer than the Maximum Indemnity Period.
The maximum indemnity period in this case is 12 months. And QIC has accepted Ds 
business was impacted by damage and agreed a cash settlement for the work to reinstate 
the pub. It also paid an amount for business interruption. But, because at the time of 
settlement the reinstatement work hadnt taken place, it included within the business 
interruption claim an estimated period for the work to take place. That period was 12 weeks 
which is in fact how long the work did take once it began. 
But its clear figures in the settlement were based on the assumption work would start in mid-
March and so conclude by mid-June. However, work didnt in fact start until after payment 
had been made on 8 May. So I think our investigator is right to say there was a longer period 
of business interruption than the claim settlement anticipated. 
QIC has suggested the delay in work starting was because of the March 2020 Covid-19 
lockdown as that led to building firms stopping work. So it argued the further business 
interruption loss didnt result from the property damage but from something not covered by 
the policy. I also note there is an email from Ds broker on 24 April which references 
restrictions being lifted meaning work could potentially start on 4 May. 
However, while the government did impose lockdown restrictions in March 2020 those didnt 
prevent construction work from taking place. I note the Secretary of State for Business said 
in an open letter to the construction sector at the end of March The Government has 
advised that wherever possible, people should work at home. However, we know that for 
many people working in construction their job requires them to travel to their place of work, 
and they can continue to do so. 
In addition, in his complaint to us Mr G said the insurers claim that it [the delay] was down to 
Covid but the builder was available to work before the payment was received. In response 
to further questions from our investigator he said the building contractor would not start until 
he was satisfied that we could pay for the works. We could not satisfy him until we received 
the money for the claim, we didnt have the cash available until that point. In his view, the investigator said he thought D had done all it could to mitigate its losses and 
he didnt think there was a valid reason for not including the period up until 11 August in the 
business interruption settlement. He invited further comments from QIC on this. We havent 
received anything (but have had confirmation the view was received). 
On balance, and based on the available evidence, Im satisfied it was the time taken for 
payment to be made rather than the Covid-19 lockdown which caused the further delay to 
the reopening of the pub. As a result, I think it would be fair for QIC to include that additional 
period within the calculation of the business interruption settlement. 
Putting things right
In the absence of any further evidence from QIC I dont see any reason to depart from what 
our investigator recommended is required to put things right which Ive set out below. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd must assess (and pay to D) in line with 
the policy terms any additional business interruption losses from the date when it was 
originally anticipated the work should have been completed (mid-June) until the date it 
actually was (11 August 2020).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G (on behalf of 
D) to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman