DRN-2749523
The complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In 1993 Miss B opened a store card account when she filled in an application in the store 
whilst out shopping. 
At that stage her store card was issued to her without PPI. 
In April 1996 PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 Miss B owed on her store card and it 
protected Miss Bs store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. Miss B disagreed. 
In summary, Miss Bs main complaints were:
that the application form wasnt completed in her handwriting and its possible some 
information on the form was altered after she signed it
there was incorrect information on the application about how long shed been in her 
job  and that wasnt a mistake she was likely to have made 
the store assistant may have filled in the form and Miss B simply signed where 
directed without reading through carefully enough as the process was very rushed 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Our adjudicator thought that Miss B had taken out the PPI at the same time as she signed 
up for her store card. But based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont think 
thats what happened. Miss Bs signed application for her store card shows the date of 
application was in 1993. 
Theres a section on the application headed: Payment Protection  Peace of mind.
It says here: I understand that an optional payment protection insurance plan (details 
attached) is available in connection with this account and will be provided (subject to 
eligibility) unless I initial this box.
Miss Bs initials are marked next to where it says: Payment Protection not required
And that fits with what Miss B told us about her job  at the time she took out her store card 
she had been working for her employer for less than a year. 
And I accept that the store assistant may well have filled in details on the form which would 
explain why Miss B doesnt recognise the handwriting. But that wouldnt be unusual and its 
not a reason to uphold this complaint since it seems the information the store assistant filled 
in on the application reflected Miss Bs wishes at the time and her store card was issued 
without PPI.
AXA told us that it sold PPI to Miss B during a phone call around 3 years later.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording  but I wouldnt expect it to still have call 
recordings from so long ago. And the fact that AXA cant now produce this isnt a reason for 
me to uphold this complaint. 
I also havent seen a copy of the call script used at the time and I dont know what AXA said 
to Miss B when the policy was sold. 
But based on what this service knows about the sales process, as Miss B didnt have PPI on 
her store card, it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main 
features of the policy to see if Miss B wanted to take it out. 
And given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for around 3 
years without PPI, this makes me think Miss B wouldve been aware that the policy was 
optional. 
Looking at what Miss B has told us about her circumstances at the time, I think she couldve 
had a use for the policy. And I can see why she mightve wanted to have the benefits the 
policy could offer her once these were explained to her  even if she hadnt chosen to take it 
out at the start. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss B to remember exactly what happened so many 
years ago. On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account during the 
phone call when Miss B chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the benefits and 
deciding she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I dont think its likely that AXA advised Miss B to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Miss B with clear 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. And even if 
AXA had recommended the PPI, this doesnt affect the outcome of her complaint because 
I think it wouldve been a suitable recommendation if that had happened. Ill explain why 
I say this. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Miss B had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. And it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve made any difference to Miss Bs decision to take it out. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Miss B couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness. It 
couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card each month until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to 
have been a difficult time if Miss B needed to claim  bearing in mind that she mightve had 
extra costs if she was ill or disabled and she wouldve only been able to rely on getting full 
pay for the first 6 months she was off work sick and half pay for only another 6 months after 
that. 
Im aware that her terms and conditions at work included the possibility of some extra paid 
sick leave beyond this. But its not clear in what circumstances that applied  and it wasnt 
guaranteed. 
I've taken into account that Miss B felt that this was already enough cover for her payments 
each month. But the PPI offered better protection than her employer. 
No job is guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. The policy also paid out the same benefit if 
Miss B lost her job unexpectedly and found herself out of work. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Miss B couldve benefitted from having the policy. 
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Miss B to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Miss B had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Miss B  and she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted 
the cover. Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Miss B off 
taking out the policy, given her situation at the time.
Even if AXA didnt give Miss B all the information it shouldve done when it sold her the 
policy, I havent seen enough information so far to be able to say that Miss B has lost out as 
a result of anything that AXA did wrong. So, as things stand, it doesnt need to do anything 
to put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss B disputes that she agreed to take out PPI and mainly says:
- she doent recall any phone call when she was sold PPI
- she had already made it clear she didnt want PPI when taking out her store card 
-she hadnt had the protection for three years so there was no reason for her to require it 
- she didnt need PPI
-she has been in her job for more than 25 years so her job has been very secure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss B feels strongly about his complaint and I dont doubt that she is sure 
about everything shes said. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss B to remember 
events that happened so long ago. And what Miss B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, as 
some of it is here, I must make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened 
taking into account all the information thats available, what the parties have told me and 
also thinking about what we know about these types of sales at that time. This means 
making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be 
impartial. 
Miss B hasnt sent me any new information and Ive already addressed the main points shes 
mentioned in my provisional decision  so I dont think theres anything further I can usefully 
add to what I've said. 
After taking everything carefully into account, and as no further comments have been 
received in response to my provisional decision that change what I think about this case, 
I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman