DRN-2911567
The complaint
Miss J complains that Vanquis Bank Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided a credit 
card to her. She said it had not done a thorough check of her credit history and she is now in 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss J applied for a credit card with Vanquis in July 2018. The application was successful, 
and Vanquis issued Miss J with a credit card with a credit limit of £500. Miss J told Vanquis 
that her personal income was £2,000 per month and that this was the household income. 
Vanquis ran a check on Miss Js credit history and noted that she had £4,900 of outstanding 
debt. It also noted it had been over three years since a default had been reported and 11 
months since a County Court Judgement (CCJ) had been reported. It decided, based on this 
information, that a £500 credit limit would be affordable and sustainable for Miss J.
In September 2020 Miss J complained to Vanquis. She said it had been irresponsible for 
Vanquis to have granted her the credit card in view of her financial circumstances at the 
time. In its final response Vanquis did not uphold her complaint. It said it had found no 
reason to consider it had been irresponsible to grant Miss J an initial credit facility. 
Miss J didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service. She said Vanquis should have 
taken a more thorough look at her credit history; she had missed payments and defaults. 
She said shed been desperate for money so shed tried everything to get some and that 
Vanquis gave her a credit card with £500 limit, knowing she couldnt afford to pay it back.
Miss J also said she had been a single mum to three children since 2005 and hadnt worked 
in 15 years. She said she came into financial difficulties in 2018 which is when she applied 
for the card. She said she is now struggling financially which is affecting her mental health.
Our investigator concluded that Vanquis hadnt acted fairly. He said Vanquis hadnt carried 
out proportionate checks for Miss Js application and he didnt consider it had been borrower 
focused. The investigator also considered whether Vanquis had treated Miss J fairly during 
the time her account was active. He said Vanquis hadnt monitored the account nor did it 
take steps to consider whether it should step in and help Miss J manage her account. He 
recommended Vanquis refund all fees, charges, and interest applied to Miss Js account 
from September 2019 onwards, and to amend her credit file. 
Vanquis didnt agree with these conclusions and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
It provided evidence of its attempts to contact Miss J as well as further comments that its 
checks had been proportionate and that it had had no evidence Miss J was in financial 
difficulty.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2021. I said: 
Miss J has said Vanquis should have declined her credit card application. She said 
had it done a more thorough check of her credit file it would have seen missed 
payments and defaults. I understand that this information may prevent some lenders 
from offering credit. But this wouldnt necessarily mean Vanquis decision to approve 
Miss Js credit card application was wrong.
Vanquis offers cards to people who want to improve their credit rating and because 
they may have poor or absent credit history, sometimes referred to as second 
chance lending. So, it wouldnt be unusual for a customer to have pre-existing debts 
with another lender or for Vanquis to extend lending on that basis.
I would still expect Vanquis to have assessed the affordability of credit to ensure that 
Miss J could afford the repayments. And while its up to Vanquis which checks it 
carries out, they do need to be reasonable and proportionate to the amount being 
borrowed, the cost of repayment and a customers lending history. 
Vanquis said Miss J declared a personal income of £24,000, which was also 
confirmed in the welcome call. It said its searches revealed outstanding external debt 
to be £4,800. It had been over three years since a default had been reported and 11 
months since a CCJ had been reported. It said as a second chance lender historic 
negative information wouldnt necessarily prevent it from granting someone the 
facility. Ive listened to the application welcome call. Miss J confirms her income to 
the operator.
On the application form Miss Jay said she doesnt work and during the call she 
started to list her tax credits. This would not necessarily be a barrier to lending and 
Miss J has said she had income totalling £2,000 per month. The operator also asked 
Miss J if she expected any changes to her income in the following six months to 
which Miss J said no. He goes on to ask if she needed a different statement format or 
any support in managing her account. Again, Miss J said no. 
Following successful application over the next 18 months Miss J ran her account 
close to and sometimes over the limit. But Vanquis said that on several occasions the 
payments have been received a day after their payment due date, that is, the day 
after the late payment charge had been applied. It said this would suggest poor 
account management or an oversight and not unaffordability or financial difficulty. It 
went on to say Miss Js payments were enough to cover the minimum payment due 
and allowed her to continue spending on the account; therefore, these payments 
were on occasion more than the minimum payment required.
Given the small amount of credit Vanquis offered Miss J in relation to her declared 
income, I think it was reasonable for it to have accepted Miss Js application. 
At the end of the welcome call the operator told Miss J that if there were any changes 
to her financial circumstances Miss J should let it know. Ive looked at Miss Js 
statements. During 2020 payments began to be consecutively missed. I can see from 
the contact records Vanquis made numerous attempts to contact Miss J, but all 
attempts went unanswered. I do understand that in times of financial stress it can be 
very difficult to answer such calls. Businesses have a responsibility to respond 
sympathetically and positively to consumers who are in financial difficulties. But Miss 
J also had a responsibility to let Vanquis know she was having trouble making the 
required payments and Im persuaded in this case that Vanquis wasnt given the 
opportunity to help Miss J. 
Subject to any further information the parties might provide I was minded not to uphold this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Vanquis nor Miss J provided any new comments or evidence. I see no reason to 
depart from my original conclusions so my provisional decision still stands. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman