DRN-4119194
The complaint
Mr E complains about Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limiteds decision to accept liability
following a claim under his motor insurance policy
What happened
In early September 2021 Mr E said he received police notification about an accident that 
happened on 21 August 2021, and later was asked to identify the driver, his wife. He said his 
wife wasnt aware of any accident. In October 2021 Mr E said the police again contacted him 
giving three options, an education course £100, a fixed penalty £100 or to go to court.  Mr E 
said his wife was having ongoing hospital treatment and with the pandemic he decided not to 
put her health at risk and agreed to the fixed penalty notice. Mr E said he was informed by 
the police that the matter was now ended. 
But several months later he said he was contacted by his insurer about an accident which 
said his car had hit another vehicle in a car park. And that this had happened at midnight on 
22 August 2021. He said that this couldnt be challenged as hed accepted liability. Mr E said  
hed to pay more for his insurance and the payment had to be made within seven days or his 
policy would be cancelled. Mr E complained to Trinity as he said hed begrudgingly accepted 
a fixed penalty for an accident on 21 August 2021. But he wouldnt accept any liability for a 
second accident, as his wife wouldnt have been in a car park at midnight.
Trinity said the third-party insurer (TPI) had shown Mr E had accepted liability for the 
accident. They said despite his assurance that his wife wasnt responsible for the accident 
and that hed only accepted the option given by the police because of her ill health, the 
likelihood of a successful challenge in court was significantly diminished. So, in line with 
their terms and conditions theyd agreed to settle the claim.
Mr E wasnt happy with Trinitys response as they still referred to the accident as being on 22 
August 2021. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr E had accepted liability for the accident so he didnt think Trinity had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim.
Mr E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Mr E but having done so Im not upholding 
this complaint Ill explain why.
Its not my role to decide who is at fault for an accident. This is something that is better
handled by the courts. My role here is to consider whether Trinity handled the claim made 
against Mr Es motor insurance policy in a fair and reasonable manner.
Firstly, Ive considered the evidence to determine whether there has been one accident or 
two.
I can see that the TPIs claim was for an incident on 21 August 2021 in a car park between a 
car with a registration number ending *KJ, and Mr Es car. The third party said their car was 
hit whilst unattended in a car park and the other car had left the scene. On reporting the 
matter to the police Mr Es car was identified. I can see the police attributed the blame to the 
driver of Mr Es car and that they told the TPI they would be offering a driving course as an 
option to Mr E.
Throughout the claim file I can only see reference made to the same registration numbers for 
the cars and the same place where the incident took place, the named car park. I think the 
change in date and time of the incident are administrative issues and not any reference to 
another accident. I can also see the same named car park on the Intention to Prosecute 
form issued to Mr E by the same police force. So, on balance Im satisfied the accident is the 
same as the one Mr E accepted liability for.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term which allows the insurer to handle the claim 
how it sees fit. This is sometimes referred to as "subrogation". This term essentially gives the 
insurer a contractual right to settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt need the agreement 
or consent of the policyholder. So, this means Trinity can decide whether to defend a claim 
or settle it - or they can decide whether theyre prepared to defend Mr E if the matter went to 
court. Court proceedings can be expensive, and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so 
insurers will consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success in making these 
decisions. So, Trinity can make a decision Mr E disagrees with, as has happened here.
I can understand Mr Es frustration with being held liable for a collision he says he doesnt 
agree happened or was involved with but while I cant make a decision as to who was liable 
for the collision, Ive looked to see if Trinity has acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters 
and Ive checked theyve made a reasonable assessment of the claim.
There are several things either party, or their insurers can use as evidence when settling a 
claim and deciding who is or isnt at fault, one of which can be a police report. And Mr E 
doesnt dispute he agreed to a fixed penalty for the incident from the police thereby 
accepting liability for the accident. So, I cant say that Trinity acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in settling the claim based on this evidence as there was little likelihood of success in their 
defending Mr E case.
I can see that the claim hadnt been added to Mr Es policy at time of renewal, and once it 
was the policy cost was recalculated. But this has been reduced and agreed after further 
discussion with Mr E so I wont comment further on this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman