DRN-3092804
The complaint
Mr H complained that Loans2Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner and he felt 
the interest rate on the loan was extortionate.
What happened
Mr H was given a single loan by Loans2Go as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayment 
amountDate 
repaid
13/05/2020 £400 18 months £91.42 £1,645.56 Not yet repaid
Mr H said that Loans2Go didnt carry out proper checks before it gave him the loan. 
Mr H thought that Loans2Go should have realised that he already had money 
problems and that the loan wasnt affordable. Mr H also complained about the overall 
cost of the loan  he told us he didnt recall signing any loan paperwork and the cost of 
the loan has made it difficult for him to settle the balance. He felt trapped by debt and 
said this was having a serious impact on his health and well-being. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld the irresponsible lending part of Mr Hs complaint as she thought 
that the information Loans2Go had gathered suggested that Mr H was already having 
money problems  and so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
Mr H was happy with our adjudicators assessment. 
Loans2Go didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that the loan 
was affordable for Mr H and although there was some adverse information on Mr Hs 
credit file, this would normally be expected given the type of lending it provided.
The complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules and regulations at the time Loans2Go gave this loan to Mr H required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what 
he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans2Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans2Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, 
and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of 
credit being applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all 
of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans2Go did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr H and whether it made a fair lending decision.
Loans2Go gathered some information from Mr H and did some checks of its own 
before it agreed the loan. It asked Mr H for details of his income and expenditure and it 
checked his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors.
Loans2Go used an online income verification tool to check Mr Hs pay and it was 
satisfied that it could safely rely on Mr H receiving a minimum monthly income of 
around £1,487. It boosted the amount of expenditure Mr H had declared and calculated 
that he would need to spend around £1,215 each month on his regular outgoings and 
servicing his existing debt. It also added a 10% buffer to allow for fluctuations in his 
income or expenditure. On this basis, Loans2Go was satisfied that the contractual loan 
monthly repayments should still have been affordable for Mr H. 
Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by Loans2Go at the time, including Mr Hs 
credit report. 
The credit check Loans2Go obtained suggested that Mr H had struggled to make his 
repayments in the past. He had an outstanding £325 County Court judgement debt from two 
years earlier and there were two defaulted accounts dating back to 2016. There was another 
defaulted account (also from some years earlier) which had an active balance of £59 still 
showing.As Loans2Go has said, it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a 
credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and I think its fair to 
say that these wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a 
loan application. 
But I dont think it was fair for Loans2Go to have considered that Mr Hs credit report 
generally showed his money problems were behind him and that he had a more positive up 
to date payment history. I think Loans2Go shouldve considered more carefully what the 
information it had gathered about Mr Hs use of credit showed. 
There were clear indications that Mr H appeared to have ongoing money problems and that 
his use of credit had escalated and reached the point where Mr H was now finding his debt 
unmanageable. 
I say this because, whilst it looks like Mr H was making at least the minimum monthly 
repayments owed on his three credit card accounts, he had opened one of those accounts 
only eight months or so earlier and he had taken out another card less than three months 
before applying for this loan. Overall, he had used around 80% of the available credit on his 
credit cards. It seems clear he was becoming increasingly reliant on credit card borrowing  
which is an expensive way to run up credit. 
And I think of particular concern is the information Loans2Go saw that showed Mr H had 
been in a payment arrangement for the last three months on an account that appears to be a 
£400 payday loan taken out just 5 months earlier  with an outstanding balance of £362 at 
the time he was applying for this loan.   
I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr H planned to use the loan Loans2Go 
provided for debt consolidation  in other words to pay other debt. So I think Loans2Go 
ought to have been aware that its loan was likely to add to Mr Hs overall indebtedness. 
Given the evidence it saw that Mr H had found it hard to make the contractual monthly 
repayments on an existing loan only recently taken out, I dont think Loans 2 Go should 
have concluded that he would be able to manage the monthly repayments on this loan in 
a way that would be sustainably affordable for him.  
I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that the results of its affordability checks couldnt be 
depended on and that it shouldnt have concluded that it was fair to provide this loan to 
Mr H.
So Im planning on upholding Mr Hs unfair lending complaint.
I havent seen enough to say that Loans2Go acted towards Mr H in any other way that was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said about the high cost of the loan. I think there was a 
very large amount of interest payable on the loan and I can appreciate that Mr H might now 
feel this was unfair. 
But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr H applied 
for this loan and he had to actively engage in the loan application process. The annual 
percentage rate of charge (APR) on Mr Hs loan was 1,013.1 %. The total that Mr H would 
pay if the loan ran to term was shown as £1,645.56. The agreement showed he would need 
to make 17 payments of £91.42 and a final payment of £91.42. So I think its fair to say that 
the loan agreement set out reasonably clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he was signing up to pay. Taking everything into account, I think Mr H was aware he was 
taking a high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree at the time. 
So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to award any additional 
redress, over and above what Ive said Loans2Go should do to put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H and Loans2Go have told me that they both agree with what I've said in my provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and to Loans2Go for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. Given that both 
parties agree with me and Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes 
my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr H shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If necessary, Loans2Go should buy back any outstanding debt it has sold if able to do so 
and then take the following steps. Otherwise, Loans2Go should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans2Go should attempt to arrange 
an affordable payment plan with Mr H, bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans2Go 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Loans2Go to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman