DRN-3897972
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has sent his account statements in the post when 
hes asked them not to.
What happened
Mr J holds a credit card account with HSBC. He had previously asked for paperless 
statements, but statements started to arrive through the post. Mr J is concerned that that his 
personal information may be at risk as his post box has been compromised, and neighbours 
have found some statements lying in the road. 
HSBC has said that it has an obligation to ensure the statements are being received. It said 
statements were now being sent through the post to Mr J as he hadnt accessed his on-line 
banking for some time. It said that if Mr J re-activates his account on-line, the statements 
wouldnt be sent in the post. Mr J says he doesnt own a computer so he cant access on-line 
banking and that he views his account transactions using the mobile app.
HSBC has paid Mr J £250 compensation for the inconvenience hes experienced. But it 
maintained Mr J needed to activate his on-line banking account. It explained that Mr J could 
do this using his mobile phone and that a computer wasnt required. And it said he could visit 
a branch if he needed help activating his account on-line this way. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr J referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into it but he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong and that the compensation it had paid was fair.
Mr J didnt accept this outcome. He said he was told hed need to log-in to his on-line 
banking on a monthly basis to prevent statements being sent via the post and this wasnt 
possible as the screen on his mobile phone is too small. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I know Mr J 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Its not for this service to tell a business how to operate  we arent the regulator. Our role -
as an impartial dispute resolution organisation, is to decide whether the business 
complained about has followed its processes correctly and has treated its customer fairly.
 
Lenders are required to send regular statements of account to their account holders. HSBC 
do this via the post or its on-line banking platform. I appreciate that Mr Js preferred method 
to monitor his account is through the mobile banking app. But Ive reviewed HSBCs 
procedures for dealing with requests for paperless statements. And Im satisfied these say 
that if a customer wants paperless statements, they need to access their account via the   
on-line banking platform on a regular basis.
Prior to raising this complaint, its not in dispute that Mr J hadnt accessed his account via 
on-line banking for some time. So, Im satisfied this is the reason his statements started 
being sent through the post again. And given HSBCs process requires account holders 
requiring paperless statements to regularly visit the on-line banking platform - and as Mr J 
didnt do so, I dont find it unreasonable that HSBC switched to statements via the post. 
HSBC has paid Mr J compensation totalling £250 for the inconvenience he has experienced. 
And it has explained that Mr J is able to access on-line banking via his mobile and so a 
computer or tablet isnt required. HSBC has also said Mr J can visit a branch if he needs 
help doing that. Overall, I think thats fair. 
Im sorry to learn of the difficulties Mr Js been experiencing with his post. And I understand 
his genuine concerns about his personal information being compromised. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest this has happened. 
I can see there has been some confusion about how often Mr J is required to access his   
on-line banking and I accept he may have been told differing timescales. This service has 
since been told that Mr J needs to access his on-line banking at least once every 90 days to 
ensure his statements are sent on-line. And I dont think this is unreasonable as it seems   
Mr J can access his account on-line via his mobile.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that HSBC has done anything wrong here to the extent that it 
needs to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman