DRN-2307329
The complaint
Mr L complains that Profile Financial Solutions Limited trading as Profile Pensions (Profile) 
failed to provide him with suitable advice regarding the transfer of his pension savings.
What happened
Mr L has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for simplicity, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as being with, and 
from Mr L himself.
Mr L held pension savings in a with profits fund. He sought advice from Profile in 
March 2014 regarding the future investment of those pension savings. In brief, Profile at the 
time recorded Mr Ls objectives in seeking the advice were;
To reduce his existing fees and charges
To gain greater flexibility
To get access to fund choices that better met his current circumstances and were 
aligned to his attitude to risk
To consolidate any existing arrangements into a new plan
To gain access to ongoing pension and investment advice
The advice provided by Profile recommended that Mr L transfer his pension savings into a 
new personal pension provided by a firm I will call A. The advice he was given compared the 
likely value of Mr Ls pension savings across a range of different pension plans provided by 
alternative firms, and took account of both the cost Mr L would need to pay to Profile for its 
initial and ongoing advice, and the costs that he would need to pay to the pension provider. 
The analysis also considered whether Mr L should leave his pension savings with his current 
provider, or whether taking a stakeholder pension might be advantageous to him.
Mr L accepted Profiles advice and his pension savings were transferred to A at the end of 
April 2014. Since then Profile has typically met with Mr L on an annual basis to review his 
pension savings. Mr L has taken two withdrawals from his pension savings, in May 2019 and 
May 2020.
In February 2020 Mr L complained to Profile above the advice hed been given in 2014 and 
the subsequent investment of his pension savings. In particular he complained that Profile 
had failed to consider lower cost pension options such as a stakeholder plan, that the 
investment approach had resulted in him paying higher costs than necessary, and that he 
had lost out on substantial returns due to the choice of funds in which he was invested. 
Profile didnt agree with Mr Ls complaint so he brought it to this Service.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
advice Profile had given to Mr L had been inappropriate. And he thought that the subsequent 
investment of Mr Ls pension savings had been in line with his attitude to risk. So he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr L, didnt agree with that assessment. In particular it said that it 
didnt consider the investigator had addressed the main focus of the complaint  that there 
were more appropriate options for the investment of Mr Ls pension savings such as a 
stakeholder pension and that these were not given proper consideration by Profile when it 
made its recommendation. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr L and by Profile. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The complaint that the CMC has made on behalf of Mr L has changed somewhat over time. 
Initially the complaint appears to have been most concerned about the investment 
performance of Mr Ls pension savings, and the letter of complaint highlighted that the value 
of Mr Ls pension savings was less in 2019 than when the transfer took place in 2014. But, 
perhaps inadvertently, that didnt take account of the withdrawal amounting to more than 
£5,000 that Mr L had made in 2019.
In response to our investigators assessment, the CMC restated the complaint as I set out 
earlier - that there were more appropriate options for the investment of Mr Ls pension 
savings such as stakeholder pensions and that these were not given proper consideration by 
Profile when it made its recommendation.
For completeness I will deal with both issues in this decision.
When Profile first met with Mr L it conducted an assessment to determine his attitude to risk. 
It is clear from that assessment that Mr L had a very low appetite for risk on his pension 
savings. And so, whilst he would be expecting some growth, it is reasonable to expect that 
growth to be at the lower end of what might be normally seen. And that growth would be 
facilitated by the investments that were recommended by Profile for Mr Ls pension savings.
Taking account of the withdrawals that Mr L has made, Profile has calculated that his 
pension savings have grown by 27% over the period since the advice was given. That is a 
reasonable level of growth for someone with Mr Ls attitude to risk given the market 
conditions in that period. The investments that Profile recommended appear to me to be 
appropriate for someone in Mr Ls circumstances.
I can see that Profile considered a wide range of pension providers when it made its 
recommendation to Mr L. Included in that assessment was what Profile described as a 
generic stakeholder pension. That use of a generic comparison might give rise to some 
concerns since, as Mr L has reasonably pointed out, different stakeholder pensions levy 
different levels of charges. But the pension provider that Profile recommended offered 
charges that were significantly lower than those that were required of a stakeholder scheme. 
I dont think that Profiles analysis reasonably needed to go further to conclude that sort of 
scheme would be less advantageous to Mr L that the provider it recommended.
On transferring his pension savings Mr L benefitted from far lower charges compared to his 
existing scheme. And included in those charges was ongoing advice from Profile  something that he didnt receive on his original pension scheme. I have noted that Mr L 
needed to pay a fee to Profile for the advice it gave him, and the work it did to transfer his 
pension savings. But at that time Mr L had a number of years until he was expecting to retire 
so would expect his pension savings to recover that cost relatively quickly. And the analysis 
Profile performed showed that even after accounting for the advice charges Mr Ls pension 
savings were likely to be much higher at retirement than if they had been left in situ.
On balance I think that the initial advice, and ongoing investment recommendations, 
provided to Mr L by Profile were appropriate. I dont therefore think the complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Profile Financial Solutions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman