DRN-3646484
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc unfairly terminated his loan account.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr D took out a 5-year fixed sum loan agreement.
In 2019, Mr D found the loan repayments challenging. This is because he worked shifts and 
faced a number personal difficulties including care for his children and unwell mother.  
At the end of 2019, Mr D missed a payment and went into arrears and Sainsburys agreed to 
give Mr D a breathing space of one month.
Mr D continued to find payments challenging and made new payment arrangements in 
November 2020, January and February 2021. However, he was unable to meet these.
Mr D was unable to make the required payments in August and September 2021 and 
Sainsburys issued a Notice of Sum in Arrears. As no payment was made this was followed 
by a pre default notice advising that a default notice would be issued if no contact was made 
within 10 days.
As Mr D didnt make contact, Sainsburys issued a default notice in November 2021. 
However, Mr D didnt pay the full amount and Sainsburys registered the default. Mr D made 
an additional payment to cover the arrears, however as this was after the deadline it was too 
late to stop the default.
Mr D complained to Sainsburys who didnt consider they had made any mistakes. Mr D then 
complained to our service that he had been defaulted when not in arrears. Also, he was 
short by just over £30 in his payment having paid off a significant proportion of a large loan. 
In addition, he said Sainsburys hadnt followed the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Covid-19 payment holiday guidance and hadnt done anything to help him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and, as he remains dissatisfied, this case 
has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not asking Sainsburys to take any further 
action.
As there is evidence that Mr D had characteristics of vulnerability according to the FCAs 
guidance on this topic, I first considered Sainsburys responses to Mr Ds requests for 
support. 
Mr D contacted Sainsburys in January 2020 to say he was having difficulty making a 
payment and requested a change in the payment date. There is evidence that Sainsburys 
responded quickly by placing a 30 day hold on Mr Ds account. 
Although Sainsburys were aware of the FCAs Covid-19 guidance, Mr Ds financial difficulty 
pre-dated this. Also, the FCA made it clear payment holidays were not suitable for everyone 
and should only be applied to customers who were unable to maintain their payments. In 
addition, there are file notes for 2020 which show that Mr D communicated that his 
difficulties were personal, and he didnt wish to answer affordability questions or need extra 
support.
Furthermore, when Mr D communicated payment difficulties towards the end of 2020 and 
early 2021, I can see that Sainsburys provided support in the form of three flexible payment 
arrangements. Also, they didnt challenge Mr D when he stopped his direct debit, which was 
the payment method stated in the agreement, and this meant Mr D made irregular payments 
on dates that suited him. Furthermore, Sainsburys didnt charge fees for some late 
payments.
So, Im satisfied that Sainsburys did provide support to Mr D and I found this to be fair and 
reasonable.
I then considered Sainsburys decision to close the account and record a default in relation 
to it. Its clear that having agreed the above-mentioned payment arrangements, Mr D was 
unable to make the payments. This resulted in Sainsburys issuing letters about broken 
arrangements and arrears. As Mr D also missed payments in August and September 2021 
and was still in arrears in October 2021, Sainsburys issued a pre default notice which gave 
Mr D 10 days to avoid a default. However, Sainsburys didnt receive any contact, so they 
issued the default notice. 
Unfortunately, this payment deadline wasnt met, because the amount Mr D paid was 
insufficient. I can understand Mr Ds frustration here. He had paid a significant proportion of 
the loan; the payment was only short by a small amount and he subsequently paid this. 
However, I found that Sainsburys had been clear about the arrears, payment amount and 
date, and correctly followed their process with regards to collections and the default. Also, 
the loan agreement which Mr D agreed to said: 
Missing payments could have severe consequences on your credit rating, which might make 
it harder to get credit in the future. If you miss a number of payments, or do not make your 
monthly payments in full, we may end this loan agreement and you will have to repay the 
total amount you owe us early.
We will use your payments to repay the amount you owe us under this agreement in this 
order; first, towards any amount in arrears you owe because you did not make monthly 
payments in full when they were due; then, towards any monthly payments which are 
currently due; next, towards any additional arrears interest and late payment fees and lastly, 
towards reducing the remaining loan amount you owe us.
So, I cant say that Sainsburys default action was unfair or unreasonable. Ultimately it was 
clear that Mr Ds financial difficulties were long term and that he didnt make the necessary 
payments to bring his account up to date within the timeframes that Sainsburys set. So, Im 
satisfied that Sainsburys were entitled to record a default in relation to this loan and that it 
did so fairly. And, as previously mentioned, Im satisfied that Sainsburys approach to Mr Ds 
payment difficulties and arrears over three consecutive years had been both supportive and 
flexible. 
In summary, I havent seen anything which suggests Sainsburys have acted unreasonably or unfairly here and I dont think they need to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman