DRN-2511808
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the actions of Grove & Dean Ltd (G&D) when it sold him motor 
insurance. Mr A says that G&D did not make it clear to him what outstanding sum he would 
need to pay if he cancelled the policy early, and consequently that it mis-sold this policy to 
him.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr A renewed his policy on 13 March 2019 through G&D having originally taken out cover in 
March 2018. On 17 April, he rang G&D to ask for the vehicle covered under the policy to be 
changed. He was informed that this would result in an additional premium becoming due. 
Whilst Mr A wasnt happy with this, he agreed to make a further payment so that his 
replacement car was covered.
G&D attempted to collect a deposit payment from Mr As card relating to the increased 
premium that was due for the change of vehicle. However the payment request under the 
card failed. On the same day, Mr A rang G&D and said that he wanted to cancel the policy 
after all. I understand that this was because Mr A had managed to find cheaper cover 
elsewhere.
G&D informed Mr A that there was an outstanding balance to pay upon cancellation. After 
some discussion, it was agreed that G&D would waive its £75 cancellation fee. But Mr A was 
told that he still needed to pay an outstanding balance of £660.45. Mr A complained to G&D, 
stating that the balance he was being asked to pay did not fairly reflect the time he had been 
covered under the policy, and stating that he had not been told about these cancellation 
terms when he took out the policy.
In its response to his complaint, G&D said that when he was sold the policy in 2018, he had 
been provided with a link to the insurers policy booklet via an e-mail, and that this confirmed 
the insurers short period rate cancellation scale. Short period rate cancellation terms are 
used by some insurers to reflect what they see as the spread of risk across the policy term. 
Based on the cancellation scale shown in the policy terms, G&D said that Mr A was entitled 
to a 60% refund of the annual premium, taking into account the additional premium that 
related to the change of vehicle. G&D agreed that it was also willing to waive its £50 
administration fee. This reduced the balance due from Mr A to £610.45.
Mr As opinion remained that when he took out the policy, the cancellation terms had not 
been made clear to him. He therefore brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators assessment. He said that when he bought the policy 
on-line, there was no link available for him to read the policy terms. He was therefore not 
aware of the cancellation terms, and his view is that the policy was mis-sold to him. Mr A has 
commented that the amount he has been charged for the period of time that he was covered 
by the policy is unfair. He has also said the quotation he received for the change of vehicle 
was unreasonably high, leading him to cancel the policy.
I should clarify that Mr A also brought a complaint to this service about G&Ds actions when 
it deducted directly from his debit card the cancellation sum it said was due under his policy. 
This complaint was dealt with under a separate reference number, and so I will not be 
considering that issue under this complaint.
I should also explain that in selling the policy to Mr A, G&D was acting as an insurance 
intermediary or broker. G&D is not the insurer under the policy, and therefore does not set 
the sum a policyholder has to pay to reflect the time they were covered by the policy if they 
cancel it early.
In my provisional decision under this complaint, I can only consider the activities that G&D 
was responsible for. These activities relate to what G&D told Mr A about the policy when it 
sold it to him.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr As complaint against G&D is that when it sold him the policy, it did not bring 
to his attention the terms relating to how much of the premium he would be paid if he 
cancelled the policy early.
As already explained, these cancellation terms were based on short period rates. Such rates 
weight the premium towards the early months of the policy year. This means that if 
cancellation occurs, the policyholder pays a greater percentage of the annual premium than 
would be the case if this were to be worked out as a simple proportion of the time on cover 
compared to the whole policy year. Short period rates were applied when Mr A cancelled his 
policy. That is why he was charged 40% of the annual premium, having been insured under 
the policy for just over one month.
Mr A originally took out the policy on-line in 2018 via G&D, renewing it in 2019. G&D states 
that the policy terms were available on-line prior to purchase, and that these terms were also 
provided via an e-mail link (although Mr A says that he did not receive this link). The short 
period rates were detailed within the terms.
In my view, the existence of short period rates represented significant terms that should 
have been highlighted when Mr A was sold the policy. I can see that when G&D issued the 
information to Mr A about his policy, the Statement of Disclosure included a section entitled 
Other cancellation terms (all customers). This stated:
Please be aware that some insurers do not allow any refund or may charge short period 
cancellation rates (please refer to your policy wording for more information.
This information was included towards the end of a 13 page document sent to Mr A, and was 
not given any prominence. The scale of the short period rates was contained on page 26 of 
the policy terms. Overall, looking at the documentation given to Mr A when he took out and 
then renewed the policy, in my view G&D did not sufficiently bring to Mr As attention the 
existence of the short period cancellation rates.I must then consider what difference the failure to highlight the short period rates may have 
had on Mr As decision to buy the policy. G&D has provided evidence to show that when Mr 
A renewed cover in March 2019, it was only able to obtain a quotation from one insurer. This 
was the insurer who Mr A renewed with, and which applied short period cancellation rates.
It would appear that the choices of motor insurance policies available to Mr A at this time 
were limited. This is likely to have been a reflection of the way in which insurers assess risk 
when deciding whether to offer cover, and I note that Mr A had experienced three fault 
claims within a six month period. If the short period rates had been brought to his attention, 
Mr A may have decided to seek cover elsewhere. But in my view, its not clear he would 
have been able to obtain alternative cover for a similar premium that did not include short 
period cancellation terms.
In addition, I have to consider whether knowledge about these short period rates would have 
been one of the key factors in Mr As decision about whether to take out the cover, 
especially when his choice of insurers seems to have been limited. The submissions made 
by Mr A do not indicate to me that in March 2019 when he renewed the cover, he considered 
it was likely he would want to cancel the policy early.
Overall, my view is that it is more likely than not that had the short period rates been brought 
to Mr As attention, he would still have chosen to take out the policy through G&D. I 
appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr A. However, my current 
conclusion is that G&Ds failure to highlight the cancellation terms to Mr A did not result in 
the policy being mis-sold to him.
Responses to my provisional decision
G&D confirmed that it had nothing further to add regarding this complaint.
Mr A rejected the findings in my provisional decision. I have listened to a recording of the call 
Mr A had with one of our investigators in which he provided some comments regarding my 
provisional decision, and I have also read his e-mail with his further comments.
Mr A has stated that in March 2018, he was provided with many quotations that were near 
the premium he was quoted by G&D.  He says that in 2019, when he sought to change the 
vehicle that he wanted to cover, he was able to obtain cheaper insurance than that offered 
through G&D.
Prior to the policy being cancelled, Mr A has said that he was not aware that the insurer 
would charge such a high proportion of the annual premium in the event of cancellation. His 
understanding was that he would only have to pay £75 plus one months premium. Mr A 
says that he entered into the contract in good faith on that basis. But he says that the short 
period rates were hidden from him, and not included in the policy documentation he was 
sent.
Mr A has highlighted that he did not make a claim under the policy before it was cancelled. 
He has suggested that the short period rates should only be applied to policyholders who 
have made a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I explained in my provisional decision, under this complaint about G&D, I can only 
consider the activities that G&D was responsible for. Those activities relate to what G&D told 
Mr A when it sold him the policy. The policy terms which relate to the application of short 
period rates upon cancellation are set by the insurer, and are the responsibility of the 
insurer.
Consequently, although I acknowledge Mr As comments that it was unfair for him to be 
charged short period rates when he did not make an insurance claim under the policy, it was 
not ultimately G&Ds decision to apply those rates. I am therefore not able to consider this 
issue under this complaint.
In terms of what Mr A was told about the short period rates when G&D sold him the policy, 
as I outlined in my provisional decision, I dont consider that their existence was sufficiently 
brought to his attention. Mr A has made it clear in his submissions that he was not aware of 
the short period rates.
But I still need to consider whether this failing on the part of G&D led to Mr A taking out the 
policy, when he would not have done if the short period rates had been brought to his 
attention. Mr A says he was able to obtain cheaper cover than that offered by G&D when he 
changed his vehicle. He also says that in 2018, he received other quotations that were near 
to that offered to him by G&D.
I have thought carefully about the further comments provided by Mr A in this regard. 
However, I remain of the opinion that the choices of motor insurance available to him at this 
time were most likely limited. I also dont think Ive been provided with sufficient evidence to 
conclude that Mr A would have been able to obtain insurance for a similar premium that 
didnt include short period cancellation terms. And the weight of evidence does not suggest 
to me that when he renewed cover in 2019, Mr A considered it was likely he would cancel 
the policy early.
My conclusion therefore remains that had the short period rates been brought to Mr As 
attention, it is more likely than not that he would still have chosen to take out the policy 
through G&D. As a consequence, I do not consider that the failure of G&D to bring to Mr As 
attention these cancellation terms led to the policy being mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Grove & Dean Ltd, and I make 
no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman