DRN-2030014
The complaint
Miss F complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked a payment into her account and 
delayed returning it to her.
What happened
On 8 July 2019, Miss F received a payment of £2,310.32 into her account. She tried to 
transfer the money to another account on the same day, but Metro blocked the payment and 
froze her account.
On 10 July 2019, Miss F called Metro to ask what had happened to the payment. At that 
point, Metro told Miss F it had blocked the payment and required proof of payment from 
her. It said it needed to know who the payment was from and what the payment was for.
Miss F sent the details to Metro by email but her account remained blocked. Miss F made 
numerous phone calls to Metro to chase a resolution. She also visited her local branch and 
sent emails to Metro.
Once Metro had completed its investigation, it returned the funds to the sending account. On 
1 August 2019, Metro issued its final response to Miss Fs complaint. It apologised for any 
inconvenience caused, but said it had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the account.
Miss F remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to our service. When Metro 
contacted our service, it said it would like to offer Miss F £200 for errors in its customer 
service. Miss F declined the offer, so our investigator issued her opinion. She said Metro had 
acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and that it had complied with the terms 
and conditions of the account. She said Metro had recognised its service levels had not met 
the expected standards and that she felt £200 was fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Miss F experienced as a result.
Miss F didnt agree. She said she was first told the information she sent would be fine (which 
transpired not to be the case), that she was given conflicting and misleading information, that 
Metro took too long to resolve the issue, and that Metros poor communication meant she 
was unable to make alternative financial arrangements. So, she asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I recognise how frustrating Miss F found this whole experience. She was only told 
limited information by Metro and it didnt commit to firm timescales as to when it would 
complete its investigation. Miss F made it clear she needed the money and chased Metro on 
numerous occasions to expedite the process.
With that being said, Im sorry to say that I cant say Metro treated Miss F unfairly by 
blocking her account. All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict customers accounts while they carry out a review. 
And, having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied Metro acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked Miss Fs account. And that it was entitled to do so 
under the account terms and conditions that govern the relationship between Metro and Miss 
F. So, I cant say Metro was wrong to block Miss Fs account and carry out an investigation.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if Metro acted promptly or caused any unnecessary 
delays. And to see if there were other service failings that might warrant an increase in 
compensation.
Miss F says Metro didnt tell her about the block and she only found out when she contacted 
Metro herself. And that she was given misleading information when she contacted Metro. 
Ive listened to the calls between Metro and Miss F during the period in questions. And I can 
see Miss F was frustrated at the process and the time it took Metro to complete its 
investigation. 
However, the account statement shows Metro returned the money on 18 July 2019, 10 days 
after it blocked Miss Fs account. And I note it was an international payment and that Metro 
requested information from the international sending bank. Investigations like this do take 
time, and Metro did tell Miss F it was waiting to hear back from the international bank. So, 
while I understand Miss F was unhappy to be without her money, I havent seen anything to 
suggest Metro took an unreasonably long time to complete its investigation, or caused any 
unnecessary delays.
Metro has accepted there were shortcomings in the service it provided Miss F when she 
contacted it to chase the payment. Because its offered Miss F £200, Ive thought about 
whether it should have to do any more to put things right.
I agree that Metros information wasnt always consistent and that it didnt always give a full 
explanation of the reasons for its requests. But I did hear conversations when Metro told 
Miss F that it couldnt commit to a timescale and where it explained it couldnt disclose 
further information. Metro isnt obliged to divulge more information than it did and although 
Metro wasnt always completely consistent, it did try to manage Miss Fs expectations on 
some occasions. 
So, while I agree there were some service failings, Im satisfied that Metro has done enough 
to put things right for Miss F by offering to pay her £200. For that reason, I wont be asking 
Metro to do more to put things right for Miss F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman