DRN-4360028
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the actions of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax after he fell 
victim of an authorised pushed payment (APP) scam.
Mr P has a representative on this complaint.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand that Mr Ps representative has said they would like his complaint 
to be considered in light of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). But Halifax 
are under no obligation to refund the money to Mr P under the CRM Code, as the 
Code only applies to payments made to another person (which wouldnt have been 
the case here given the payments were made to Mr Ps own cryptocurrency wallet he 
had with an e-money institution (EMI) before being moved on to the scammer).
Its not in dispute that Mr P authorised the disputed payments in question. On 
12 May 2022 he sent £3 and £2,510 to his crypto wallet from his Halifax savings 
account (where the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer). While 
I accept that Mr P didnt intend for his money to go to the fraudsters, under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance as the payments were authorised by him. This is unless there is 
sufficient evidence that Halifax should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
protect Mr P.
Halifax does have a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and one of the 
reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Halifax needs to have systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its 
consumers are at risk of fraud. With that in mind, Ive considered whether Halifax 
should have considered these payments as being sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have given it sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifaxs 
systems to have been triggered by the payment in dispute. I say this because the first 
payment which was made to Mr Ps crypto wallet was for £3, which is obviously a 
nominal amount. The second amount Mr P transferred was for £2,510, and while 
I dont think this was a particularly remarkably amount to cause Halifax to be 
concerned, I do accept Mr Ps argument that this was a higher amount than 
previously transferred from his account. So, I have gone on to consider the other 
circumstances surrounding the funds transferred. 
Mr P transferred the funds from his savings account to his crypto wallet. As the 
transfer had come from Mr Ps savings account, Im satisfied this didnt look 
particularly suspicious and as such Halifaxs systems were unlikely to have triggered. 
I say this because the very nature of savings account is for customers to do just that, 
save, usually for something specific. Therefore, it is not unusual for larger one-off 
payments to be made. Secondly, when looking at the activity on Mr Ps savings 
account, usually money was transferred into the account and out the same day. So, 
while the amount he transferred was higher than usual (although in context of what I 
would generally expect a bank to identify as suspiciously large, the amount itself isnt 
remarkably high) it was still in line with the pattern of behavior on the account. Lastly, 
Mr P was also transferring the money to his crypto wallet, which he had already sent 
a nominal amount to that day. As a consequence, this wasnt a large payment to an 
unknown payee. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably conclude there was anything to indicate any suspicious 
circumstances around where the money was being transferred to. I appreciate the 
representatives argument that Mr P was a retail client and hadnt used crypto wallets 
before. But I have to bear in mind that if banks such as Halifax were to be expected 
to intervene with every payment of a similar size to the ones being disputed here - 
and to crypto wallets in a consumers own name - it could risk grinding the banking 
system to a halt.
For the reasons I have explained above, I am satisfied that neither amount was 
remarkably large or significantly uncharacteristic of Mr Ps pattern of behavior from 
his savings account. Consequently, I dont think Halifax could reasonably have 
known that these payments were subject of a scam. The payments were not 
significant enough to have triggered its systems; nor were there sufficient grounds to 
justify delaying the payments.
I have gone on to consider if Halifax took reasonable steps to try and recover the 
funds. M P transferred the funds on 12 May 2022 to his crypto wallet. However, on 
the same day he says he received an email from the trading platform advising that 
3050 USDT (a cryptocurrency named Tether) had been withdrawn from his account 
on the trading platform. This was the equivalent to the sum invested by Mr P in GBP. 
Mr P didnt question or report the issue at this point. 
On 18 May 2022, Mr P realised there was an issue when he discovered the 
investment had disappeared and there was no trace of the funds. Even if Mr P had 
made Halifax aware at this point, its important to note that he didnt ask Halifax to 
send the money directly to the scammers but instead to a crypto wallet in his name. 
And Halifax did as Mr P requested. I am persuaded that it was highly unlikely that 
Halifax would be able to facilitate the recovery of the payments after they were 
moved on from Mr Ps EMI account to the scammers. So, I dont think I can hold 
Halifax responsible for Mr P being unable to recover his funds.
All things considered, and despite my natural empathy for this cruel scam and the situation 
Mr P finds himself in having lost his money, Im not persuaded Halifax taking different 
actions would have prevented the payments being made, or the loss that ensued, for the 
reasons I have explained. It follows that I do not consider it fair or reasonable to require 
Halifax to do anything beyond what it has already done for this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman