DRN-1354455
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wrongly made a payment 
from his account.  And that, when he contacted them about this, they threatened to cancel 
his card.
What happened
Mr T had been a member of an organisation (which Ill call O) for a number of years.  He 
says O sent him a reminder when his renewal was coming up and would contact him again 
when it was due. They would then take payment.  
Mr T received a reminder in late 2018.  But he didnt want to renew, because he was due to 
take an extended break from work.  So he didnt do anything.
During his break, Mr T went abroad.  While he was away, a payment of £50.98 was made to 
O from his Nationwide account.  Mr T didnt think the payment should have been made, as 
he hadnt authorised it.  So he phoned Nationwide for a refund.  
Nationwide told him that the payment had been authorised.  They said that, if Mr T hadnt 
authorised the payment, they could start a fraud investigation.  But if they did that, the card 
on the account would be stopped.  Mr T didnt want that to happen because he was abroad, 
and he was worried he could get stuck with no access to his money.
Mr T complained to Nationwide about what had happened.  He also complained that 
Nationwide had lied to him; theyd told him theyd contacted O about the payment when they 
hadnt.  
Nationwide investigated the complaint and sent Mr T their final response.  They said that the 
payment to O was shown on the account as a recurring payment.  It had been used before, 
to make a payment in 2017.  Because they had authorisation to make the recurring payment, 
Nationwide decided they hadnt done anything wrong.  They also said Mr T had 
misunderstood the information theyd given him.  Theyd said:
I can confirm as the merchant has provided correct information to claim these funds we 
processed their request following VISA rules and procedures.
But this didnt mean that anyone at Nationwide had spoken to O.  They said they were sorry 
if Mr T thought that.
Mr T wasnt happy with the outcome of Nationwides investigation.  So he referred the matter 
to us.  Our investigator looked at the evidence and came to the view that the payment was 
authorised, so Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong.  He didnt think they should pay Mr T 
any compensation.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to make 
a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr T will be disappointed that, having done this, Im not upholding it.  Ill explain 
why.
Mr T made a payment to O in December 2017 from his Nationwide account.  He agrees he 
authorised this payment.  But he does dispute that he authorised a recurring payment.  He 
said that O shouldnt be able to take any more payments without contacting him.
Ive seen copies of Mr Ts bank statements.  And Nationwide have sent us a copy of their 
internal record.  Both show that the payment to O is a recurring payment.
I know Mr T firmly believes he didnt authorise a recurring payment.  So I asked our 
investigator to contact Mr T and O to see what evidence they could send us about the 
payment.  Mr T said that he couldnt find any of the renewal correspondence and thought he 
might have thrown it away.  And O didnt reply at all.
So the only evidence Ive got about what type of payment this is comes from Nationwide.  
And they say its a recurring payment.  Without any evidence to the contrary, I have to 
accept that.  And I cant criticise Nationwide for making the payment because that evidence 
shows they were authorised to make it.
Mr T says that he contacted O when Nationwide refused to refund the February 2019 
payment.  At first, O refunded part of the payment; they later refunded the balance.  I dont 
have any information about why O did this as it hasnt replied to the investigator.  So it would 
be unfair of me to decide that it was because Nationwide shouldnt have made the payment. 
Mr Ts also complained to us that, when he first called Nationwide, they threatened him with 
cancellation of his card.  I know that Mr T was worried about the payment and that he was 
abroad when he was trying to sort this out, which I can only imagine made it more difficult.   
When he called Nationwide, Mr T said he hadnt authorised the payment and asked them to 
investigate whether thered been a fraud.  As part of their reply, Nationwide said that, if they 
did that, his card would be cancelled.  Mr T says this was a threat, but I cant agree it was.  I 
appreciate that left him with a difficult decision (whether to get the card cancelled).  But I 
cant criticise Nationwide for trying to make him aware of what would happen if they did what 
he asked and investigated if thered been a fraud.
Because I dont think Nationwides done anything wrong, I cant ask them to do anything else 
to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
As explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman