DRN-4478864
The complaint
Ms S complains about West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (WBI) and the 
way they handled the claim she made on her motor insurance policy, which she feels led to 
additional damage to her car that should now be covered.
What happened
The circumstances of the claim are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to provide an 
extensive chronological timeline of the events that transpired. But to summarise, Ms S held a 
motor insurance policy, underwritten by WBI. Unfortunately, her car was vandalised causing 
significant damage. So, she contacted WBI to make a claim on this policy. WBI appointed 
another company, who Ill refer to as M to administer the policy on their behalf. As M were 
acting as an agent of WBI, I will refer to any actions taken by M as thought they were made 
by WBI throughout the decision.
Initially, Ms S car was deemed a total loss. But she disputed this, and the valuation offered 
to her. WBI considered Ms S dispute and arranged a new inspection, which took on board 
the new information and deemed it to be repairable. So, WBI attempted to find a garage to 
complete the agreed repairs required.
But due to the make and model of Ms S car, and its age, WBI were unable to find an 
approved repairer local to Ms S. And after Ms S refused their offer to settle by a cash in lieu 
(CIL) payment, they agreed to transport Ms S car a significant distance to her own 
repairer, who Ill refer to as F. 
F completed the original repair works. But Ms S car failed its MOT due to damage she felt 
was caused by exposure to the elements which it was being stored by WBI. So, she wanted 
WBI to refund her the amount shed paid putting this additional damage right. WBI arranged 
for an independent engineer to inspect Ms S car, and this report recommended WBI pay Ms 
S £470 for additional damages, which is what they did. But Ms S remained unhappy. And 
she raised several complaints through the journey of the claim explaining this.
Ms S was unhappy with the delay in arranging for the repair of her car. And she felt this 
delay led to the additional damage to her car, as it was exposed to the elements while in 
storage. So, she wanted to be compensated for the delays, and refunded the amount shed 
paid for the additional damage to ensure the car passed its MOT. She also complained 
about the hire costs shed incurred without a courtesy car, and the lack of communication 
from WBI.
WBI responded to Ms S complaints and upheld them in part. They accepted there had been 
delays in arranging Ms S car to be repaired. While they didnt think they were responsible 
for all of them, they paid Ms S £200 to recognise these, on top of their offer to transport Ms 
S' car to F and back, which they explained they wouldnt usually do. They also offered a 
further £100 for their poor communication. But they didnt think they needed to pay anything 
more for the additional damages Ms S was claiming for, based on the findings of the 
independent engineer, who Ill refer to as E. And they explained a courtesy car wasnt an 
option for Ms S, as a nominated approved garage wasnt Ms S remained unhappy and so, 
she referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the £300 WBI 
offered, and have since paid, was fair to recognise the delays and lack of communication 
during the claim process, on top of WBIs agreement to transport Ms S car to F at no charge 
to her. And they thought WBI were fair to rely on the report compiled by E, stating that only 
part of the additional damages were related to weather exposure. So, they didnt think WBI 
needed to do anything more.
Ms S didnt agree, providing several comments explaining why. These included, and are not 
limited to, her belief that WBI shouldve sent her car to F much earlier than they did, so she 
didnt think the £200 was fair compensation. Ms S also continued to assert her belief she 
should be reimbursed the hire charges she incurred and that Fs opinion regarding the 
damage to her air conditioning unit (ACU) made it reasonably clear the damage to this was 
caused by the weather. So, she disputed Es report, and wanted the costs of the repair work 
to the ACU refunded to her to resolve her complaint.
Our investigator considered Ms S comments, but their opinion remained the same. They 
also provided Ms S the opportunity to provide a full report from F supporting her position but 
to date, this hasnt been received. And the deadline to provide this report has passed, 
without further communication from Ms S. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision, based on the evidence and information available on file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms S. I recognise Ms S paid 
for the policy with WBI expecting it to assist her both practically and financially in situations 
such as the one she found herself in. And dont think its in dispute that the repairs to Ms S 
car took longer than would usually be expected, or that Ms S was unhappy with the condition 
of her car after it had been in the care of WBI. So, I can understand why Ms S feels unfairly 
treated and why shed feel the need to complain on more than one occasion.
But for me to say WBI should do something more than they have already, I need to be 
satisfied that what theyve already paid Ms S during the claim process, alongside the 
compensation theyve offered, doesnt adequately recognise the mistakes and errors WBI 
are responsible for. And, while I appreciate Ms S wont agree, I dont think thats the case 
here. And Ill explain why.
Ive first thought about the length of time it took WBI to arrange for repairs to Ms S car, and 
the way they communicated with Ms S during this process and the investigations afterwards. 
I dont think its disputed that there were avoidable delays and a lack of communication at 
times, as WBI have paid £300 to recognise this. So, as this isnt in dispute, I dont intend to 
discuss the merits of this issue in detail. Instead, Ive focused on the offer WBI paid to put 
things right and thought about whether I think the £300 is adequate. And I think it is.
I think it fairly recognises the fact that, while it did take a significant period of time to arrange 
for Ms S car to be repaired, not all of this time was caused by something WBI did wrong. I think its clear Ms S location and the age, make and model of her car made it difficult to find 
a repairer who could complete the works. While I note Ms S thinks WBI shouldve appointed 
F sooner, I dont think WBI were unreasonable to first try and source a repairer closer to Ms 
S home, considering how far away F were located and the issues this presented logistically 
with transporting the car.
And when it became clear no other repairer could be found, I think WBI acted fairly by 
agreeing to cover the transportation of Ms S car, when they werent obliged to do so. 
Because of this, considering the avoidable delays I think WBI could control, I think the £300 
WBI have paid, plus covering the costs of transportation to F to ensure Ms S car was 
repaired, is a reasonable offer to make. So, I dont think WBI need to do anything more for 
this aspect of the complaint.
I understand Ms M may dispute this. And I do note during the time she was waiting for her 
car to be repaired, she needed to hire a car to keep her mobile which I dont doubt wouldve 
impacted her financially. So, I appreciate why Ms S feels WBI should cover the costs of this. 
But crucially, the policy terms and conditions explain that a courtesy car would only be 
provided to Ms S if the repairs to her car were completed by an approved repairer of WBIs. 
And on this occasion, I think its clear WBIs approved repairers were unable to complete the 
repairs, due to the expertise needed because of the car Ms S drove. So, I dont think Ms S 
would ever have been entitled to a courtesy car and so, she would always have needed to 
hire a replacement. Because of this, I dont think I can say WBI should cover the costs of this 
hire.
Ive then turned to what I believe to be the main point in dispute, which centres around the 
additional repairs Ms S had to pay for, so her car would pass its MOT in January 2023. I 
note Ms S believes the majority of these repairs resulted from damage caused by her car 
being stored outside while a repairer was found. So, as WBI were responsible for the 
storage of Ms S car during this time, she feels WBI should reimburse her the costs shes 
paid.
As Ive already explained above, I do think there were some avoidable delays when WBI 
were trying to source a repairer. And, as Ms S car roof had been damaged in the incident 
that led to the claim, I wouldve expected WBI to ensure the car was stored in a way that 
prevented further damage. And I think its clear they didnt here. So, I would expect WBI to 
cover the costs of any damage caused by the weather exposure.
But crucially, I would only expect them to cover the costs of the repairs to damage that was 
most likely caused by weather exposure. I note WBI appointed E to consider the repairs Ms 
S paid for and produced a report recommending WBI pay £470 to Ms E for repairs to water 
damage to her drivers side, wheel balancing and replacements speakers. But crucially, they 
didnt think all of the repair work Ms S paid for could definitively be attributed to weather 
exposure. And this included the ACU which Ive focused on as it appears to be the main 
element in dispute.
I want to make it clear its not my role to decide whether or not the ACU was damaged by 
weather exposure, as I dont have the expertise to do. Instead, its my role to consider the 
actions WBI took, in this case refusing to cover the costs of the repairs to the ACU, and 
whether they were fair and reasonable.
And in situations such as these, our service deems it fair that a business such as WBI rely 
upon the expert opinion provided which in this case came from E who were acting 
independently. As E didnt think the ACU was definitely damaged because of the weather 
exposure, citing the age of the car and how this may have had an impact, in line with our 
services approach I dont think Im able to say WBI acted unfairly when relying upon this opinion.
I appreciate Ms S disagrees, and shes provided emails from F which she feels supports her 
position that the ACU was. But I dont think these informal emails alone are enough to say 
WBI shouldve disregarded Es report. And I note our investigator explained to Ms S we 
would require an official report from F which explained in detail why they felt the ACU issue 
was down to weather exposure, and not potentially age related like E felt it was. Ms S has 
been given an opportunity to obtain and provide this to our service, but to this date one 
hasnt been provided.
So, without this, while I do appreciate why Ms E feels unfairly treated, I dont think I can fairly 
say, based on the information available to me, that WBI were unfair when relying upon Es 
report and Es opinion. So, I think theyve acted fairly when only paying the costs 
recommended by E at this point in time, and because of this, I dont think I can say WBI 
should do anything more. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms S was hoping for. And I want to reassure Ms S I have 
thought carefully about the financial impact to her, as shes needed to pay for additional 
repairs she doesnt think she shouldve, had her car not been in storage for as long as it 
was, stored in the way it was. But as Ive explained above, I think the payment WBI has paid 
regarding these repairs is reasonable at this point in time, based on the evidence and 
information thats available to me. 
And while I do think WBI couldve progressed the claim more efficiently at times, and 
communicated with Ms S more proactively, I think the £300 compensation paid fairly 
recognises the impact caused to Ms S that WBI are responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms S about West Bay Insurance Plc trading 
as Zenith Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman