DRN-2787789
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services 
(FCAAS).   
What happened
On 7 September 2019 Mr H acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
FCAAS. The car was registered in September 2010, which means it was about nine years 
old when it was supplied to Mr H. The purchase price of the car was £8,044 and the car had 
travelled 42,147 miles. Mr H paid a deposit of £3,500.08 which meant that the credit was 
£4,543.92 payable over 24 months.
Mr H says that in June 2020 he wasnt able to start his car, so he called out a vehicle 
breakdown agency, which Ill refer to as B, to attend to his car. B produced a breakdown 
report which Mr H shared with us. The report identified a noise coming from the cam housing 
area and advised that the car be recovered to a garage for further checks. 
Mr H says B recovered his car to a local mechanic for further investigation. The mechanic 
concluded that the timing chain needed replacing. At that point Mr H says that he decided to 
refer the car to the dealer where he acquired it from.
Mr H provided an invoice, dated 17 July 2020, showing that he paid £80 to recover his car to 
a franchised dealer, who Ill refer to as D. D also explained that the timing chain needed 
replacing. 
In August 2020 Mr H complained to FCAAS saying that he no longer wanted the car due to 
the faults. Mr H said that he had to rely on family, friends and taxis to get about as his car 
was not driveable. Mr H provided taxi receipts as evidence. 
On 13 August 2020, FCAAS provided their final response to Mr H. FCAAS said the 
estimated cost of the replacement timing chain would be £800. They also advised given the 
age and mileage of the car they wouldnt be able to make any significant contribution. 
However, they offered Mr H £150 as a gesture of goodwill. And in an email sent the previous 
day FCAAS said they wouldnt accommodate a rejection of the car, but they offered to 
refund to Mr H one monthly payment of £189. 
Mr H provided us with a copy of a guarantee he acquired with the car which came with an 
individual claim limit of £1,000. FCAAS also confirmed to us that Mr H was able to claim from 
the guarantee for the repairs. 
In September 2020 Mr H sent an email to FCAAS accepting their offer to repair his car under 
the guarantee. However, in November 2020 Mr H told us that when he tried arranging the 
repairs with the dealer, he was told that the works could be in the region of £2,000.
FCAAS has provided emails from the dealer which advise that they were waiting for Mr H to 
give the approval for the works to begin. FCAAS also told us in December 2020 that they 
were waiting for Mr H to authorise the repair so they could determine the full cost of repairs.
Unhappy with the situation Mr H brought his complaint to us here. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint and concluded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because 
he didnt think the timing chain was durable. The investigator recommended that FCAAS 
allow Mr H to reject the car, refund his payments, reimburse to Mr H the mechanic and 
recovery costs incurred and to pay compensation for the impact the situation has had on 
him.
FCAAS disagreed with the investigator and commissioned an independent inspection of the 
car in April 2021. The inspection concluded that it didnt think the issues were present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr H. However, as the investigators view hadnt 
changed, FCAAS asked that the complaint is referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Since the case had been passed to me, Ive reached out to both parties in relation to redress 
on this complaint. Mr H responded with some further information which Ill refer to below and 
FCAAS referred me to the independent inspection that had been completed in April 2021. 
Ive also commented on this below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would 
need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA 
also explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
From the information provided I think its fair to say there is a fault with the cars timing chain. 
This is apparent from Bs breakdown report, the mechanics conclusion following their 
investigation of the car, the independent inspection report and the emails between FCAAS 
and D advising that the timing chain needed to be replaced. 
Having considered the car had a fault, it seems to me there are two key issues for me to 
consider in relation to this complaint:
was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr H?
If it wasnt, what would be fair and reasonable to put things right?
satisfactory qualityMy starting point is that FCAAS supplied Mr H with a used car that had travelled 42,147 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at £8,044 
which isnt insignificant. So, I also think its fair to expect it could be used free from any major 
issues for a reasonable period of time.
Following our investigators view FCAAS arranged an independent inspection of the car in 
April 2021. The independent inspection report advised that:
the faults would not have been present or developing at finance inception
in our opinion this was a sudden failure
However, the report also advised:
we cannot confirm the exact cause of the faults without further dismantling
the faults are most likely due to wear to the timing chain, but further dismantling is 
required to confirm.
I think its fair to say, from the report, that further investigation is required to understand the 
exact scope of the damage. And although it says the problems wouldnt have been present 
when it was supplied to Mr H, as I mentioned above, I think it would have been reasonable 
for Mr H to be able to drive the car without any major issues for a reasonable period of time. 
I think the timing chain should have lasted longer than it did. And I acknowledge its durability 
would be dependent on certain things like usage and maintenance of the car. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest Mr H hadnt looked after the car within the ten months hed driven it. 
So, to fail at 45,282 miles, is premature and inconsistent with what should reasonably be 
expected.
From the evidence provided I think its fair to conclude that Mr Hs car wasnt suitably 
durable because it suffered a failure which requires major works in relation to a component 
that should reasonably be expected to function longer than it did. So, Im satisfied that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to Mr H.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable to put things right, considering Mr Hs 
rights under the CRA.
Ive thought about whether a repair would be fair to put things right., The CRA says, in 
relation to repairs, the business should: do so within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer.
Having considered everything, I think its fair to say that Mr H has had to go without his car 
for a significant period of time. In the circumstances, Im persuaded its already an 
unreasonable timescale to have to wait for a repair. In addition, its possible the car may 
have incurred further damage from lack of usage for example by lying dormant. 
I also find it likely the cars value would have depreciated to some degree since it broke 
down. Ive also considered that Ive only seen an estimated repair cost leaving the potential 
for a disproportionate ratio of repair cost to value. Im persuaded on balance that its more 
appropriate for FCAAS to allow Mr H to reject the car.FCAAS will need to refund Mr Hs deposit of £3,500.08, as well as ensuring his credit file has 
no adverse information relating to this agreement. 
Mr H should also receive a refund of the monthly payments made since the car became 
undriveable. So, from the evidence provided that would be from 24 June 2020.
Mr H should also receive a reimbursement of the costs hes incurred as a result of not 
having a car. 
Mr H has provided an invoice dated 17 July 2020 for £80 which he said he paid to have his 
car recovered to D, and Im satisfied he paid £200 to the mechanic on 16 July 2020 for the 
initial inspection. 
Mr H has also provided copies of his insurance schedule and bank statements which show 
that he paid for his car insurance while his car was with D. 
Ive considered whether it would have been reasonable for Mr H to declare his car SORN, 
allowing him to cancel his insurance while the car was with D. However I dont think Mr H 
could have reasonably known his car would have been with D for as long as it was, and I 
can see that at one point Mr H had accepted the offer to have the repairs carried out, so I 
think its fair to say there would have been a degree of uncertainty. So, in the circumstances 
I think its reasonable that Mr H continued to pay for his car insurance throughout the first 
year of the car being with D.
Having said that, I think from the end of the insurance policy in June 2021 Mr Hs car would 
have been with D for around 12 months at that point, and I think it would have been clearer 
to Mr H that the situation wasnt to be resolved imminently, pending an outcome from our 
service. So, I dont think it was necessary for Mr H to renew his policy in June 2021. And I 
wont be instructing FCAAS to reimburse Mr H for the policy after June 2021.
Having considered that Mr H was acting reasonably by continuing to pay for his car 
insurance in the first year, Ill be instructing FCAAS to reimburse him the insurance costs as 
Mr H wouldnt have had use of the insurance while his car was with D. 
Mr H has provided an insurance schedule for the period 6 June 2020 for 365 days of cover. 
The schedule shows the cost as being £470.24 which Mr H has also provided a credit card 
statement to show that he paid for it on 27 May 2020.
On a prorated basis, the cost of insurance for the period from 24 June 2020 to 6 June 2021 
is £447. So, Ill be instructing FCAAS to reimburse this to Mr H.
Mr H has explained the impact on him of not having his car available. And I think its fair to 
say that hed experienced some inconvenience from this all of this. For example, in having to 
ask friends and family for support and having to use taxis to get around at times. So, Im 
satisfied that a total of £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him is fair in the 
circumstances 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and instruct FCA Automotive Services UK 
Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services to:
arrange with Mr H to collect the car at no cost to him and take ownership of it
refund the deposit of £3,500.08 paid by Mr H
refund the monthly payments made by Mr H towards this agreement after 24 June 2020
reimburse Mr H £447 for the prorated insurance costs incurred between 24 June 
2020 and 24 June 2021 
reimburse the £280 combined costs paid by Mr H for the initial investigation and 
recovery of his car on 16 July 2020 and 17 July 2020, respectively as detailed in my 
decision
remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file in relation to this agreement
pay Mr H £250 compensation for the inconvenience this would have caused Mr H 
FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services should pay 8% yearly 
simple interest on all refunds and reimbursements calculated from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
If FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my 
award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman