DRN-3744908
The complaint
Ms and Mr P complain about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim they 
made under their household insurance policy following damage to their door.
What happened
Ms and Mr P held a household insurance policy with Admiral. On 18 February 2022, they 
said the wind blew their composite door open, which caused it to crack.
Ms and Mr P contacted Admiral to make a claim for their door to be replaced. They 
explained that theyd obtained 3 quotes to replace the door from tradespeople who were 
able to undertake this task. They said the quotes were similar in value, which were in the 
sum of around £4000. 
Admiral accepted the claim and appointed a company, which Ill refer to as E to assist it. E 
visited Ms and Mr Ps property on 28 March and sent Admiral a quote for replacing the door, 
which it said would cost around £1000. 
Admiral offered to cash settle the claim in line with the quote E had provided. However, as 
this was significantly less than the quotes that Ms and Mr P had obtained they disputed that 
the replacement had been quoted on a like for like basis and complained to Admiral about 
how it was intending to settle their claim.
In their complaint, Ms and Mr P explained that they were unhappy with the cash settlement 
Admiral had offered. They said the claims process had been over complicated, caused 
additional distress and inconvenience and had impacted on their ability to undertake their 
job. They said this was because theyd spent five hours on the telephone in discussing and 
progressing their claim with Admiral. They also said they had to wait at home to obtain 
quotes for a replacement door from tradespeople. And they said this all led to them having to 
appoint an administrator to progress their claim on their behalf.
Admiral investigated Ms and Mr Ps concerns and upheld their complaint. It agreed that there 
had been confusion caused by E and delays in how the claim had been progressed. It paid 
them £200 for the trouble and upset this had caused. 
Admiral also accepted that it would be unfair to ask E to replace the door because it wasnt 
able to provide a like for like replacement and said it was willing to cash settle Ms and Mr Ps 
claim in line with the quotes theyd provided as a result. It paid them just over £4000 for the 
cost of the replacement door in May 2022.
Being dissatisfied with Admirals response to their complaint, Ms and Mr P referred it to our 
service where an investigator assessed what had happened. They didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. They noted that, prior to this complaint being referred, Admiral had 
cash settled in line with the quotes provided by Ms and Mr P. And they thought the 
compensation it had already paid was fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances. So, 
they didnt think Admiral needed to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Admiral accepted our investigators view of this complaint, but Ms and Mr P rejected it and 
requested an ombudsmans decision. So, Ive been asked to determine the fairest and most 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Ms and Mr P and 
Admiral for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all 
the information provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point that Ms and Mr P or 
Admiral have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I 
think are the key issues  an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
My role is to assess whether I think Admiral made a mistake, or treated Ms and Mr P 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything they and Admiral have said, Ive largely reached the same findings as our 
investigator for reasons that Ill set out below.
Its clear that the cost of replacing Ms and Mr Ps door was substantial. The terms of their 
policy of insurance permit Admiral to cash settle a claim up to the amount it would incur if 
one of its contractors undertook the required work. So, Im persuaded it was reasonable for 
Admiral to appoint E to assist it in quantifying loss. An insurer is entitled to do that in 
assessing a claim and Im satisfied that appointing E was appropriate given it deals with 
claims involving doors and glazing.
Had the quote from E been offered on a like for like basis, it would have been reasonable for 
Admiral to limit its liability in this claim to around £1000 in line with the terms of the policy, 
which was cost of the replacement door (as quoted by E). But here there was a clear dispute 
between Ms and Mr P and Admiral about the value of the damaged door and this caused a 
delay in the claim being settled.
Based on the business file Ive seen, its clear that there was much confusion as to whether 
E had quoted for a like for like replacement. Admiral stated that E provided contradictory 
information as to whether the replacement door it had quoted for was being offered on a like 
for like basis. And the issue doesnt appear to have been resolved until 27 April, which was 
the date on which E confirmed it couldnt source a like for like replacement.
As E visited Ms and Mr P's property on 28 March, and taking into account that the quotes 
provided to Admiral were around 4 times higher, Im persuaded that concerns regarding 
whether the replacement door was like for like ought to have been resolved sooner. 
It shouldnt have taken a month for E to confirm that the door it had quoted for was 
unsuitable to Ms and Mr P, who understandably wanted to replace their door with a model of 
similar quality. I think that this caused delay in how the claim was progressed, which caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Im persuaded that the delay caused by E due to the contradictory information it gave 
Admiral was just under month. I say this because, had E been unable to quote for the 
replacement door at the time of its site visit, it should have been able to do so within a short 
time following its attendance at Ms and Mr Ps property.Im pleased to see that, ultimately, Admiral cash settled this claim in line with the quotes 
provided by Ms and Mr P, which as Ive already mentioned were similar in value. So, I dont 
need to consider whether Admiral should do anything further to settle the claim for the 
damaged door. Instead, this decision will address whether any unrecovered losses that Ms 
and Mr P may have suffered need to be paid by Admiral and whether the compensation 
already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill deal with both issues separately.
Are there any unrecovered losses that need to be paid by Admiral?
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Ms and Mr P appointed an administrator to 
assist them with this claim. They feel this was necessary and Ive seen evidence showing 
that they were charged a fee of just under £150 by the administrator.
While there was some confusion between E and Admiral, this claim was relatively 
uncomplicated. I say this because Admiral had accepted that Ms and Mr Ps claim was valid 
from the outset and had explained that it would cover the cost of a replacement door under 
their policy. So, the only issue that needed to be decided was the value of the damaged 
door. 
Its reasonable to expect an insurance claim to involve a certain level of stress and 
inconvenience and to take up a certain amount of a policyholders time. Its also reasonable 
to expect a policyholder to have to speak to their insurer to progress their claim and be at 
home for tradespeople to able to quote for work  this is a necessary step in the process of 
quantifying a claim.
Ive had had sight of an invoice that Ms and Mr P sent our investigator, which shows the cost 
the administrator charged together with a description of the tasks they assisted with. These 
tasks include collating quotes, organising reminders, organising and drafting emails, 
recording emails and diary management. Im not persuaded the individual appointed 
undertook anything particularly complex or that Ms and Mr P wouldnt have been able to do 
for themselves. 
While I recognise that there were additional difficulties within the claim process as a result of 
the contradictory information provided by E and consequential delay, I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that it was necessary for Ms and Mr P to have to appoint an 
administrator to liaise with Admiral on their behalf . 
I also havent seen any evidence that Ms and Mr P informed Admiral of their intention to 
instruct an administrator. Had they done so, Admiral said it would have told them clearly that 
it wouldnt cover that cost as part of the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr P but, for the reasons outlined, it wouldnt be fair to direct 
Admiral to reimburse the cost they incurred in appointing an administrator.
Ms and Mr P told our investigator that they made 5 lengthy calls to Admiral of around 5 
hours in total during their claim. I invited them to submit evidence these so that I could 
consider whether the cost of these calls should be reimbursed.
I havent seen any evidence from Ms and Mr P showing the cost of telephone calls to 
Admiral. I understand that they havent submitted the evidence requested. So, I cant assess 
whether theyve incurred a cost in telephoning to Admiral and, if so, how much its cost them. 
In relation to any other unrecovered losses, Ms and Mr P havent provided evidence that 
demonstrates they incurred losses as a result of having to take additional time away from work because of the delay and confusion caused by E. So, I cant fairly say there are any 
unrecovered losses that Admiral hasnt paid.
Is the compensation already paid fair and reasonable?
I can see from the business file that Admiral has provided our service that it initially offered 
Ms and Mr P £100 in compensation for the delay. As Ms and Mr P were unhappy with this 
amount it increased the sum to £200 and paid this by cheque, which it said took into account 
the number of calls made to it to chase the progress of the claim, the contradictory 
information given and delay caused by E. 
Ms and Mr P appear to think that they should be awarded an overall compensation sum of 
£500 but Ill explain why Im not persuaded.
To resolve this complaint, our investigator recommended no further compensation award 
because they were thought the £200 compensation already paid was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive carefully considered how Ms and Mr P are likely to have been affected by what 
happened. I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Ms and Mr P and I imagine that 
they thought, at the start, their claim was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss. 
However, that didnt happen; the claim process was unnecessarily complicated by 
contradictory information and delay.
Im persuaded that the delay of around a month in this claim being settled would have 
caused Ms and Mr P additional distress and inconvenience and led to them spending more 
time in contacting Admiral to chase the progress of their claim and to clarify confusion 
surrounding the cost of the replacement door. 
I recognise that Ms and Mr P have spent longer in communicating with Admiral because of 
the contradictory information provided by E and that delay was caused.  And I appreciate 
that this claim has taken up more of everyones time than it should have done. But, taking 
the impact of the errors into account, Im satisfied that the compensation already paid fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience Ms and Mr P would have been caused. Its is in 
line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told Admiral to pay had 
an award not been suggested by it already. Im sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr P but I havent 
seen any evidence to merit a higher compensation award. So, Im not going to ask Admiral 
to increase the compensation its already paid. 
I realise Ms and Mr P will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, 
in trying to resolve their dispute with Admiral informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant 
help Ms and Mr P any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman