DRN-3453990
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) allowed a fraudulent 
account to be opened in his name.
What happened
In late 2017, a small short-term loan was taken out in Mr Cs name. Lending Stream 
received no repayments. They wrote to Mr C a number of times over the following months, 
but got no reply. They defaulted the account and sold it on. 
In late 2021, Mr C complained. He explained this wasnt his loan and he hadnt received the 
letters. He explained it had put a lot of strain on him and caused him trouble with credit. 
Lending Stream investigated and agreed the loan was fraudulent. They bought back the 
account and wrote it off.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint in part. They 
explained that Lending Stream had done appropriate checks at the time the loan was 
applied for, and didnt have good reason to doubt it was genuine. And they found Lending 
Stream had investigated things quickly when Mr C reported the fraud. But they could see 
thered been a delay in removing the default from Mr Cs credit file. They recommended 
Lending Stream pay him £200 compensation.
Both parties appealed. Lending Stream felt £200 compensation was too much, and offered 
£50 instead. Mr C felt Lending Stream had been negligent, and he wanted to stop this 
happening to anyone else. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I will say that I appreciate Mr C has been the victim of a crime, and he has my 
sympathy. Hes been through a truly tough time, and I can completely understand his 
strength of feeling and why hes brought the case to us. I appreciate that the fraudster has 
caused him a great deal of trouble and upset.
I also understand Mr Cs points around Lending Stream granting a loan to the wrong person. 
I should explain that we expect a business checks to be proportionate to the lending. So for 
example, the checks for a large, long-term, secured mortgage would normally be more 
involved than for a small, short-term, unsecured loan like this.
In this particular case, I think the checks that Lending Stream did were broadly appropriate 
considering the nature of the loan. The fraudster had Mr Cs correct details on hand and was 
able to make it look like it was him applying. And Lending Stream checked things with a 
credit reference agency. It doesnt look like Lending Stream had sufficient reason to think 
this was fraud at the time. 
So as far as Lending Stream knew back then, this was a legitimate debt of Mr Cs which they 
had legitimate reason to pursue him for and to register on his credit file. 
Further, while I understand Mr C doesnt recall receiving any of Lending Streams letters, 
I can see they were sent to the correct address at the time, back before Mr C moved.
Of course, once Lending Stream were made aware of the fraud, Id expect them to act 
promptly and look into this. But here, they got back to Mr C and investigated things really 
quite quickly.
I do understand that Mr C is unhappy with Lending Streams setup in general, and I can 
certainly appreciate that he wants to stop this happening to other people. I should explain 
that its the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short)  who look at the 
overall way businesses work and who regulate their processes. Im not best placed to 
comment on the way Lending Stream work as a whole, and I cant change their general 
setup; Im only able to look at complaints about individual situations. 
Here, I can see that theres been a significant delay in getting this loans default removed 
from Mr Cs credit file. I understand this has added extra trouble and upset for Mr C in what 
was already a very stressful situation.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation  to 
acknowledge their mistakes and the impact they had. When it comes to the amount of 
compensation, its worth bearing in mind that the actions of the fraudster, rather than 
Lending Stream, will have been primarily responsible for what happened here. Its also worth 
keeping in mind that were not here to punish businesses or to issue large fines  again, that 
would be something for the regulator to consider. We have guidelines about what levels of 
compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with those. Taking everything into 
account, I agree with our investigator that £200 compensation is fair in this case.
Putting things right
Gain Credit LLC should:
Make sure there are no entries or markers for this account on Mr Cs credit file, 
including the default; and-
Pay Mr C £200 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part, and direct Gain Credit LLC 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman