DRN-3039784
The complaint
The estate of Mr P (the estate) complains the whole of life protection policy Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited sold to Mr P was unsuitable and that Mr P thought it was a savings 
policy.
What happened
Mr P purchased a Senior Security Plan in 1999 from a business I will call C. Phoenix are 
now responsible for the sales made by company C. The sum assured was paid out to the 
estate when Mr P passed but this was less than the premiums hed paid into the policy. The 
estate complained to Phoenix that Mr P had told his wife that this policy was a savings policy 
and said Mr P didnt need this cover. The estate also said that Mr P later took out a funeral 
policy with another company. And that this supports Mr P thought the policy with Phoenix 
was a savings policy.
Phoenix responded to the complaint and told the estate Mr P hadnt received advice when 
he bought the policy. They said the sum assured was fixed and the policy details explained 
there was no savings element and no surrender value. And that a customer could receive 
less back than they had paid in. Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint.
The estate wasnt happy with the response it received from Phoenix and brought the 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for the estate and 
thought that as the sale was a non-advised sale, Phoenix hadnt done anything wrong.
The estate didnt agree with our investigator and has asked that an ombudsman decides the 
complaint. It says Mr P was in his seventies when he bought the policy and didnt 
understand it wasnt a savings policy. The estate said Mr P wasnt financially experienced 
and hed only taken out industrial branch savings policies in the past. And this made Mr P 
more vulnerable to being provided with a policy that was unsuitable. The estate said there 
was no need for Mr P to take this policy out at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the estate will be disappointed but for very much the same reasons as our 
investigator, Im not upholding this complaint. I will now explain why.
The sale of the policy took place more than 20 years ago and there is no point of sale 
information available. However, Phoenix have been able to provide a copy of the policy 
literature and a sample copy of the application form and policy schedule from the time. 
Theres no other documentation from the time of the sale so Ive considered what Phoenix 
provided, along with the testimony from the estate, to decide what is likely to have 
happened.
Phoenix believe the policy was applied for when Mr P responded to an advertisement. This 
seems to be likely as this type of policy was, and still is, generally marketed by life 
assurance providers in the press or other publications. There is no evidence that Mr P 
received or asked for advice at the time. And theres no testimony from the estate that an 
adviser visited Mr P to provide advice.
In circumstances like this, I would expect the business to provide clear policy information 
that didnt mislead Mr P about the features of the policy. Because the policy was purchased 
without advice Phoenix didnt have to tell a customer if the policy was suitable. In this case, 
the policy documents clearly explained the policy would pay a selected sum assured on 
death after the first year of the policy. If death occurred in the first year all premiums 
wouldve been refunded. And if death was caused by an accident in the first year the sum 
assured would be paid. The same document explained the policy could never be cashed in 
and Mr P could pay in more than the death benefit claimed. The application form provided a 
number of options for life cover based on set monthly premiums. On acceptance Mr P 
wouldve received a schedule confirming the premium and sum assured with no reference to 
a cash in value. So, Im persuaded Phoenix provided sufficient information for Mr P to have 
made an informed decision to take out the policy.
I appreciate the estate say Mr P told his wife he had a savings plan. I can understand the 
estate feels Mr P didnt have any level of financial knowledge at this time. And that this may 
have made him more vulnerable to these types of sales. But I cant say the information 
Phoenix provided to him at the time was misleading. And, although the estate doesnt agree, 
I consider the addition of a helpline number in the Senior Security Plan brochure gave Mr P 
the opportunity to ask Phoenix if he had any concerns at the time.
The estate has referred to a policy Mr P purchased in 2007 from another provider, which it 
says was a pre-paid funeral plan. The estate says this supports that Mr P didnt understand 
the policy from Phoenix wasnt a savings plan, and that it wasnt needed by Mr P. Im afraid I 
dont see it this way. A funeral plan is a completely different policy to a life cover policy. It 
provides cover for the cost of a funeral, usually a fixed cost. But the life cover within the 
Phoenix policy is payable to the estate to distribute to beneficiaries. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded this supports Mr P wouldve been confused between the two types of policies. It 
seems just as likely to me that Mr P felt there was a need to pay for his funeral and provide 
some life cover to be paid to his beneficiaries.
Ive noted Mr P developed Alzheimers in 2010. I understand this would have been a difficult 
time for Mr P and his family. And if the policy had been taken out around this time I wouldve 
considered this further. However, the policy with Phoenix was purchased in 1999 and Mr P 
went on to purchase a policy with another provider before he developed Alzheimers. So, Im 
persuaded Mr P likely had some knowledge of financial products and was able to deal with 
his own financial affairs at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman