DRN-4266930
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that they are unhappy they couldnt port their mortgage with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to a new property, and so they had to pay an early repayment charge 
when they paid off their mortgage. They also consider the amount of the ERC is unfair and 
didnt represent a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs to Barclays of them exiting their 
product early. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage of £324,000 with Barclays at the end of 2019. It was 
arranged on a repayment basis over 30 years. Attached to the mortgage was a fixed interest 
rate product, which had an early repayment charge (ERC) of 3% if the mortgage was repaid 
before the end of its term on 31 October 2024.
The mortgage offer explained that Mr and Mrs C might have the option to transfer the 
outstanding balance of the loan to another property, but that was subject to the new property 
and their circumstances meeting Barclays lending criteria as it was at the time of 
application. Barclays has evidenced that its lending criteria regarding the location of any 
property to be mortgaged is that it had to be located in the UK.
In 2023 Mr and Mrs C decided to move home and applied to Barclays for a new mortgage on 
their proposed new home and asked to port the existing product to the new mortgage, 
thereby avoiding having to pay the ERC. When Mr and Mrs C told Barclays of their plan, it 
confirmed that it didnt lend on properties where they were proposing to buy, as it was 
outside the UK. As such, when the existing mortgage was repaid, an ERC would be payable.
Mr and Mrs C complained and asked Barclays to waive the ERC, given the circumstances. 
Barclays responded to the complaint in its letter of 29 March 2023. It didnt uphold the 
complaint, as it hadnt made a mistake. Barclays highlighted the mortgage offer 
Mr and Mrs C accepted had detailed the ERC. In addition, the terms and conditions had 
confirmed that properties outside of mainland UK did not meet its lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs C were not satisfied with Barclays response and referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. When they did so they also complained that the amount of 
the ERC meant it was a penalty on them. They said they didnt think it was a genuine 
pre-estimate of the costs Barclays would incur if they repaid their mortgage early. As such, 
Mr and Mrs C said the ERC was not legally enforceable.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He was satisfied Barclays had reasonably applied the ERC when Mr and Mrs C 
repaid their mortgage and that it was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to Barclays of 
early repayment.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. They expressed dissatisfaction 
that they were not given access to the methodology of how Barclays had estimated the ERC. 
They said they believed this failed to comply with its requirement to make charges 
transparent to customers. They also said they dont consider they were treated fairly as the 
ERC was unfair and excessive, and they believe it didnt reflect the cost to Barclays of early 
termination of the product, as most of this would be the lost interest payments over the 
remainder of the term. Mr and Mrs C consider the ERC should be on a sliding scale due to 
this, as the losses Barclays would make in the first year would be far more significant than 
they would be in the fourth or fifth year. Furthermore, they put forward that any loss Barclays 
suffered due to them ending the mortgage early, should be offset by any benefit it derived 
from the mortgage before that point.
The Investigator considered what Mr and Mrs C had to say, but he didnt change his 
conclusions. As such, it was decided the complaint should be passed to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, amongst other 
things, the relevant rules and regulations. The relevant rules for residential mortgages are 
set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. However, a lender can choose how it calculates an 
ERC and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, 
rather than for individual loans. Barclays is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual 
cost to it of Mr and Mrs C ending their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate 
of the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. 
However, the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends 
early, it doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in 
raising the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
It is complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. Also, it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So, Barclays is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. However, thats allowed; Barclays doesnt have to refund the difference, 
but equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr and Mrs C before the 
mortgage was advanced, and it was expressed as a cash value in that document. They 
accepted the offer and the ERC that was associated with it, even if they thought at the time it 
was unlikely they would have to incur it.
Given the property Mr and Mrs C wanted to buy fell outside Barclays lending criteria, it was 
not unreasonable for it to decline to allow a port. As such, when the mortgage was paid off it 
was also not unreasonable for Barclays to charge the ERC that Mr and Mrs C accepted as 
part of the mortgage they had entered into. So Ive considered whether the ERC was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. Barclays has provided us with evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this group 
of mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Barclays has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Mr and Mrs C. 
The information from Barclays shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It shows 
that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the 
capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments 
that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. I have 
looked carefully at what Barclays has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the 
ERC.
Mr and Mrs C consider the ERC is unfair because it is for more than the amount of interest 
that would have been paid to Barclays over the remaining term of the interest rate product. 
As I have explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC 
is calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by Barclays if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. 
MCOB only requires Barclays to make a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the 
mortgage being repaid early across a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what it 
has done. Furthermore, based on the information presented to me I consider it was 
reasonable for it to charge the ERC it did.
I note that Mr and Mrs C asked Barclays to waive the ERC. However, there was no reason 
for it to do so, as it hadnt done anything wrong. This service can only uphold a complaint 
and award redress if a financial business has done something wrong. As I am satisfied 
Barclays didnt, there are no grounds for me to uphold the complaint and order it to refund 
the ERC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 December 2023. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman