DRN-1811606
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim against his private  
healthcare plan.  
What happened
Mr B was a beneficiary of his wifes Business Healthcare plan up to November 2019. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The plan provides cover for eligible treatment given by a consultant recognised by 
Vitality following referral for further treatment by a GP. The plan doesnt cover 
treatment by a consultant not recognised by Vitality. 
Vitality provided Mr B with the names and contact details of several consultants it 
recognised. I think that Vitality treated Mr B fairly in doing so. 
Mr B is concerned about the procedure commonly offered in the UK for his condition. 
He wanted to pursue the matter with a doctor who wasnt recognised by Vitality. 
Vitality tried to help Mr B by corresponding with the office of Mr Bs choice of doctor. 
Unfortunately, the doctor Mr B chose couldnt satisfy Vitalitys recognition criteria. 
Thats because part of Vitalitys recognition criteria requires the doctor to hold or 
have held in the last two years a substantive, non-locum appointment of consultant or 
senior lecturer status in an NHS hospital, or to provide evidence of status and clinical 
experience which, in Vitalitys opinion, is equivalent to that required for appointment 
to such a post. I understand the Mr Bs choice of doctor doesnt hold an NHS post 
and works only a few days a month in the UK. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think that Vitality treated Mr B fairly. It provided details of 
consultants it recognised and tried to assist Mr B by corresponding with his choice of 
doctor in relation to its recognition criteria. 
I appreciate that this matter was frustrating for Mr B, but Vitality isnt obliged to agree 
to proceed with a doctor it doesnt recognise. I dont think its unreasonable for Vitality 
to have recognition criteria for healthcare providers and to apply them in this case.
Vitality said that it could have responded to Mr B sooner than it did and paid him 
compensation of £100 in relation to that. I think that was fair.
There are no grounds on which to direct Vitality to do more than its already done. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman