DRN-3729587
The complaint
Mr D complained to this service as he felt Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited had not sent 
him information or acted as they ought to have done when he came to take benefits.
What happened
In summary, on 27 February 2020 Mr D contacted Aviva as he wanted to take benefits from 
his pension. He referred to having seen the impact of the financial markets on the 
performance and value of his pension. Aviva explained they needed to send him a 
retirement options pack. Aviva say they advised Mr D it could take until 7 March 2020. Mr D 
wasnt happy with this and indicated he wanted to complain. 
Aviva say they explained to Mr D that a number of customers had come to the same 
conclusion as him and as such they were busier than usual. They say they explained this 
meant their turnaround times were being somewhat increased. Mr D says Aviva had 
previously said the pack would take three days to arrive. 
Mr D called Aviva again on 27 February 2020 as he was unhappy with what he had been 
told and wanted his pension to be frozen. Aviva said they couldnt do this. 
On 3 March 2020 Mr D contacted Aviva to let them know his pack had not arrived. The 
request was reviewed and escalated as Aviva realised Mr Ds request on 27 February 2020 
had not been actioned. On 4 March 2020, Aviva sent Mr D his pack; it was however wrongly 
sent by surface mail and not email. Mr D is unhappy as he says Aviva promised him the 
pack would be with him by 5 March 2020. Aviva say they escalated Mr Ds request on 3 
March 2020, due to their error in respect of the 27 February 2020 request.
On 6 March 2020, Aviva contacted Mr D. They identified Mr Ds pack had been sent by post 
and not email. On 9 March 2020 the pack was sent to Mr D by email. Aviva also contacted 
Mr D and offered him £250 to reflect the impact of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva also agreed to review if there had been any financial loss occasioned to Mr D. 
On 11 March 2020, Aviva received Mr Ds completed pack. Mr D does not agree what he 
returned to Aviva ought to be described as a completed pack. Mr D agrees he returned the 
required information.
Aviva say they completed their relevant checks and work for the next stage to progress the 
claim on 12 March 2020, so this date (12 March 2020) was used as Mr Ds valuation date. 
Payment then being made on 17 March 2020.
Aviva said they would complete a loss calculation on the basis Mr D ought to have received 
his pack on 5 March 2020. They said their loss calculation then allowed for a three working 
day turnaround to follow, as that was how long it had taken for Mr D to return his pack and 
for them to complete the next stage. This meant the loss calculation was to be worked out as 
if Mr Ds valuation date was 10 March 2020. Aviva also offered to pay interest at 1.5 % 
simple a year on any loss sum. Mr D disagreed and the complaint was referred to this 
service.
Investigators view
In summary the investigators view was that Aviva hadnt offered enough. She said Aviva 
ought to have used a different date on which to assess loss, and that interest at 8% simple a 
year needed to be paid up to settlement, on any loss figure identified. She also thought 
Aviva ought to be required to pay Mr D a total of £500 to reflect his distress and 
inconvenience (so an additional £250 to the original offer). 
Responses to the view
For various reasons neither Mr D, nor Aviva accepted the recommendations of the 
investigator.
Provisional decision
On 12 September 2022 I issued a provisional decision in this case. In this I set out that I 
intended to uphold the complaint, but that I intended to depart from the thinking of the 
investigator. 
I thought Avivas original offer, apart from their approach to interest was fair overall. The date 
of 10 March 2022 being used for the loss calculation was not unreasonable and the offer of 
£250 had been fair in the circumstances. I indicated it was right for Aviva to pay interest at 
8% simple a year on any loss sum.
Avivas response to the provisional decision.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. They confirmed they had made a payment to Mr D 
on 27 April 2020 of £10,010.69 to reflect their original loss calculation. Aviva reached the 
figure using 10 March 2020 as the loss calculation date. They had added interest on the full 
sum for period of 10 to 17 March 2020, which was up to the date Mr D received his benefits; 
and then a further addition of interest onto the loss figure, calculated to 24 April 2020, their 
resolution date. Aviva agreed they would go on to calculate any additional interest due.
Mr Ds response to the provisional decision
Mr D wasnt happy with my provisional decision. I am not going to set out everything he sent 
in response; however I have read it with care.
Mr D is concerned that I might have been in direct contact with Aviva, and in particular in 
respect of the approach to interest. I would also like to reassure Mr D this is not the case. 
Aviva wrote to the investigator prior to the case being allocated to me and acknowledged 
they knew what our usual approach to interest was. I have not been in contact with either 
party in this matter individually.
In general terms Mr D feels I have not provided sufficient reasoning and he thinks I have 
taken into account matters he thinks were already addressed. He also stresses he believes 
he ought to be provided with full answers to queries he raised with Aviva. 
Overall Mr D feels he provided proof Aviva gave undertakings on a timetable that they failed 
to perform to. He says the information he received from Aviva was unambiguous in respect 
of what they would do and when. In addition Mr D believes that where a standard timescale 
is given, it ought to be adhered to.Mr D has made further submissions, including about the date to be used for the valuation of 
his fund. He has also expanded on his thinking on why he believes that Aviva ought to have 
been expected to complete work more quickly than they did or than I have considered 
reasonable. Mr D referred to his experience with another provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision. I am upholding 
Mr Ds complaint as Aviva did not provide the service they ought to have done; and although 
they accepted this when replying to Mr Ds complaint, their approach to redress was not 
quite what I think it ought to have been. 
I consider the main thrust of Avivas original offer was reasonable. Avivas approach to 
assessing whether Mr D had suffered a loss (using the date they suggested) was fair and 
reasonable, and their offer of £250 to represent the distress and inconvenience occasioned 
to Mr D was also fair. However Aviva didnt offer to apply 8% interest simple to any loss sum 
identified which I think they ought to have done.
In responding to my provisional decision Mr D let me know he felt it would be productive to 
have a face to face meeting and said this was so that we could air views. He suggested in 
the alternative we could speak on the telephone. I hope Mr D will not see this as any 
discourtesy, but I didnt consider this was necessary or appropriate in the context of this 
complaint.
This service provides an informal dispute resolution service as an alternative to the courts. It 
is my role to consider everything provided to reach my decision. It would be unusual for me 
to consider it necessary to obtain additional evidence by speaking to parties directly. When I 
issued my provisional decision this was the extent to which I would share my view on a case 
in advance of reaching a final decision. When I make my decision, I provide my reasons for 
reaching my decision. This is done in writing. It is ultimately for me to decide what I consider 
relevant and persuasive in reaching my decision. 
I am comfortable I have been provided with the material required to enable me to reach a fair 
and informed decision. I am also comfortable Mr D has been provided with sufficient 
opportunity to provide evidence and submissions. I consider I understand his view on this 
complaint. I have reflected carefully on everything he has provided. But I dont consider this 
to be a complex complaint. And whilst I am sorry my provisional decision disappointed Mr D 
and caused him surprise and distress, I havent been persuaded to change my thinking. 
As I have set out, this service is an informal alternative to the courts. If Mr D chooses not to 
accept my decision he will not be bound by my decision and can pursue any claim he wishes 
elsewhere. 
Mr D feels I did not provide sufficient reasoning in my provisional decision. I am sorry Mr D 
feels this way. Ultimately it is for me to reflect on what I include in my decision. I am not 
required to set out every point or issues that has been raised for example. I also appreciate 
that when it comes to making a decision about what is and is not reasonable there may be 
differences of opinion. For example here Mr D strongly feels that where a business provides 
an undertaking or service standard in respect of an action being completed within a specified 
time frame, this ought to be met.Here, there were failures to perform within certain timeframes, and also within time frames 
Mr D thinks ought to have been possible. There were failures around the service provided to 
Mr D too. My role has been to look at what happened, any impact on Mr D and here to 
decide whether Avivas offer to redress everything was fair in all of the circumstances.
Whilst I accept certain activities could have been performed and completed differently and 
sometimes more quickly, and that Mr D believed they would be and should be, that doesnt 
mean I think the time taken was unreasonable. 
Ive seen what Mr D has told me of his professional background and experience. Mr D rightly 
refers to having clearly spent time putting together his most recent submission and the 
thought he has put into it. I can assure him I have given it, and all he has said, my full 
consideration.
There has been substantial communication between Mr D and Aviva as well as the 
investigator since Mr D first complained. Mr D has raised a number of questions, requests, 
and submissions. Aviva and the investigator have provided further material and information, 
including on how pensions work, and I hope Mr D found value in what was provided.
I am not summarizing everything that has been said, and I hope the parties will understand I 
mean no discourtesy by this. I would like to assure all parties I have considered everything 
that has been provided to this service with care and attention. I have focussed for on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Ultimately, Ive needed to decide if Avivas offer was reasonable and fair in all of the 
circumstances. In other words whether Aviva offered enough or not, to reflect what went 
wrong, or the things that ought to have been done differently, when Mr D came to take 
benefits in 2020.
 
How and when the pack was sent and Avivas offer
 
Aviva were required to send Mr D a retirement options pack when he came to take his 
benefits. I appreciate Mr D was worried when seeing the impact the market fluctuations were 
having on his pension fund, and this was unfortunately a position shared by many. It would 
not have been reasonable to have expected Mr Ds request for a retirement options pack to 
have been prioritised above others, based on this information alone. I also dont consider it 
would have been unreasonable in the circumstances for it to have taken a week for a pack to 
have been delivered to Mr D following his request.
Mr D doesnt think I ought to have considered the difference between the values on 10 and 
12 March 2020, as part of my considerations, as he had already been reimbursed for that 
loss by Aviva. But I dont agree, I think this issue is relevant to the totality of his complaint 
and whether he was treated fairly.
 
At the centre of Mr Ds complaint is his dis-satisfaction that he did not receive his pack (not 
that he necessarily places any value in this pack) and thus didnt receive his benefits at the 
value he thinks it ought to have been nor as quickly as he thinks he ought to have done. As 
such he says he suffered a loss.
Aviva agreed in the particular circumstances here, that Mr D did not get his pack and thus 
his benefits on the date he ought to have done. Aviva provided the date they thought ought 
to be reasonably used for valuation and for a loss assessment (10 March 2020). Mr D didnt 
agree this was right. Mr D thinks he ought to have had the valuation calculated to an earlier 
date and he thinks everything took too long.So I consider the issues of whether Aviva were right to use 10 March 2020 as the date for 
valuation and loss assessment, and whether the redress they have already paid was 
enough, to be at the centre of this complaint.
Aviva accept they made an error on 27 February 2020 by not properly setting up and 
progressing Mr Ds request for a pack. Aviva also accept their error on 4 March 2020, for 
sending the pack by post and not email. If things had been done as they ought to have been, 
and using Avivas own intended turnaround times, its clear Mr D ought to have received his 
pack before 9 March 2020, which is when he did receive it.
 
There is no precise date on which it can reasonably be said Mr D ought to have received his 
pack. It was not unreasonable for Aviva to use 5 March 2020, for the date on which Mr D 
ought to have received his pack by. This being the fifth working day (inclusive) from Mr Ds 
request on 27 February 2020.
I dont consider it was unreasonable for Aviva to have offered to use three working days from 
5 March 2020 receipt of the pack, for the date for their loss calculation. This was the period 
of time it took from when Mr D actually received his pack until when Aviva were able to 
progress the claim. As such I consider this a fair approach. In general terms I would consider 
this to be an efficient turnaround time, and faster than might still be considered reasonable.
I understand Mr D doesnt agree. Mr D thinks Aviva are wrong to have used a three working 
day turnaround in their calculation, he thinks it ought to have been two working days. 
Mr D says his claim ought to have been able to be progressed on 11 March 2020 when he 
returned his claim information, and not 12 March 2020. He thinks that Avivas administration 
and checks and progression could and should have been done the same day as it was 
received. Mr D also submits his expectations were based on the information Aviva gave him.
He thinks his fund value ought to have been frozen on the date he returned his information 
for claim to Aviva (11 March 2020). This being two working days after he received the pack. I 
understand he draws the analogy with an instruction to sell investments and his experience 
of trading.
Whilst I accept Aviva may have been able to complete the next stage of their work the same 
day that Mr Ds information was received, that does not make it unreasonable or excessive 
for Aviva to have been in a position to progress the claim on 12 March 2020. I take into 
account for example the fact that it would not be reasonable to expect Aviva to have 
identified and prioritised Mr Ds request above others as soon as they received it and the 
possibility of reasonable slippage.
I accept Mr D wasnt always given the most accurate information. But this doesnt mean 
however that Mr Ds fund value ought to have been frozen, or his claim progressed on 11 
March 2020 or on a two working day turnaround rather than a three working day turnaround. 
Importantly here, it doesnt mean it was unreasonable or excessive for Aviva to have used a 
three day turnaround from when the pack ought to have been received by Mr D, to assess 
when they ought to have been in a position to have progressed his claim (and thus his fund 
value to have been assessed for the purposes of any loss).
I consider three working days is not an unreasonable period to be used. I dont consider it 
excessive when looking at what Id usually expect in such circumstances. I have taken what 
Mr D was told on different dates into account when considering what Aviva offered to make 
things right (including the loss calculation and an award for distress and inconvenience).Avivas offer to Mr D to calculate any loss due to Mr D, on the basis of a valuation date of 10 
March 2020, instead of 12 March (as was the actual date) was a fair and reasonable offer, 
taking account of all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
What Aviva need to do
A loss was identified as having been suffered by Mr D, and its agreed Aviva have paid a 
sum to reflect this. 
 
But Aviva did not pay interest at 8% simple a year on the loss figure calculated as they ought 
to have done here. So there remains a sum to be paid to Mr D in line with what I set out in 
my provisional decision. Aviva are required to pay a sum to Mr D representing the sum he 
ought to have received at the time in 2020 had Aviva applied interest at 8% simple a year at 
the time of loss calculation, and interest (8% simple a year) will need to be paid on such 
sums up to the date of settlement. Aviva have acknowledged they understand this.
Award for distress and inconvenience
I have considered everything that has been said about this and how Mr D felt. Having taken 
everything into account, and considering all the circumstances, I continue to think Avivas 
offer of £250 was sufficient. It isnt clear to me if the offered sum of £250 was paid to Mr D 
already or not. If it has not been paid, it must be paid to Mr D within 28 days of Aviva being 
informed of the acceptance of my decision.
There was a limited period of delay here and Aviva immediately accepted responsibility 
appropriately for where they hadnt provided the service they ought to have done and 
undertook to make good any loss that might reasonably be identified. Nothing has been 
provided that suggests to me the short period of delay before Mr D received his benefits had 
a significant impact on Mr D, such as missed payments that were due to third parties. 
Mr D felt frustrated and he was clearly worried about his pension losing value. However 
some of these concerns arent ultimately attributable to Aviva and what they could have 
done better here. 
Ive seen the suggestion that the offer of £250 doesnt take account of everything that went 
wrong and the suggestion it was intended to cover only parts of the failures and delays. I 
think ultimately Aviva intended this offer to cover everything that happened. There was 
repeated contacted between Mr D and Aviva after he first complained, and Aviva had time 
and opportunity to review and extend their offer if they felt it did not represent all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Overall I consider Avivas offer of £250 to have been at the upper end of the type of award 
Id expect to see in similar circumstances, and as such their offer was enough. There is more 
information about our approach to awards for distress and inconvenience available on our 
website.
Mr D has asked me to take into account that after he complained and the loss calculation 
and sum was paid, he has spent time asking Aviva further questions and he has been dis-
satisfied with the responses he received. In general terms this service is unable to consider 
complaints about complaints handling. Ive seen that Aviva did provide Mr D with additional 
information, and I have also seen Mr D provided additional questions, he indicated his dis-
satisfaction with the explanations and made further submissions. I have seen a stage was 
reached in September 2020 when Aviva told Mr D they werent willing to review his 
complaint again and they didnt think they could add anything further to explain their position. I havent been persuaded I ought to increase the award for distress and inconvenience here 
or that I ought to require Aviva to do anything further beyond that contained in this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I am upholding Mr Ds complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited. Aviva are required to pay the outstanding sum to reflect the interest that ought to 
have been paid on the loss sum in 2020 to Mr D. The outstanding sum from 2020, will need 
to have interest applied at 8% simple a year until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman