DRN-4242266
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy. 
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr L bought a new watch. He sent RSA the receipt and asked it to add it 
to his home insurance policy.
In April 2022, the watch was stolen from Mr L whilst he was on holiday abroad. So, he made 
a claim under the policy.
RSA accepted the claim and offered him a cash settlement of £23,800. It said it couldnt 
replace the watch as the manufacturers waiting list was around six to seven years.
Mr L raised a complaint with RSA. He was unhappy that RSA had only offered him the 
amount hed paid for the watch. The price of the watch on the second-hand market was 
much higher.
RSA maintained its position. It said it had adhered to the terms and conditions of the policy 
and had applied the correct limit to Mr Ls claim. It was unable to issue a settlement above 
the amount specified on Mr Ls policy.
Mr L remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator didnt 
think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that RSA had acted in line with 
the policys terms and conditions and thought its cash settlement offer was fair.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said he didnt think timescales had been 
taken into consideration. He updated RSA on his watch purchase at the correct time, but it 
didnt go on cover until after the theft had taken place. He therefore didnt receive the policy 
wording about letting RSA know of a difference in value from replacement and purchase until 
after the theft. 
Mr L said adding the watch to the policy was reviewed by a specialist underwriting team that 
would have been aware of its replacement value. He felt he was entitled to the value of the 
watch which was £55,000 according to the RSA loss adjusters at the point of theft. He also 
felt he should be compensated for the time hed spent discussing the claim with RSA, its 
agents, a jewellery shop and the ombudsman service. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say:
If we cant either economically repair an item or replace it with an item of similar quality, 
well agree a cash payment with you based on the items replacement value.
The information from both parties suggests that the wait time for a replacement watch was 
around six to seven years or more. So, I think it was reasonable for RSA to offer Mr L a cash 
settlement. 
The terms and conditions go on to say:
The most well pay for any one claim is the amount itll cost us to replace your insured items 
as new  but this cant exceed the sum insured or any limits shown on your Policy Schedule, 
whichever is lower.
There are two watches listed under Specified Personal Possessions on Mr Ls policy 
schedule under the Out & About Cover section. There is a sum insured of £23,800 next to 
Mr Ls stolen watch.
Beneath this it says: Let us know if the cost to replace your items as new is more than the 
limits shown above.
The schedule is dated about a week after Mr Ls watch was stolen in April 2022. However, it 
indicates that the change was made from the date after Mr L emailed RSA to let it know 
about the purchase of his new watch in December 2021. The receipt shows the purchase 
price for the watch was £23,800 in December 2021.
RSA says its usual practice is to record the value of an item as the amount on the valuation 
or purchase receipt provided. If a customer wants it to be valued at a higher amount it can 
amend it, but they would need to provide a valuation or purchase receipt that reflects the 
new amount within 30 days.
Its unclear why RSA didnt send Mr L an amended policy schedule after he provided the 
purchase receipt in December 2021. However, I think it was reasonable for it to have set the 
sum insured as the amount showing on the receipt. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
You must tell us within 30 days as soon as you know about any of the following changes:
an increase in the value of items shown on your Policy Schedule
I appreciate Mr L didnt receive the revised schedule until April 2022, which was after the 
watch had been stolen. However, the policy schedule shows that the single item limit was 
£2,000 and Mr L already had his other watch listed under Specified Personal Possessions. 
Mr L provided evidence of the value of the item when he purchased it. It was up to him to let 
RSA know if he was aware of any change in the value.
I understand that the type of watch Mr L purchased is much more expensive on the second-
hand market due to a shortage of supply relative to demand. However, the terms of the 
policy only require RSA to settle Mr Ls claim up to the sum insured. So, I think RSAs 
settlement offer was fair.I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr L, but I think RSA has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman