DRN-3031100
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2008. Miss T says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as EGG, mis-sold her the PPI.
Ill refer mainly to Barclays to keep things consistent.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Barclayss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ts. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ts 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Barclayss subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of 
PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Barclays says its records show the PPI was sold to Miss T over the internet. Barclays sent 
us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Miss T would have used during the 
online credit card application back in 2008. It says she would have been presented with a 
yes / no choice about having PPI with her new card. It says she would have had to choose 
one of the two options to be able to continue her way through to the next stage of the 
application and that she must have chosen the yes option on the screen for PPI to be 
added.
Theres no dispute Miss T was sold PPI. So I think shed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on her monthly statements over quite a 
long period of time. I also think Miss T would have been sent a welcome letter explaining 
the PPI because Ive seen other very similar cases where this was done. 
So, on this basis I think its much more likely Miss T asked for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if she hadnt agreed, she would have 
wanted to know what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring. On balance, I 
think she probably agreed to the PPI. 
This wasnt an advised sale as Miss T would have completed the application herself and in 
her own time. And so it was for Miss T to decide for herself what she wanted to do. Barclays 
had a responsibility to provide clear information to allow her to make that decision.
Its certainly possible Barclays could have explained the policy in more detail than it did, 
although I can see there were some links to the key features of the PPI. So I think Miss T 
probably had enough information to decide what she wanted to do. Even if I accept more 
could have been explained by Barclays, I dont think this makes any difference to my 
decision.
This is because the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss T, for example she wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. I have looked carefully at what 
her representative said about her having certain medical issues from 1987 and 2004. These 
pre-date the sale by many years and few details or evidence was provided. So, whilst I 
accept these may have been of concern to Miss T, I dont think they change anything  the 
policy wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was most likely given at the point of sale.
I see there were some additional policy rules about the cover for back problems and mental 
health issues, but I have seen nothing to suggest that these would have mattered too much 
to Miss T in her situation. I also doubt she would have expected to claim for a back problem, 
for example, without first providing at least some evidence, which is what the rules required. 
Overall, I think Miss T was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the cover seems affordable 
for her and the PPI would have paid off 10% of her outstanding credit card balance each 
month for up to a year if shed needed to claim. Looking at Miss Ts job and general 
circumstances, I think this would have been useful.
Miss Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of her individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclayss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Miss T about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Miss T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Barclays didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss T because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Ts representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Miss T should get back 
all the money she paid for the policy because: Barclays failed to tell Miss T about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Miss T wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipconsumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Miss T in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Ts representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclayss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss T paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss T with the policy Ive concluded 
above she would still have taken out if Barclays had done everything it should have done  
but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclayss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Ts complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Miss T an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). I 
understand it has already done this.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman