DRN-2734447
The complaint
Ms G complains about Hiscox Insurance Company Limited and their decision not to cover 
the costs of additional repair needed to her car.
What happened
In August 2015, Ms G contacted Hiscox to make a claim on her car insurance policy after 
her car had been damaged by fallen scaffolding. Ms G says Hiscox asked her to choose a 
local garage near to her to complete the repairs. This repair work was completed, and the 
claim was settled.
But in 2018, Ms G noticed scratches beginning to appear on the roof of her car. And in 2019, 
these scratches began to appear on the bonnet and boot as well. So, Ms G contacted the 
original garage that completed the repairs and asked them to complete the work needed to 
repair the resurfaced scratches.
Although the garage recognised the initial re-spray had failed, they didnt agree to complete 
any further work. This was due to how long it had been since the initial work and the fact the 
original garage had gone bankrupt so new owners were now in place. So, Ms G contacted 
Hiscox and asked them to cover the costs of the work, as they were the insurer that 
arranged and paid for the original work. But Hiscox explained that, as the original garage 
werent one of their approved repairers, the repair work wasnt covered by the warranty 
included with Ms Gs insurance policy. And they explained even if it was, the warranty only 
covered three years after the work was completed. And Ms G had contacted them after this 
time. So, they didnt offer to cover the costs of the work. Ms G was unhappy with this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Ms G said Hiscox hadnt offered her the choice of using an approved repairer. So, she didnt 
think it was fair for them to say the work wasnt covered under the warranty. And she didnt 
think the three years was a reasonable amount of time, when the Supply of Goods and 
Services act stated any service received should be covered for six years. So, she wanted 
Hiscox to cover the cost of the work needed to repair the scratches on her car.
Hiscox didnt agree. They explained they were unable to listen to the call to say for definite 
whether Ms G was offered the chance to use an approved repairer. But even so, they 
explained Ms G contacted them outside of the warranty time frame, so didnt think Ms G 
wouldve been able to use the warranty anyway. So, they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong when not accepting to cover the additional repairs. Ms G remained unhappy with this 
response so asked us to look into it further.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought, on balance of 
probability, it was most likely that Ms G wasnt offered the choice of an approved repairer. 
So, they recognised Ms Gs upset caused by this. But, crucially, she didnt think this left Ms 
G in a disadvantaged position as Ms G contacted Hiscox after the warranty period had 
elapsed. So, she thought Ms G was in the same position she wouldve been in had Hiscox 
offered her this choice. And she explained she couldnt hold Hiscox for the quality of the 
repairs as they were instructed independently. Because of this, she thought Hiscox had 
acted fairly when refusing to cover the costs of the repair work and didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Ms G didnt agree. She didnt think the warranty Hiscox wouldve provided was reasonable 
as the Supply of Goods and Services Act stipulates the purchase of goods and services 
should be covered for six years. So, she maintained her view that she shouldve been 
offered the choice and that if she had, the costs of the additional repair work shouldve been 
covered. So, thats what she wanted Hiscox to do. As Ms G didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Ms G. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been upsetting for Ms G to find damage to her car when she thought it had been 
rectified. And I understand why she feels unfairly treated as to complete the additional work, 
she will be left out of pocket. When the initial damage was caused, Ms G had insurance in 
place to cover this financial burden, so I can understand why she thinks Hiscox have a 
responsibility to ensure the additional repairs are undertaken at no expense to herself. But 
for me to say Hiscox should cover the cost of this work, Id need to be satisfied of two things. 
First, that they failed to make Ms G aware of the benefits of using an approved repairer and 
the choice to do so. And secondly, that Ms G has been disadvantaged by this failure. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive come to this decision, I want to clarify what I can consider and what 
actions Hiscox are responsible for. As the garage who initially repaired Ms Gs car werent 
acting as an agent of Hiscox, I cant hold Hiscox responsible for the issue with the quality of 
the repairs they completed. What I am able to consider is whether Hiscox acted fairly and 
reasonably when explaining Ms Gs choosing when she initially made her claim, and when 
they refused to cover the costs of the additional work some years later. 
Ms G has said she was asked to choose a garage local to her when she initially made her 
claim in 2015 and wasnt advised of her option to choose an approved repairer. Hiscox have 
confirmed due to the length of time its been since this conversation was held, they dont 
have the call recording to provide. Hiscox arent obliged to keep call recordings for a certain 
period of time, so I cant say theyve done anything wrong by providing a copy. But this 
means Ive had to consider what I think most likely happened during that call.
The terms of Ms Gs policy explains that Hiscox will where necessary recover the insured 
vehicle to a destination or repairer of your choice or if you prefer to a repairer approved by 
us. I think this term suggests that Hiscox left it to Ms G to ask for an approved repairer. And 
Ms Gs testimony confirms she wasnt made aware an approved repairer was an option. So, 
on the balance of probability, I think its most like that Ms G wasnt offered the choice of 
using an approved repairer. And I think she shouldve been as this then provided Ms G with 
warranty over any of the repairs that were completed. If Ms G had been offered this, I think 
its likely she wouldve chosen an approved repairer due to the warranty that came with it. 
So, I dont think Hiscox acted fairly in relation to this part of the complaint.But Ive then had to consider whether this error by Hiscox has impacted on Ms Gs ability to 
recoup the costs of the additional work needed to repair her car.
The terms of Ms Gs policy explain that Hiscox will guarantee the repairs to the insured 
vehicle if carried out by an approved classic car repairer for a period of three years. Ms G 
didnt notify either the original garage or Hiscox of her concerns surrounding the quality of 
the original repairs until more than three years later. So, even if the work had been 
completed to the same standard by an approved repairer, the additional work needed 
wouldnt have been covered by the warranty Hiscox provided. Because of this, I dont think 
Ms G wouldve found herself in a position any different to the one she now finds herself in. 
And so, I cant say Ms G has been impacted by Hiscoxs error in a way that means they 
need to do anything more to rectify it.
I understand Ms G doesnt agree with this and has referred to the Supply of Goods and 
Services Act after seeking legal advice. Its true this act does explain that a consumer should 
have the right to seek a repair, replacement or refund if the goods or service they provided 
were proven to be faulty or deficient. But I dont think this act applies in this case. Ms G 
wasnt purchasing goods or services. Ms G was making a claim on her insurance policy to 
repair her car, which I think is the goods she purchased. And repairs arent covered under 
this act. Usually, repairs are completed, and a warranty is provided to cover the quality of 
them for a specified period of time. In this situation, the warranty Hiscox provided lasted 
three years. I dont think this is an unreasonable amount of time for the warranty to be in 
place, so I cant say its unfair.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms G was hoping for. And I appreciate why Ms G sees 
the repairs as a service she received. But I dont think this was a service she purchased. It 
was a service completed under an insurance claim to repair the car that she bought. 
Because of this, and the fact any warranty Ms G would have had if shed used an approved 
repairer wouldnt have been valid, I dont think Hiscox have acted unfairly when not offering 
to cover the costs of any further repairers.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint about Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman