DRN-2912434
The complaint
Miss B complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In January 2021 Miss B fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Miss B has told us that, on 14 January 2021, she received a call from an individual saying 
they were from HMRC and that she had unpaid tax. The caller told Miss B that the 
outstanding tax had to be paid immediately to cancel an order for her to be arrested. They 
added that they had visited her house, but as she wasnt there this is why they were now 
calling her.
Miss B has told us that while on the phone she checked the number that she had been 
called from online, and it appeared as the Ministry of Justice (MOJ). Miss B says she 
understands the MOJs role to be one of criminal prosecution, so she was anxious about 
getting the call from them.
She added that the caller knew details about her, including her name and address, and they 
quoted British law and were using legal language. Miss B said that at the previous company 
she had worked for, there had often been tax errors and she thought it was something to do 
with that. Miss B said she wanted the threat of imprisonment to stop and she was scared of 
being arrested. She was told if she didnt pay immediately police would come to her house to 
arrest her. Shes said she felt impelled to resolve things by doing what she was being asked 
to by who she thought was the MOJ, by making the payments the caller was instructing her 
to. But unknown to her at the time, she was speaking with a fraudster.
Believing the call to be genuine, Miss B went ahead and followed the fraudsters instructions 
to make payments. She was told to make her payments through her Revolut account, rather 
than the account she held with another bank, as the fraudster told her the transfer would be 
instant if she made it through her Revolut account. Over the course of just under three hours 
Miss B made the following transfers, totalling £6,650, to two separate accounts, under the 
fraudsters instructions;
14/1/2021 11:18am £999
14/1/2021 12:02pm £925
14/1/2021 12:31pm £926
14/1/2021 13:04pm £925
14/1/2021 13:06pm £925
14/1/2021 14:04pm £1,950
Miss B has said that about an hour or so later she called the MOJ to check that the 
payments had been received and that any order against her had been stopped. On speaking 
to the genuine MOJ she was told that it was not them who had called her, and at this point 
she realised she had been the victim of a scam.
Miss B raised the matter with Revolut, who contacted the receiving bank, but no funds 
remained. Revolut said it wouldnt refund the scam payments as Miss B had authorised 
them. It also said it had provided her with warnings about scams at the time, after blocking 
attempts to make the first payment and final payments.
Miss B then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
thought Revolut should have done more at the point it had recognised the suspicious activity 
on the account. She considered if it had done so, Miss B wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
payments and wouldnt have lost this money, so she thought Revolut should refund the 
money she had lost, along with interest.
Revolut, didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary it maintained that it had 
blocked the payments and provided a warning. It added that it didnt think direct contact with 
Miss B would have made a difference, and that due to fear she would have still gone ahead 
with the payments. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I accept the transactions were authorised payments, even though Miss B was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used the Revolut banking app and her security information to make 
the payments. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss B is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. - In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
From looking at Miss Bs account statements in the six months leading up to the scam, Im 
persuaded the payments Miss B made to the fraudsters werent typical of her usual account 
activity. There isnt really any disagreement about this point, as Revolut has confirmed the 
first transfer for £999 was flagged and declined by its systems, due to it being suspicious 
and uncharacteristic in nature. With this in mind, I have to consider whether Revolut did 
enough once it suspected there was a high risk of fraud. 
Revolut has said the following warning was displayed each time the attempted payment was 
blocked: 
Review transfer
Our systems have identified your transaction as highly suspicious. We declined it to protect 
you. If you decide to make the payment again anyway, you can, and we wont decline it. As 
we have warned you this payment is highly suspicious and to not make the payment, if the 
person you pay turns out to be a fraudster, you may lose all you your money and never get it 
back. You can learn more about how to assess this payment and protect yourself from this 
link: https://takefive-stopfraud.org.uk/
Miss B had to acknowledge this message in order to move on. She has said that she has no 
recollection of seeing this warning, nor does she recall a warning about not paying a new 
recipient unless she knew the person, though it seems likely, based on the available 
evidence, that she was presented with such warnings. 
I acknowledge Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to 
detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of 
fraud and for when it ought to intervene. Here, it thinks the warnings it gave were enough in 
the circumstances. And its said how it cant give detailed warnings about all the different 
types of scam that a customer might be falling victim to. But Im satisfied it ought, fairly and 
reasonably, to have done more here. 
Banks are expected to carry out the payment instructions it receives from its customers. But 
that isnt without exception and the broad regulatory landscape obliges banks to protect its 
customers from fraud and financial harm. Im not persuaded the action taken, in the 
circumstances of this case, was enough to protect Miss B, particularly when considering how 
the pattern of spending continues to present as being high risk in terms of known patterns of 
fraud (multiple new payees, payments made in quick succession, the balance of the account 
being cleared repeatedly). 
The warning Miss B was given was very generic and didnt highlight what the risks of making 
the payment might be. Miss B was given no context as to what Revolut thought might be 
wrong or how she might protect herself (aside from simply not proceeding). And it is the 
case, as Ive mentioned, that once the warning had been given, the account activity became 
more suspicious, not less so.
Without proactive steps to break the spell of fraudsters, customers will often proceed with 
the payment they are making. They are unaware that they are caught up in the scam. And 
when sophisticated elements such as number spoofing are involved, then the scam becomes significantly more persuasive. A generic and unspecific warning is unlikely to have 
the required impact on a customer that has been manipulated into action through a 
combination of sophisticated means and fear. 
Had Revolut intervened Im persuaded, on balance, it more likely than not would have made 
the difference and I dont think Miss B would have gone ahead with the payments. I say that 
as it doesnt appear Miss B was given a cover story for these payments. So if asked by 
Revolut what the payment was for, I think she would have spoken freely and explained that 
shed been called by the MOJ and told to make immediate tax payments, and that shed be 
arrested if she didnt. I would then have expected Revolut, which would have more 
awareness of common scams than Miss B, to have realised this was a scam. As the 
financial professional in this situation, I consider it likely that, if it had explained its concerns 
to Miss B, this would have broken the spell.  I think this is supported by Miss Bs 
uncovering the scam herself, shortly after she had made the final payment. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether Miss B ought to bear some responsibility for her loss, 
considering her actions at the time of the scam. I dont think Revolut has given enough 
consideration to the fact the fraudster had created an environment where Miss B was in fear 
of arrest, if she didnt act quickly. Here, Miss B received a call on a spoofed number. She 
checked that number online before making any payments. And I dont think it should be 
underestimated how powerful that can be in affecting a customers decision making. Most 
people wont be aware that such a technique is even possible. The convincing nature of 
these scams can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process and make them 
take steps that, in the cold light of day they might not otherwise take.
In considering all of the circumstances of the case I dont find Miss B should bear any 
responsibility for the loss by way of contributory negligence. She was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam and Im persuaded she was unaware of the risks in making the 
payments she did. Revolut, as the expert in the relationship, ought to have done more.
Putting things right
Revolut Ltd should now;
- Refund Miss B the £6,650 she lost and;
- Pay 8% interest per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) from the 
date of the transactions to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman