DRN-3295181
The complaint
U, a limited company, complains that Revolut Ltd didnt complete an important international 
payment and delayed returning its money.
What happened
U attempted to make the payment of £4,815 on 15 September 2021. The director was 
unhappy to be asked what the money was for. And he then requested the payment be 
cancelled. The money wasnt returned until the following day. 
Revolut said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that the payment had been in review. And 
that as it relies on third parties to process bank transfers some security measures and 
restrictions may be applied. It said that due to the regulatory framework it wasnt able to 
disclose the exact reasons here. Revolut said that this was normally a quick process but 
there had been a heavy demand for services.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She referred to Revoluts 
terms and conditions and specifically part 22 which stated that:
We must refuse to make a payment, or delay a payment in the following circumstances:
if legal or regulatory requirements prevent us from making the payment or mean that we 
need to carry our further checks
This payment was flagged for a due diligence check and U was asked for proof of payment 
required and the nature of the transaction. U didnt provide this and asked for the money 
back at 15:47 that day. There was online chat involving the director asking where the money 
was at times from 15:59 to 21:09. This money was returned on 16 September 2021 at 07:38. 
Given U hadnt provided the information requested this wasnt unreasonable.
U didnt agree. The director said that this money was being sent to a University with the 
reference tuition so it was obvious what it was for. U transferred money from another 
account to Revolut to make the payment as it thought the transfer would be faster. There 
was a delay in refunding the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut was required to ensure that it complied with all regulatory and legal requirements. 
How it does so is a matter for it to determine and is covered as our investigator has stated by 
its terms and conditions. And this might mean, as here, that additional checks were required 
on a payment. The money was being sent abroad and Revolut explained that further 
information was required to support this payment. I understand what U says but the narrative 
on the payment and the nature of the beneficiary were insufficient for Revolut. I am unsure 
why U couldnt have provided that information especially as it explains this was a business to 
business payment.
In any event once the payment had been made and was pending there was clearly a 
process for it to be cancelled. I know U wanted its money back straightaway but that wasnt 
possible, and I dont think that the time before it was returned was unreasonable and taking 
into account that U hadnt dealt with the questions Revolut had raised.
So, I wont be requiring Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman