DRN-3603071
The complaint
Ms L and Mrs S have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unreasonably declined 
their request to transfer their joint mortgage into the sole name of Mrs S and to switch it onto 
a repayment basis. They also say the mortgage was mis-sold by Barclays. To settle the 
complaint they want Barclays to provide a longer-term repayment mortgage, either in joint 
names or in Mrs Ss sole name.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 6 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, rather than repeating all the 
details here, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. Finally, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Ms L and Mrs S being identified.
Briefly, in 2008, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser (IFA), Ms L 
and Mrs S re-mortgaged their property to Barclays. I am told that the property comprises a 
house which is occupied by Mrs S and her children, and a granny annexe which Ms L lives 
in. Although I understand the annexe is separately rated for council tax, both it and the 
house are held under one title number at the Land Registry and so are considered to be a 
single property.
The mortgage is on an interest-only basis over a term of 21 years from 2008. For the first ten 
years the mortgage was on a fixed rate, thereafter reverting to Barclays Standard Variable 
Rate.
In 2020 an application was made to switch the mortgage onto a repayment basis, to extend 
the term to 22 years (from 2020) and to transfer it into the sole name of Mrs S. Barclays 
declined the application, saying that it would be unaffordable in Mrs Ss sole name and that, 
in any event, it was against its lending policy to remove one borrower if that borrower was to 
remain living in the property.
A complaint was made to Barclays that the mortgage had been mis-sold and that the bank 
was acting unreasonably. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, but did pay compensation of 
£150 for delay in responding to the complaint.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, the complaint was brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. He didnt think Barclays 
was responsible for any complaint about mis-sale of the mortgage, because Ms L and 
Mrs Ss IFA had arranged the mortgage for them. 
However, the investigator thought the complaint about changes to the mortgage should be 
upheld. He noted that rules introduced in 2014 after the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) 
meant that Barclays didnt need to assess affordability. He thought the proposals put forward 
by Ms L and Mrs S for their future finances were credible and that there was little risk to 
Barclays in agreeing to switch the mortgage into Mrs Ss sole name, on a repayment basis, 
due to the amount of equity in the property. He provided details of income and expenditure 
which he said Barclays must take into consideration.
The investigator said that Barclays should do one of the following. Either change the 
repayment type, extend the term and allow Ms L to remain on the mortgage. Although this 
would exceed Barclays maximum age policy, it made little difference as Mrs S was paying 
the mortgage. Alternatively, Barclays should change the repayment type, extend the 
mortgage term and remove Ms L as a borrower. He also thought Barclays should re-work 
the mortgage as if this had been done in July 2020, and use any overpayments to reduce 
the mortgage balance. He also asked Barclays to pay an additional £300 compensation.
Ms L and Mrs S accepted the investigators findings. They added that theyd contacted their 
IFA again after the mortgage changes were refused, and the IFA said that Barclays had 
misled them. Ms L and Mrs S also said that Barclays wouldnt take Ms Ls two pensions into 
account, or Mrs Ss additional self-employed income that was in addition to her full-time 
salary. 
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators outcome. Barclays noted that, when the 
mortgage was applied for in 2008, the bank was told that a sale of the property was to be the 
repayment vehicle for the interest-only mortgage. 
The bank explained that, on Mrs Ss salary, the mortgage would be almost six times salary if 
it was to be in her sole name. Barclays also noted that, although child maintenance had 
been included as income, given the age of the children, this would not be long-term. As a 
result, there were still concerns over affordability, notwithstanding that there was unsecured 
credit that would be repaid within a year.
Barclays also didnt agree to pay £300 compensation, as the bank said no error had been 
made.
Ive clarified with Ms L and Mrs S what their intentions were in relation to the title to the 
property. Ms L has explained that the intention at the time of the application was that the 
mortgage would be in the sole name of Mrs S, but the title to the property would remain in 
joint names. However, when Barclays said that this wasnt acceptable and that Ms L would 
have to move out, the bank would not then agree to change the mortgage onto a repayment 
basis in joint names and extend the term, due to Ms Ls age.
Ms L says that if Barclays would now agree to offer Mrs S a mortgage in her sole name and 
she came off the title, she would do that, and would either gift her interest in the property to 
Mrs S, or accept a token payment of £1. Ms L would then remain living in the annexe, with 
the property and mortgage in Mrs Ss sole name.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2022 in which I made the following findings.
First of all, I note Ms L and Mrs S have complained that the mortgage was mis-sold in 
2008. But Barclays didnt sell the mortgage, it was arranged by Ms L and Mrs Ss 
own IFA. If they are unhappy about the advice they were given in 2008, theyll need 
to raise this with their IFA, as its not something for which Barclays is responsible.In relation to the complaint about making changes to the mortgage, after careful 
consideration, Ive reached a different conclusion from the investigator; I dont think 
Barclays has acted unfairly. These are my reasons.
Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Barclays makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly 
discretionary matters for Barclayss own commercial judgement that I would not 
interfere with. But I also have to consider the relevant rules, and whether or not 
Barclays should have disregarded them or made an exception in this case.
Removing Ms L from the mortgage: Barclays has explained that it is not within its 
lending policy to allow an existing borrower to come off a joint mortgage, remain 
living in the property, but the property remaining in joint names. Im satisfied that this 
is reasonable. 
It is generally a requirement that all parties on the title to the property must be on the 
mortgage; otherwise the lender is at risk because the joint property owner who is not 
on the mortgage could sell or dispose of their interest in the property. This would then 
create additional risk for the lender, if the joint owner has the right to sell their interest 
to a third party, as it would compromise the banks security. So there are valid 
reasons why Barclays doesnt allow this, and Im satisfied these are legitimate and 
justifiable reasons.
Given this, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to decline an application to remove 
Ms L from the mortgage, if she was to remain on the title. (As I said above, Ms L has 
now clarified that she would be willing to come off the title, but that wasnt the 
scenario Barclays was presented with.) The issue of affordability didnt need to be 
considered at that point, because the application was outside Barclays lending 
criteria due to the requested change to remove Ms L from the mortgage but not the 
title.
Keeping the mortgage in joint names: 
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash 
in 2008. This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about 
requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and 
encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old 
rules but not under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The 
rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional 
borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage 
that is material to affordability.
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out 
an affordability assessment if: the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; 
and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage 
takes place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a 
reason to decline an application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the 
customers best interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as 
part of its consideration of best interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go 
down. If theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to 
affordability, theres no obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And 
if there is a change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a 
lender could still decide to allow an application without an affordability assessment if 
doing so would otherwise be in the borrowers best interests.
Clearly, the switch from interest-only to capital repayment is a change that is material 
to affordability, as a capital repayment mortgage will involve higher repayments. 
Barclays didnt undertake a detailed affordability assessment because the application 
put to it  to remove Ms L from the mortgage but not the title  didnt meet lending 
criteria. 
In addition, keeping the mortgage in joint names, extending the term and converting it 
to capital repayment didnt meet Barclays criteria either, in terms of the maximum 
age limit (which Ms L would have exceeded by 17 years). Given this, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays should have made an exception to its lending policy in this 
situation. 
Although Mrs S was confident shed be able to pay the mortgage without assistance 
from Ms L, its unlikely the opposite would be the case if Mrs S should pre-decease 
Ms L or otherwise become unable to work. Barclays has to consider affordability in 
relation to all borrowers, not just the younger one who is in employment. 
Overall, I am not persuaded  on the basis of the application that was made to the 
bank  that Barclays has acted unfairly. It wasnt possible to remove Ms L from the 
mortgage but for her to remain on the title, and converting the mortgage to a capital 
repayment basis and extending the term in Mrs Ss sole name wouldnt have been 
affordable, even if there had been no issues concerning the joint title to the property. 
A joint repayment mortgage with an extended term didnt meet Barclays lending 
criteria in relation to the age of the borrowers. I also dont think that keeping the 
original mortgage term but converting the mortgage to capital repayment would have 
been affordable either, given that the term had less than nine years left to run at the 
time of the application in July 2020. 
So in all the circumstances, I dont find Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in declining the application. Im also not persuaded that Barclays should have made an exception to its lending criteria on the best interests basis, for the reasons given 
above.
Barclays paid compensation of £150 for delay in responding to the complaint. I think 
this is fair and I dont intend to order Barclays to pay any further compensation.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays had nothing further to add. 
Mrs S has made some further points, which I summarise below:
the annex is classed as a home for a dependent relative for council tax purposes;
Barclays is asking for a dependent relative to move out, which is the opposite of what 
the Rt Hon Gordon Brown was advocating at the time they bought the property;
Barclays didnt understand their situation;
they accept the rules, but only if they are realistic;
affordability wasnt an issue and Barclays didnt take all Mrs Ss income into account;
Mrs S has life assurance and she and Ms L both have Wills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again, revisited my provisional decision and considered the points 
made by Mrs S. Having done so, I am not persuaded to depart from the conclusions reached 
in my provisional decision.
Im satisfied, given that Mrs S wanted to apply for a new mortgage product in her sole name 
on a capital repayment basis (changing from the existing joint interest-only mortgage), that 
there was a change to the mortgage that was material to affordability. Given this, the 
regulations allowed Barclays to consider affordability.
Ive noted what Mrs S has said about this. She has told us that she is solely responsible for 
paying the mortgage. Barclays had concerns around affordability in Mrs Ss sole name, as 
income from maintenance payments was unsustainable over the mortgage term and likely to 
cease within a few years. But affordability was not the only factor that needed to be taken 
into consideration. 
Ive considered again whether Barclays should have allowed the changes Mrs S wanted to 
make to the mortgage based on the best interests part of the regulations at MCOB 11.7.2, 
disregarding an affordability assessment. Mrs S wasnt asking for any additional borrowing, 
but wanted to re-arrange the existing loan over an extended term, on a capital repayment 
basis. In those circumstances, the rules say that Barclays need not apply the rules  it does 
not say Barclays must not apply them.
I can see from its internal notes that Barclays thought Ms L was selling her interest in the 
property to Mrs S but remaining in occupation  which is outside Barclays lending policy. 
This policy is, I think, likely due to the legal risk of an overriding interest arising in favour of 
Ms L as a non-owning party in occupation of the property at the time of the mortgage, as this 
interest could take priority over Barclays legal charge.Im satisfied that this is a policy Barclays is entitled to apply here. When deciding its lending 
criteria, the bank is entitled to consider not only the interests of the borrowers, but also its 
own interests, including the exposure to risk for the bank in relation to a particular lending 
decision. I find it is reasonable for Barclays to have declined the application on this basis, 
notwithstanding that rearranging the loan as Mrs S wanted might have been in her best 
interests under MCOB 11.7. The risk to Barclays security would have been compromised by 
allowing the changes Mrs S was asking for.
I asked for clarification from Mrs S and Ms L of what their proposals were and they 
confirmed that the intention at the time of the application was that Ms L was actually going to 
remain as a joint owner of the property, she would continue living in the property, but would 
not be a party to the new repayment mortgage. This would be an even greater risk to 
Barclays than if Ms L was a non-owning occupant, because she would be on the legal title, 
in occupation of the property, but not on the mortgage. In my experience, I think its unlikely 
any mortgage lender would offer a mortgage to a sole borrower where the property is owned 
jointly with another party who is living in the property but who is not also a party to the 
mortgage.
The mortgage term is due to expire in 2029. I understand Mrs S and Ms L are keen to 
reduce the capital balance on the mortgage  which is why Mrs S wanted a capital 
repayment mortgage in her sole name, but over a 22-year term. For the reasons given 
above, Im satisfied that Barclays reasonably declined that application. It might be helpful for 
Mrs S and Ms L to speak to Barclays about what interest rate products are available that 
would allow them to move onto a lower interest rate but make regular overpayments to 
reduce the capital balance without incurring any early repayment charges. Alternatively, if 
they are not currently subject to any early repayment charges on their existing mortgage and 
dont wish to be tied into a new interest rate product, the terms and conditions may allow 
them to make unlimited overpayments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman