DRN-1751686
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains about what happened, leading up to a default being placed on her credit file 
by Barclays Bank UK Plc. Mrs Bs complaint has been brought on her behalf by her son, 
Mr B.
What happened
Mr B told us that he updated his own details and his mothers details with Barclays. He says 
as part of this he gave Barclays his new address and information to pay the direct debit for 
his mothers credit card. But then some time later, he found out the payments hadnt been 
taken. Because no payments had been made onto the card, it had been defaulted. 
Mr B said that he and his mother didnt get any warning of this. They only realised when a 
letter from a debt collection agency was sent to his old address. He said hed provided the 
updated details during a call received from Barclays in May 2019. Mr B told us he now thinks 
that call wasnt from the bank, and it must have been a scam. 
Mr B said he got another call from Barclays in January 2020, asking him to pay the balance 
in full and offering to delete the default from Mrs Bs credit file if he did. He said he called 
Barclays back at this time, and was told the number hed received the call from couldnt 
make outgoing calls. 
Mr B has shown us he received an incoming call from a number associated with Barclays. 
And Barclays has confirmed what Mr B said about this, that its only used for incoming calls. 
Barclays cant dial out from that number. 
Mr B said his credit file and Mrs Bs are pristine, and they had plenty of money to make this 
payment, so it makes no sense that the account should default for what he said was only 
£300. (Barclays said that the total debt was over £3,000.)
Barclays said that no one had paid into the account since March 2019. It had no record of Mr 
B contacting it to update his details, or to set up a direct debit to pay Mrs Bs account. 
Barclays said it had tried to contact Mrs B on the address it held for her. It had also tried to 
contact her by SMS or email. None of this had been successful, and no payments were 
received, so Barclays eventually defaulted the account. 
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it asked Mrs B to liaise with its 
collections agent to pay off the debt now. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt disbelieve 
that Mr B and Mrs B were acting on the impression that their addresses had been updated, 
and that their contact details had been updated. But he said Mrs B still had a responsibility to 
keep her other contact details up to date, and Barclays had tried to contact her by phone and 
email as well as by post. He said that he couldnt ask Barclays to remove the default. 
Mr B said the number was his old one, and no emails had been received. He wanted this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Barclays internal notes of calls say Mr B told Barclays in December 2019 that his statement 
showed hed been making payments of £157 per month to his mothers Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard asked him then to send this evidence, and I understand it wasnt supplied. 
Mrs Bs statements show that the last payment onto her card was made in March 2019. The 
card was still being used until April 2019. 
I think that theres now no dispute that payments werent made onto Mrs Bs credit card 
account for some months. The card was then defaulted. 
I would expect Barclays to try to contact Mrs B before it did this. Thats not just because its 
required to do this. Its in Barclays interest for Mrs B to bring her account back up to date. 
And I can see Barclays wrote to Mrs B about her account, at the address it held for her. It 
also made considerable efforts to contact Mrs B by phone and email, and it sent text 
messages, before it defaulted the account.
Mr B has told us Barclays held out of date contact details for his mother. If he gave his new 
address to a fraudster who was pretending to have called from Barclays, then that would 
explain why the address wasnt updated. But some of the details that Barclays held werent 
out of date. Mr B has confirmed that the email address Barclays held for him was his email 
address. He says he didnt get any emails. I dont know why Mr B didnt get Barclays emails, 
I think they were sent. And Mr B didnt notice that regular payments towards the Barclaycard 
debt werent being made during this time. 
Overall, I cant be sure whats gone wrong here. But I dont think that whats gone wrong is 
Barclays fault. It made considerable efforts to contact Mrs B when payments onto her card 
stopped. It then moved to default a card which hadnt been used, and had received no 
payments, for several months. I dont think Barclays has to remove that default now. I know 
Mrs B, and Mr B on her behalf, will both be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman