DRN-2610316
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
The policy was taken out in 2008 when Mr R arranged additional borrowing on a mortgage 
hed arranged in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators 
conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr Rs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr R the information he needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr R is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr R says he was put under pressure to buy the PPI and that Halifax didnt give him a 
proper choice about taking the cover. Ive noted everything Mr R has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr R and
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much information from the time the policy was sold, 
which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. But its provided its internal 
notes from around the time of the sale, which suggest that Mr R was taking the additional 
borrowing to consolidate some existing debt.
It seems Halifax also carried out a Demands and Needs assessment for Mr R, which 
identified that he had a need for the cover because he wouldve struggled to cover his 
mortgage repayments if he couldnt work.
Mr R had arranged his original mortgage in 1995, and taken out additional borrowing since 
then. So I think he wouldve understood that he didnt need to buy the PPI to get the loan 
that he wanted.
Without anything else to support what Mr R has told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr R to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mr R was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mr R says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to
sickness or accident, and that he had some savings and other investments. Mr R 
says the combination of his sick pay, savings and investments meant he could cover 
his mortgage payments and didnt have a need for the PPI.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Rs employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr R could use his employer benefits, savings and 
investments to pay for other expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful 
to him, despite his existing arrangements. 
- Mr R wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr R before he agreed to buy
it. But he took out the cover knowing he would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr R
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr R would have
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would 
still have taken out the policy.
Ive noted what Mr R has said about an unemployment claim he made on the policy in 2012 
that was turned down by Halifax. From the information Mr R has provided, it seems he took 
his retirement benefits from his employers pension scheme, shortly after hed been made 
redundant in 2011.The PPI policy terms say cover ends when the customer permanently retires. So its possible 
this was why Mr Rs unemployment claim didnt succeed.
But Halifax has also told us its records suggest the claim didnt progress because it didnt 
receive a response from Mr R to an information request.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr Rs circumstances when the policy was sold 
meant the policy was unsuitable for him. So I dont find that Halifax was wrong to 
recommend it to him.
If Mr R considers Halifax wrongly turned down his unemployment claim, he may want to 
raise this with the bank to see whether it can be looked at as a separate complaint. 
But I wont be upholding his complaint that the PPI was mis-sold in 2008.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman