DRN-3389618
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to refund payments made on 
his current account which he says he didnt make. He wants them to refund the payments.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both Mr M and Halifax, but in summary:
Mr M has been in prison since 2015. He says his ex-wife presented Halifax with a 
fraudulent power of attorney (POA) in Mr Ms name in 2016, which she registered at 
the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG). As a result, Halifax allowed her to access 
his account. Mr M says she then made payments out of his account over a number of 
years which he didnt agree to, which totalled a large sum of money.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said there wasnt 
enough information to show the POA was fraudulent. The signature for Mr M on the 
POA, which he says wasnt his, was witnessed by someone who was also a prisoner 
the same city where Mr M lived before he was sentenced. Mr M said he had moved 
from that prison to another prison when the POA was signed, but he wasnt able to 
evidence this. As a result, it wasnt reasonable to conclude Mr M didnt agree to the 
POA.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. He has said he is very worried that he will have no 
money when he is released from prison, and his wellbeing has been severely affected. He 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint has been given to me to 
decide.
When Mr M brought his complaint to our service he also said his ex-wife used his Halifax 
credit card without his agreement. I issued a separate decision about his credit card and 
decided I couldnt consider this part of his complaint. I decided he had brought this part of his 
complaint to our service too late, so it wasnt something I could look at under the rules I have 
to follow. So, I must make clear that this final decision only concerns Mr Ms current account 
and the payments made from it which he says he didnt agree to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I understand he will be very disappointed by 
this news, so Ill explain why.
When deciding a complaint, I must consider the law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and when appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. One of the main things I have considered is 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). The regulations require a bank (like 
Halifax) to generally refund payments Mr M didnt consent to. 
So, I need to decide whether Mr M consented to the payments. But I must make clear that 
consent under the PSRs doesnt mean he had to agree to each and every payment. 
Instead, I must consider whether he agreed to his ex-wife using his account. If he did allow 
his ex-wife to use his account, then under the PSRs Halifax isnt responsible for payments 
she went on to make even if Mr M didnt know about some of them.
Mr M says the POA Halifax received is fake and he didnt agree to it or sign it. Its possible 
what he is saying is true. After all, I can never really know what happened in 2016 and 
whether he was involved or not. But when facts arent clear, I need to decide what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened.
I find it more likely than not that Mr M agreed to the POA. I say this because the person who 
countersigned the POA as Mr Ms witness was also a prisoner. And its clear that person 
was staying at a prison in the same city where Mr M lived before he was sentenced. 
Mr M says he had moved to another prison when the POA was signed, and this may be true, 
but I would expect there to be a formal record of where he stayed kept by the prison service. 
He says his prison officer told him they dont have any records, but I find it unlikely records 
dont exist considering how important keeping track of the movements of persons in prison 
is. Its also clear that Mr M did at some point stay at the same prison as the person who 
countersigned the POA. He says he had moved prisons, but he didnt say he never stayed at 
the prison in question.
I understand why Mr M may have thought a POA was a good idea. Being in prison meant he 
wouldnt be able to do certain things as easily as he could if he was out of prison, such as 
manage his financial affairs. Regular income was coming into the account during this time 
and payments were also made in relation to what look like regular commitments. So, its 
possible he asked his ex-wife to act on his behalf to help him manage his affairs.
If the POA was fraudulent, its unclear why or how his ex-wife got a person who was in 
prison to sign the document. Instead, I find its more likely Mr M signed the POA and he got a 
fellow prisoner to witness it, and the document was then sent to his ex-wife who signed it a 
few days later, which was witnessed by someone she knew.
Other than the PSRs, Halifax also has a responsibility to look out for unusual behaviour on 
an account to help prevent financial harm or crime. But even if Mr M didnt want some of the 
payments to be made, I dont find the activity on the account was unusual. The account 
continued to receive regular payments and it sometimes held a healthy balance. I dont find 
Halifax ought to have thought something was wrong or that they should have questioned the 
POA as a result.
So, for the reasons I have given, I am not going to tell Halifax to refund Mr M any money. I 
am sorry to hear about how his wellbeing has been affected, and that he is worried about not 
having money when he is released form prison. But I dont find Halifax has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 Liam King
Ombudsman