DRN-2120318
The complaint
Miss U is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) turned down a claim made under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss U made an insurance claim to AXA following the theft of a designer watch and bag, 
with a combined value of about £14,000. She said that these had been stolen at a party. A 
fight had broken out at the party and the police were called. Miss U was involved in a fight, 
which she spoke to a police officer about. Miss U said the police told the guests that they 
should leave and, about this time, she realised that she didnt have her bag or watch. 
However, she wasnt certain that they had been stolen and thought they might be found by 
someone else at the party.
The next day, Miss U told the police that she had been assaulted at the party. The police 
opened a crime report and issued her with a crime reference number.
AXA investigated the theft claim and turned it down on the basis that Miss U had failed to 
prove a loss had occurred. It said that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that the items 
had been stolen at the party, as it wasnt on the original crime report. The items were only 
added to the crime report more than three months after the incident. Miss U complained to 
AXA, but it maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Miss U complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He though 
that AXA had acted reasonably by turning down the claim because there wasnt enough 
evidence to show that the items had been stolen at the party.
As Miss U did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes an insurance claim, the policyholder needs to show that an insured 
event has taken place. In Miss Us case, AXA decided that she had failed to show that a loss 
had occurred.
AXA investigated the circumstances of the claim, including getting information from the 
police. It decided that due to inconsistencies in Miss Us account of how the watch was lost 
and also because of the amount of time that Miss U took to get the watch and bag added to 
the crime report that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that a loss had taken place. 
So, Ive thought about whether I agree.
Miss U said she was involved in an assault at a party and she thinks that around this time 
the watch and bag were stolen, although not by the person who assaulted her. Miss U said 
that when the police arrived at the party, she told a police officer about the missing watch 
and bag. 
The police provided our investigator with a summary of what their records showed about 
Miss Us interaction with them. This showed that there were two investigation reports opened 
in relation to Miss U and the party, which included her allegation of assault. Neither of these 
reports included reference to the watch or bag at the time the reports were opened. 
However, just under three months later, Miss U phoned the police to say that items had been 
stolen from her when she was on the floor and had been assaulted. She also said that she 
had told the police at the scene.
A couple of weeks after that, the police updated their investigation report to say that Miss U 
believed that her watch had fallen off her wrist, but couldnt be certain. She said she hadnt 
reported it because she thought someone would find the watch and hand it in to a family 
friend. When this didnt happen, she then reported it to the police. At this point, the police 
added the watch to the investigation report and the handbag was added a few days later.
The police also provided details of the complaint it received from Miss U. The complaint 
didnt refer to the watch or the handbag or say that she had reported their loss to the police 
on the night of the party. However, as part of dealing with the complaint, Miss U told the 
police that the watch and bag had been stolen, but that these were not reported at the time 
as she didnt realise at first and then thought someone would find them and hand them in.
AXA also explained that during its investigation it told Miss U that the crime report didnt 
include the theft of these items. It then took Miss U about another three weeks to contact the 
police to ask for the items to be added to the crime report. This was nearly three months 
after the party had taken place.
Ive thought about this carefully. Miss U said that she was the victim of an assault and that 
during the same event her watch and bag were stolen. Given the circumstances that Miss U 
described, I can understand that this would have been a stressful and upsetting evening, 
including that she had to speak to the police about an assault.
Looking at what happened after the party, the next day, Miss U reported the assault to the 
police. However, police records dont show that she said anything about the watch and bag. 
She also raised a complaint about the police, but this also didnt include anything about the 
items or say that she thought she had told a police officer who attended the event that the 
items were missing. So, I dont think it is clear that Miss U raised this with the police on the 
night of the party.
When Miss U reported the watch and bag to the police, this seems to have included two 
different accounts of what had happened to the items. Police records showed that she first 
said the items were stolen while she was on the floor during the assault. A later report 
compiled by the police said that Miss U said she thought the watch had fallen off her wrist. 
Although I dont think that these accounts of what happened necessarily contradict each 
other, I can see why AXA thought that there were inconsistencies that meant it wasnt clear 
what Miss U was saying had happened to the watch and bag.
Ive also thought about the amount of time that it took Miss U to report the items to the 
police. It took nearly three months for her to ask for them to be added to the crime report. It 
also seems that she only did so after AXA explained that it wasnt on the crime report. It then 
took Miss U another three weeks to speak to the police about this. Given the value of the 
items, AXA thought that taking so long to report the loss to the police also cast doubt on the 
items being lost in this way. I can see why AXA held this view and although Miss U explained to the police that she didnt realise at first that the items had been stolen, I dont 
think this fully explains why she took nearly three months to report it to the police. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that it was reasonable for AXA to turn down Miss 
Us claim on the basis that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show the loss of the items and 
in the way described. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman