DRN-3702115
The complaint
Ms S complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) gave her poor customer service 
when she claimed under her appliance insurance policy, then unfairly declined the claim.
What happened
Ms S had appliance insurance policies with D&G. In November 2021, she claimed under one 
of her policies because her washing machine wasnt working. D&Gs engineer visited a few 
days later and thought a part was needed to repair it. 
About three weeks later, Ms S called D&G because her washing machine still wasnt working 
and shed not heard from D&G. She was transferred to another team, and Ms S explained 
that the engineer said shed hear whether or not they could get a spare part or whether 
theyd provide her with a new washing machine, and that D&G had passed her calls around 
a lot. D&G apologised that the engineer had referred Ms S back to it, but said Ms S should 
call it again at the end of the week as it would know by then whether a spare part would 
come through.
Ms S called D&G back a few days later. It couldnt initially find her details, so it transferred 
her to another team who then apologised for the unnecessary transfer. D&G said its records 
suggested Ms Ss washing machine was going to be a write-off, and logged her complaint 
about its claim handling. Ms S told D&G she had to take her washing to her daughters but 
didnt like having to do that and found it inconvenient. 
On 14 December 2021, D&G sent Ms S its final response to her complaint. It apologised and 
offered her £30 compensation for transferring her calls around its teams and not updating 
her. But D&G said it was declining her claim, because Ms Ss policy terms and conditions 
said she must make her product accessible, compliant with all relevant safety standards and 
safe to work on, as determined by D&Gs engineer. And its engineer thought it wasnt safe to 
work on and didnt meet relevant safety standards. 
Confused and unhappy, Ms S came to our Service and told us this matter left her spending 
£10 per week at the laundrette. And in January 2021, Ms S cancelled her D&G insurance 
policies because she was unhappy about how it had dealt with her claim.
When this Service contacted D&G it couldnt confirm what made its engineer feel unsafe, but 
suggested it was concerns about hygiene and clutter in Ms Ss kitchen, and provided photos 
to support this. It said it might have chosen to continue with the claim if Ms S had made 
changes to her kitchen environment and the accessibility of the washing machine. But it 
didnt expect its agents to suggest this to Ms S, and it could no longer explore this as Ms S 
chose to cancel her policy.
Our Investigator thought D&G gave Ms S poor customer service, unfairly declined the claim 
and didnt give her the opportunity to address its concerns about her kitchen. She said D&G 
should revisit the claim and communicate with Ms S about that; compensate Ms S £7 per 
week for unavoidable laundrette costs shed incurred since it declined her claim, until the 
claim is settled; and pay Ms S a further £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused by unfairly declining her claim and leaving her without a working 
washing machine, in addition to the £30 it had itself already offered. 
D&G disagreed. It said it correctly declined the claim. And Ms S had chosen to cancel her 
policy, so D&G no longer had any liability to complete the repair to her washing machine. 
Therefore, this complaint was passed to me for consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response letter, D&G accepts it caused Ms S distress and inconvenience by 
transferring her calls around its teams and not updating her. I think the £30 compensation its 
offered is fair and reasonable for this minor distress and inconvenience. 
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with, D&G told Ms S her claim would be declined 
in its final response letter dated 14 December 2021 -  it explained its engineer had reported it 
wasnt safe to work in her kitchen and it didnt meet relevant safety standards. D&G says this 
is in line with the policy term that says, You must arrange any work required to make your 
product accessible; compliant with all relevant safety standards and safe to work on (as 
determined by our engineer).
In thinking about whether D&G was fair to rely on this access and safety policy term to 
decline Ms Ss claim, Ive considered the photos and comments D&G has provided to us. Im 
satisfied Ms Ss washing machine was reasonably accessible, because the photos show it 
already pulled out a little from under the work surface and with space in front of it. 
D&G suggests issues of hygiene and clutter in Ms Ss kitchen made that working 
environment unsafe for its engineer. Based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I cant 
see any specific hazards to health - an example of this might be medical or other hazardous 
waste. Instead, the photos of the kitchen show clutter and areas that dont appear to be 
clean. So I accept the conditions in Ms Ss kitchen were less than ideal for working in. And if 
D&G was concerned that a working environment might be less than ideal for one of its 
engineers, I think its reasonable to expect D&G to provide its engineers with suitable 
protective clothing and equipment, or to politely and clearly discuss this with the consumer. 
But I cant see that D&G did either of those things here. Instead, it left Ms S without an 
update and then told her it was declining her claim without telling her why its engineer 
thought her kitchen wasnt safe to work in and didnt meet relevant safety standards, and 
without giving her the opportunity to address its concerns. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied it wasnt fair and reasonable of D&G to rely on the access 
and safety policy term to decline Ms Ss claim. Im also satisfied this would have caused 
Ms S uncertainty, confusion and frustration, and inconvenience in having to chase things up 
with D&G and wash laundry outside her home for longer than necessary. I think a further 
£100 compensation is fair and reasonable for that. 
As well as distress and inconvenience, Im satisfied D&G caused Ms S a financial loss here. 
A few days before D&G declined her claim, Ms S told it she was washing her laundry at her 
daughters but didnt like doing that and found it inconvenient. So I understand why Ms S 
wouldnt have done that for long, and she later told our Service shed been doing her laundry 
at the laundrette at a cost of £10 per week. I accept Ms Ss testimony as a reasonable explanation of her laundry arrangements and costs while her own washing machine wasnt 
working.
And I think Ms S has taken reasonable steps to mitigate this financial loss. She promptly 
pursued her complaint firstly with D&G and then with our Service. And since D&G initially 
told Ms S her claim would be settled but it could either be through repair or replacement, I 
can understand why Ms S didnt arrange one of those options herself, as a repair might not 
be sufficient and D&G might not reimburse her for a replacement. 
So D&G unfairly declining Ms Ss claim has left her without a working washing machine and 
paying £10 per week to use a laundrette. Ms S would always have incurred some costs even 
when using her own washing machine at home, for example for electricity and water. I think 
our Investigators suggested estimate of £3 per week for these unavoidable costs is fair and 
reasonable, and I note neither Ms S or D&G dispute this. Therefore, D&G should 
compensate Ms S for the remaining £7 per week, as that is her financial loss here. And it 
should compensate Ms S for this from when it unfairly declined her claim until it settles the 
claim. 
Regarding the claim itself, D&G says it no longer has any liability because Ms S has now 
cancelled the policy. But I dont agree, because the policy was in force and providing cover 
at the time Ms S claimed. And the system records and call recordings D&G have provided 
suggest that it originally accepted her claim and was simply deciding how to settle it, by 
seeing whether the necessary part was available or not so it could decide whether to repair 
the washing machine or replace it. So Im not asking D&G to deal with this as a new claim  
instead, I am saying it didnt deal fairly with Ms Ss original claim when it declined it on the 
basis of the access and safety policy term. 
Therefore, D&G should reconsider Ms Ss claim, subject to the remaining terms of her policy. 
I understand D&G may have concerns about the condition of Ms Ss kitchen. If so, Id expect 
D&G to communicate clearly with Ms S about them and work positively with her. 
Putting things right
To put things right, D&G should reconsider Ms Ss claim and working clearly and positively 
with her; pay Ms S £7 per week for unavoidable laundrette costs, since it declined her claim 
until the claim is settled; and pay Ms S a further £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused by unfairly declining her claim, in addition to the £30 its already 
offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
must:
Reconsider Ms Ss claim and work clearly and positively with her.
Pay Ms S £7 per week for unavoidable laundrette costs, since it declined her claim until 
the claim is settled.
Pay Ms S a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused by 
unfairly declining her claim, in addition to the £30 its already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman