DRN-2550925
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund all of the money she lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Background
Miss A has told us and Barclays that she experiences ongoing mental and emotional
struggles. Shes explained she suffers with post-traumatic stress disorder following a trauma
earlier in her life. Shes also explained that she has been receiving ongoing safeguarding
protection as she is considered to be an adult at risk. In early 2019, Miss A was receiving
treatment for a psychiatric disorder. In July 2019, Miss A underwent major surgery with a life
changing impact. The operation left her unable to have children of her own. Miss A explained
that after the surgery she was receiving counselling and taking strong medication. At the
time of the scam, Miss A had been off work for most of the year. Shes told us that she lives
alone and is isolated from her family. Shes explained that she did not share what she was
going through with anyone.
The scam
In early October 2019, Miss A made a connection on a dating website for people that share
her religious faith. Miss A was hoping to meet someone genuine for a relationship. Shes
said that she didnt think a scammer would use a religious website. Miss A told us she was
feeling extremely low at this time but thought a dating website might be a last shot at
having a family. She grew close to this person after being in contact every day. Initially they
exchanged messages on the website, then progressed to talking on a mobile phone
messaging app. The person she was speaking to quickly gained her trust and made her
promises of a future life together. They spoke at length, exchanging photographs and details
of their lives and aspirations for the future. The person told Miss A that hed been widowed
and had a young daughter.
Miss A thought they had become engaged as they spoke of marriage and of Miss A
becoming a mother to his daughter when he returned from working abroad. Miss A has
explained that she desperately wanted to be a mother and saw this relationship as a chance
in her life that she never thought she would get. Sadly, Miss A was actually speaking with a
scammer.
On 29 October 2019 the scammer contacted Miss A and told her there had been an incident
at his work and that he needed to pay £10,000 compensation for causing the accident or risk
being in trouble with the authorities. The scammer told Miss A that a friend was able to lend
some of the money, but he was still £4,500 short.
The scammer asked Miss A if she could lend him the remainder. He told Miss A hed use the
money to sort the problem out and then immediately fly home to meet her. Initially Miss A
explained that she couldnt help as she had no money saved and was living on a reduced
income. But the scammer sent Miss A messages pleading for her help and convinced her
that the childs welfare was at risk.
The scammer told Miss A the money would only be a loan and that hed pay her back as
soon as he was in the UK. He told her the quickest way to sort things out was for her to
transfer the money directly to his colleague based in the UK.
On 6 November 2019, Miss A took a cash advance of £5,000 from her credit card and paid
the money into her current account. Miss A explains that she had never borrowed any
money before but she did so because she wanted him to be safe and home. She then used
her online banking to send £4,500 to the account details the scammer gave her, with the
remainder reducing her overdrawn balance.
Miss A explains that she discovered she had been the victim of a cruel scam the next day.
She received further messages from the scammer asking for more money which
contradicted what had been said before. As something did not feel right, she contacted the
bank. She told Barclays about her health and her financial worries.
Barclays looked into what had happened but was unable to recover any of the money Miss A
sent. It also considered whether it ought to refund Miss A for her loss. Barclays is a signatory
to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the Code) and so considered its
obligations under it.
Barclays wrote to Miss A on 23 December 2019. It said it wouldnt be able to refund her as
she didnt take steps to satisfy herself the person she was paying was legitimate. Miss A
complained. She explained that she believed this person to be who they said they were and
the colleague whose account the money was transferred to had also confirmed the
situation. Despite realising the scammer had no interest in having a relationship with her,
Miss A told the bank she still wanted to contact this person because she was concerned
about the welfare of the child.
On 12 February 2020 Barclays issued its final response letter. It said it was unable to refund
Miss A because it presented warnings to her when she set up a new payee via Online
Banking.
The bank says Miss A selected the payment purpose of Friends and Family  How well do
you know the person you want to pay? and would have been presented with the following
message:
Weve found that payment requests through social media and dating sites, and claims of a
family crisis or emergency, can often be fraudulent. Its best to speak to someone you trust
first.
Barclays considers this should have prompted Miss A to reconsider making the payment.
It suggested that Miss A should protect herself in the future by gaining clarity on the person
she is transferring funds to, such as by meeting them in person to be confident they are
trustworthy. It recognised that it had taken too long to respond to Miss As concerns and
offered her £250 compensation.Miss A was unhappy with the banks response and contacted us. She explained that she did
believe this person to be who they said they were. Miss A explained that the scammers
emotional manipulation has left her traumatised. She told us that shes finding it difficult to
come to terms with what happened and is in regular contact with Victim Support. Shes
explained that it feels hard for me to go through this again, and how duped I was and how
desperate I was for someone to care for me. Such a tragedy. That people use the name of
God and really pushed [sic] and intimidated me into giving them money to help them out of a
lie. Even though my own situation was/is dire.
In July 2020, our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Barclays had shown that
any of the exceptions under the Code applied in this situation. He wasnt persuaded Miss A
had ignored an effective warning. He didnt think the information Barclays said Miss A would
have seen at the time she made the payment would have felt relevant to her. He felt Miss A
had got a reasonable basis for believing the payment was making was genuine and didnt
think shed been grossly negligent. He also felt a payment of £4,500 to a new payee was
unusual and out of character for Miss A. He was surprised that Barclays hadnt probed it
further at the time.
Barclays then offered a 50% refund. It agreed that the payment was out of character and
further checks should have been made. But it felt the warning it provided at the time was
effective and should have prompted Miss A to reconsider making the payment.
Miss A didnt wish to accept Barclays offer and our investigators position remained
unchanged. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me.
In closing, Barclays said:
We believe that the warning provided, which mentions dating sites and crisis/emergency,
should have alerted Miss A into realising this was a scam. We therefore feel the warning
should have been effective.
As part of my investigation into this matter, I contacted Miss As credit card provider, which is
part of the same bank but operates under a different trading name. The credit card arm of
the bank replied to me and confirmed it had written off the cash advance Miss A had made,
along with its associated fee. It provided copies of Miss As credit card statements to show it
recredited the £5,000 to the card on 26 March 2020, which wiped off the debt. The credit
card statements show no interest had been applied to the cash advance.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
18 January 2021. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Miss A was the victim of a scam.
She made the payment herself using her online banking. So, although she did not intend the
money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms
and conditions of her account, Ms A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM
Code), which Barclays has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam, like Miss A. The circumstances where a firm may choose
not to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet
their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
R2(1) of the Code says:
A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish any of the
following matters in (a) to (e). The assessment of whether these matters can be
established should involve consideration of whether they would have had a material
effect on preventing the APP scam that took place.
(a) The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with
SF1(2), by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning
given in any of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee;
(ii) when amending an existing payee, and/ or
(iii) immediately before making the payment
(c) In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics
of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
(e) The Customer has been grossly negligent. For the avoidance of doubt the
provisions of R2(1)(a)-(d) should not be taken to define gross negligence in this
context
Subsections (b) and (d) have not been included as they were not relevant to this
complaint.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether
they would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam. The Code itself
doesnt set out specific examples of a customer failing to meet their requisite level of
care. Its for businesses to consider each case on its own facts.
The Code also requires firms to assess whether a customer is vulnerable to the APP
scam they fell victim to.
It says:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP
scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
This should be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
In these circumstances, the Customer should be reimbursed notwithstanding the
provisions in R2(1), and whether or not the Firm had previously identified the Customer
as vulnerable.
Factors to consider include:
(a) All Customers can be vulnerable to APP scams and vulnerability is dynamic. The
reasons for dynamics of vulnerability may include: the personal circumstances of
the Customer; the timing and nature of the APP scam itself; the capacity the Customer had 
to protect themselves; and the impact of the APP scam on that Customer
(b) A Customers personal circumstances which lead to vulnerability are varied, maybe 
temporary or permanent, and may vary in severity over time
(c) APP scams may include long-running APP scams or in the moment APP scams.
(d) The capacity of a Customer to protect themselves includes their knowledge,
skills and capability in engaging with financial services and systems, and the
effectiveness of tolls made available to them by Firms.
(e) The impact of the APP scam includes the extent to which the Customer is
disproportionality affected by the APP scam, both financially and non-financially.
Barclays agrees that the payment Miss A made was unusual or out of character and offered
to refund half of the money she sent. But it feels Miss A should bear some responsibility for
the other half of the payment as it considers she ignored an effective warning.
As the CRM Code was in place at the time Miss A made the payment, I have thought
about how it applies in the circumstances of the payment Miss A made and, in
particular, whether Barclays ought to fully reimburse her under the provisions of the Code.As Barclays has not argued that Miss A made the payment without a reasonable basis for
belief or that she was grossly negligent, I am not minded to consider these points any further
in this particular case.
Barclays feels the warning she would have seen at the time she made the payment was
relevant to her situation. It thinks the warning should have prompted her to think about how
well she knew the person she was about to pay. Barclays has highlighted that the warning
explicitly references dating sites and that claims of emergency and crisis can be fraudulent.
Whilst I acknowledge what Barclays has outlined, I dont think I need to explore whether its
warning was impactful or whether it was fair to expect it to positively effect customer decision
making in order to fairly decide this case.
As I have outlined earlier in this provisional decision, the Code says vulnerability should be
considered on a case by case basis. The Code outlines some factors for firms such as
Barclays to consider. Whilst I consider the factors to be indicators of potential vulnerability
and a non-exhaustive list, it is readily apparent from what Miss A has described of her
personal circumstances at this time that she was a vulnerable adult and perhaps, as such,
vulnerable to some APP scams too. I do not think it would be reasonable for Barclays to
have expected Miss A to be able to protect herself from this particular scam, especially given
its timing and nature.
From the information Miss A has provided to both us and the bank, its clear that she was
experiencing a particularly difficult time in her personal life when she fell victim to the scam.
Shed had serious health struggles across the year and was trying to come to terms with
difficult news. Shed not been well enough to work, so her income had reduced, making
things tight for her financially. She was taking strong medication and dealing with things on
her own, without any support from family or friends. Shes told us that she was feeling
extremely low at the time she joined the dating website, but optimistic that it might have been
a last shot at having a family of her own.
Miss A was deceived into a false relationship by the scammer. They gained her trust by
communicating for an extended period of time. They alluded to being in a similar situation
and wanting the same things. I think Miss A was particularly susceptible to detriment at this
time.
She was significantly less able to represent her own interests and I think this is something
the scammer picked up on and exploited. Miss A has shared the messages she exchanged
with the scammer with us. This cant have been an easy thing for her to do due to the
personal and sensitive information they contain but its clear that the scammer has behaved
in a way that is incredibly cruel and has exploited Miss As concern over the welfare of a
child. Her state of mind, coupled with her desire to have a family of her own means that this
particular romance scam struck a chord with Miss A. I dont consider Miss A was in a
position to protect herself. I consider Miss As situation to have left her with a low ability to
withstand financial and emotional shocks.
The impact of this scam both financially and non-financially has been far reaching for Miss A.
It created a debt as she borrowed the money from her credit card to send to the scammer.
She has been left emotionally devastated by the betrayal in her trust. For the reasons I have
already explained, I do not think it would be reasonable to have expected Miss A to protect
herself from becoming the victim of this particular romance scam in her circumstances. As a
result, I am minded to find Miss A was vulnerable to this particular APP scam and I think
Barclays should have identified that when it considered her claim under the Code.Ive also thought about whether Barclays missed an opportunity to intervene at the time
Miss A made the payment, potentially preventing her from experiencing financial harm.
When offering to refund half of the money, Barclays broadly accepted it should have
identified an out of character payment and made further enquiries into it. The payment was
unusual and uncharacteristic for Miss A and the account. Given that the money was going to
a new payee and utilised all of the credit balance on the account, I think it would have been
fair and reasonable for Barclays to have intervened to find out more about the circumstances
around the payment Miss A was making.
Ive noted Barclays comments about the warnings Miss A was presented with. But for the
reasons I have explained elsewhere in this decision, I dont think Miss A was able to heed
and respond to a written warning. The combination of Miss As individual circumstances and
the nature of the scam itself means it would not be reasonable to expect Miss A to have
protected herself. I consider she would have been unable to protect herself from falling
victim to this particular scam without a substantial intervention from a third party  which I
dont consider this written warning was.
Im also minded to think that had the bank acted in this way, it would have been quickly
apparent Miss A was at risk of financial harm, which would have more likely than not
prevented the payment from being made. If the bank had done more, such as asking Miss A
for details of who she was paying, I think Miss A wouldve said that she was sending money
to a person she was romantically involved with. Barclays would have seen that money was
from a recent incoming credit. If Barclays had asked questions, I consider it more likely than
not the situation would have unravelled and the bank staff, with more experience of what
scams like this look and feel like, would have realised something was wrong before it was
too late. I say this because Miss A has been open in her conversations with both this service
and the bank and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the scammer gave Miss A any kind
of cover story to tell the bank. This finding that Barclays could have prevented the scam if it
had intervened does not alter my consideration of Miss As circumstances under the Code,
but it is relevant because it could impact the date from which Barclays ought to pay Miss A
interest.
Redress
It is clear from my analysis of the complaint so far that I consider Barclays has treated
Miss A unfairly because it missed the opportunity to either prevent the scam, or to lessen the
impact of this particular scam when it became aware of Miss As circumstances. When that
happens, an ombudsman has the power to put a consumer back in the position they would
have been in if the bank hadnt got things wrong.
To help me work out how much Miss A had been financially impacted as a result of this
scam, we asked Miss A if she had been able to repay any of the debt as I was mindful that
an outstanding balance on a credit card could attract interest. Miss A told us that her credit
card provider had written off the debt. She said she wanted to continue the complaint
because more should have been done at the time to protect her.
This is new information that our investigator did not know when he considered the matter.
But it would not now be fair and reasonable for me to say that Barclays needs to refund the
money Miss A transferred to the scammer in full. That would place Miss A in a better position
than she was in before.
Miss A took a £5,000 cash advance on her credit card. It had a £120 fee. She had no other
balance on the card at the time. The credit card provider has shown the cash advance was
at a 0% interest promotional rate.Of the £5,000 Miss A borrowed, £4,500 was sent to the scammer and the remaining £500
was used to pay down her overdraft. That seems to have been a conscious decision by
Miss A as the scammer had asked her for £4,500.
The steps the credit card arm of the bank has already taken mean Miss A has not incurred a
financial loss by sending the funds to the scammer. Ive thought about whether Miss A
should be refunded for the payments she made towards her credit card between December
2019 and March 2020. Im mindful that the payments she made towards the credit card in
between the cash advance and the credit card provider writing it off were only required
because she took that cash advance out. But the £500 that went towards reducing her
overdraft is more than the payments she made towards the credit card during this time. Im
also mindful that Miss A would have needed to repay the overdraft at some point too.
So I think writing off the cash advance in full balances out the payments Miss A made
towards the credit card during this time.
Overall, I think the steps that have already been taken are fair and reasonable to rectify the
financial loss Miss A incurred as a result of the scam, so I am not currently minded to think it
would be appropriate to require Barclays to pay anything further towards this element of the
complaint.
Although Miss As financial losses have been mitigated, its clear that Barclays actions have
affected Miss A practically and emotionally. So I have also thought about whether she
should be awarded compensation for the distress and inconvenience the bank has caused.
Barclays offered Miss A £250 compensation in its final response letter because it took too
long to respond to her concerns. But this doesnt fully address the impact of Barclays
actions on her. I am persuaded that Barclays treatment of Miss As claim had a significant
and detrimental effect on her well-being. Miss A was vulnerable and the impact on her was
greater than it might have been on others in similar circumstances. I have outlined in detail
earlier in this provisional decision the situation Miss A was in at the time of the scam. I have
already indicated that I think Miss A had a low ability to withstand financial and emotional
shocks.
Even if Barclays did not know the extent of Miss As health and personal issues at the time
of the scam, it was well aware at the time that it considered her claim under the Code. She
was receiving support from the banks vulnerable customer team. Its clear the situation was
causing Miss A a significant amount of distress at an already difficult time. Against this
backdrop, it is especially disappointing to see from the banks internal notes that its
complaints team did not consider Miss A to be vulnerable under the Code, even though its
front line staff did. The outcome of Miss As claim under the Code has caused her
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and this was exacerbated by the issues she was
struggling with in her personal life. As such, I think it would be fair and reasonable for
Barclays to pay Miss A a total of £750 compensation overall.
So subject to any further representations from Miss A or Barclays, I was minded to uphold 
the complaint. 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. It said it had not paid the £250 it had previously 
offered Miss A. 
Miss A was disappointed and wanted the matter to be reconsidered. In summary, she 
explained the details in my provisional decision were very hard for her to go through. She 
described the legacy of the scam and its ongoing effects in the 15 months since it happened, 
explaining that the compensation awarded did not recognise or value the emotional trauma and stress she had faced and would continue to face. She outlined that the compensation 
I was minded to award would not cover the costs she had incurred during this time. She 
explained that shed paid for counselling services and had not been well enough to return to 
her normal life. 
She explained it was difficult to accept that Barclays knew the identities of the criminals and 
nothing had been done about it. Miss A described feeling angry and disappointed that £750 
was deemed appropriate to compensate her, even though Barclays had breached the Code 
and failed to protect her. She pointed out that the bank had already accepted that fault and 
offered to refund half, even though it had done its duty in clearing the debt. She explained 
that she would continue to fight the dating agency and push for prosecution. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision and 
for much the same reasons.  
Ive considered all the particular circumstances of this case in reaching my final decision. 
What happened to Miss A was awful. A fraudster deliberately deceived and manipulated her 
emotions purely for financial gain. Shes had a lot to deal with, including ongoing counselling 
and living on a reduced income, all whilst she begins to try to come to terms with what 
happened to her. The emotional and practical burden of this scam is a heavy one for her to 
bear. 
In this situation, its not easy to address the emotional and practical impact specifically of 
Barclays mistakes in financial terms. I am mindful that a lot of the distress Miss A has 
described will have stemmed directly from the criminal acts of the fraudster. The loss and a 
great deal of her emotional upset was ultimately caused by the callous actions of a fraudster. 
I sympathise with Miss A when she describes seeking justice and a desire for the fraudster 
to be held to account. 
But my role is limited to looking at Barclays involvement in the matter. Ive not seen anything 
that makes me think Barclays would not co-operate with the authorities should any criminal 
proceedings take place in the future. 
I have already decided Barclays did not treat Miss A fairly. She is a vulnerable adult and 
I still think the bank should have recognised this and accepted her claim under the Code 
sooner than it did. If it had done so, it could have reduced some of the stress that came with 
losing this money. But Im not a regulator, and Im not able to make an increased award 
intended to punish the bank specifically for not complying with the CRM Code.
Miss A pointed out that Barclays had already offered to refund half of the money shed sent 
in response to our investigators view. She points out the bank make this offer after the debt 
had already been cleared. But the money Barclays previously offered was not compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience that it had caused Miss A. It was intended as an offer to 
compensate Miss A for her financial losses. Barclays understanding of the position at the 
time it made that offer was different. Im not able to fairly say that Barclays should continue 
to honour that offer now it knows that Miss As financial losses have already been 
addressed.  It remains clear to me that the impact of Barclays actions is greater than a minor 
inconvenience or upset. They will have had a negative impact on Miss A at a time when she 
was already hit very hard. But looking at everything that happened, I still think £750 is fair 
and reasonable compensation to recognise the impact Barclays actions had. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
require it to pay Miss A £750 for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman