DRN-2373844
The complaint
Mr F complains that BUPA Insurance Limited mis-sold him a medical insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2017, Mr F took out a medical insurance policy with BUPA. His certificate shows 
that the policy was underwritten, which means that Mr F gave BUPA information about his 
health and medical history. A special condition of Mr Fs policy was that BUPA wouldnt pay 
for any treatment for, resulting from, or related to, anxiety or acid reflux.
Its common ground that when Mr F first took out the policy, he asked BUPA about cover 
for oesophageal cancer and BUPA told him that if he stayed on his medication for acid 
reflux, it would pay for treatment for oesophageal cancer. BUPA says that was incorrect 
and that it should have told Mr F that it would assess benefits on a case by case basis and 
would ask for a medical report before deciding whether it would cover the treatment.
Mr F renewed his policy with BUPA in 2018 and 2019. In January 2020, Mr F contacted 
BUPA about cancelling his policy. During that call, Mr F said that hed seen his renewal 
documents and noticed that the policy probably wouldnt cover him for oesophageal 
cancer. Mr F cancelled the policy in January 2020.
Mr F complains that when he took out the policy in January 2017, BUPA told him that it 
would cover oesophageal cancer relating to acid reflux provided that he continued to take 
his medication. Mr F says that the policy was mis-sold to him as he wanted a policy that 
had good cover for cancer. He wants a refund of either all his premiums or two years 
premiums.
In response to Mr Fs complaint, BUPA paid Mr F compensation of £50 in relation to the 
incorrect information. Mr F didnt think that was enough.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that BUPAs apology 
and compensation of £50 was fair. The investigator said that Mr F had the benefit of the 
policy, so she didnt recommend that BUPA refund the premium. The investigator said that 
whilst BUPA gave Mr F incorrect information it made Mr F reasonably aware in the 
documentation that treatment for conditions linked to acid reflux would be excluded from 
cover.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that whilst the documentation showed the 
true position, he took out and continued with the policy based on what he was told in the 
phone call at the outset. Mr F asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, so it was
passed to me.
My provisional decision
On 19 October 2020, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said:
Bupa didnt give Mr F advice about the suitability of the policy for his needs: it gave him 
information about the policy so that he could make an informed choice. BUPA was obliged to 
give Mr F clear and fair information that wasnt misleading. BUPA acknowledges that it made 
a mistake in Mr Fs case in responding to his query about cover for a potential future claim 
for treatment for oesophageal cancer. The remaining issue for me to decide is how BUPA 
should put matters right.
A fair resolution of Mr Fs complaint doesnt require BUPA to refund the premiums. Thats 
because Mr F had the benefit of the cover for three years. I appreciate that Mr F says that 
he didnt make any claims against the policy in that period, but the fact remains that he 
could have done so, as cover was in place. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy if hed known the true position at the outset.
I dont think that BUPAs error caused Mr F any loss, but it did cause him distress and 
inconvenience. He discovered that the cover he had specifically enquired about wasnt in 
fact in place. And I dont think its fair to say that Mr F could have worked out the true 
position from the documentation: I think its reasonable for Mr F to rely on BUPAs 
response to a specific enquiry he made at the outset.
I dont think BUPAs payment of compensation of £50 is sufficient in this case. I dont think 
that level of award reflects Mr Fs distress. This wasnt a mere administrative error. Mr F 
asked a specific question about a potential future claim for a condition he was worried 
about and received incorrect information. BUPA is the expert here and wed expect it to get 
this right. I think it should pay Mr F additional compensation of £100, bringing the total
compensation to £150.
Neither Mr F nor BUPA responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither Mr F nor BUPA have provided me with anything further on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint.  
Putting things right
To put things right, BUPA should pay Mr F additional compensation of £100 in relation to his 
distress and inconvenience, bringing the total compensation to £150.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. I 
now require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Mr F additional compensation of £100 in relation 
to his distress and inconvenience, bringing the total to £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman