DRN-3788976
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr S complaint is about Covea Insurance plcs ongoing handling of two claims
made under their home insurance policy.
Unless otherwise stated, all references to Covea include its appointed agents.
Mrs D and Mr S complaint has been brought by Mr S, so for ease of reading Ill usually refer 
to him directly.
What happened
Around August 2020, there was a flood to the ground floor of Mrs D and Mr S property. They
moved to alternative accommodation and a surveyor (P) was appointed to oversee the
repairs. P was introduced to Mrs D and Mr S by Coveas loss adjuster.
Around December 2020, a new boiler was fitted by a heating engineer (R)  subcontracted
by P. There followed a significant escape of oil to the property and surrounding grounds.
Covea accepted a second claim under Mrs D and Mr S policy for the escape of oil. An
initial report of the consequential damage suggested the reserve for the repairs to be in the
region of £250,000  £300,000.
Mr S is unhappy with Coveas handling of both claims and complained to our service.
Mr S says in summary:
Covea has a greater responsibility for the contractor and sub-contractors actions
than it is admitting.
The sub-contractors selected to do the work were based on previous relationships
with P. And given the short timeframes of work to be carried out they had little choice
but to accept them and move on.
The contractors employed by Covea to reinstate the property have shown multiple
examples of not being fit for purpose, with bad quality workmanship, poor surveyor
management, and secondary damage (separate to the escape of oil) caused.
Coveas loss adjuster and P were clearly trying to limit the costs and repair work
involved. This included a lack of testing of the kitchen units for contamination
following the flood (which were later found to be contaminated).
The loss adjuster and P failed to act on their concerns about the smell of fuel in the
property for over 4 weeks, until an external oil slick alerted them to the escape of oil.
Theyve not had any updates on Coveas attempts to pursue a recovery of the repair
costs associated with the escape of oil.
Their policy premium has gone up by 68% annually and its clear therell be a long-
lasting impact to premiums based on the two claims.
Theyve been out of home for close to two years.
Coveas management of both claims has been poor throughout, with delays, lack of
communication and progress.
Theyve been unable to secure a new mortgage deal as a result of the delays,
subsequent escape of oil and current condition of the property. And theyll be unable
to look for a new deal until the property is habitable.
Mr S also provided a timeline of events spanning the first notification of the flood 
event in August 2020, up to early January 2022.
To put things right, Mr S wants financial compensation for how their claims have 
been handled, and for the stress and inconvenience caused throughout by having to 
take such a direct involvement in progressing matters.
Covea says in summary: 
R was appointed by P who it had introduced to Mrs D and Mr S to manage the
repairs. So, R is therefore Mrs D and Mr S contractor and Covea isnt responsible for
the poor workmanship that caused the escape of oil.
The complaint was referred to our service and on 22 September 2022 I issued my 
provisional findings to the complaint. Ive repeated an extract below:
Covea didnt provide a final response to Mrs D and Mr S, so our service has said to both
parties that all matters up to 31 December 2021 will be considered. And any concerns (such
as Coveas refusal to reinstruct a surveyor at Mr S request) which fall after this date will be
considered as a separate matter.
Ill first look at what I see as the main crux of Mrs D and Mr S argument; that Covea has a
greater responsibility for the actions of the contractor P and subcontractor R than it is
admitting.
In doing so, Ive considered three questions:
-Did Covea appoint P or R as its agent, (by which our service considers Covea
responsible for P and Rs actions), and is it therefore liable for any problems with the
repair work?
-Did Covea agree to reinstate Mrs D and Mr S property under the terms of the
policy, and is therefore required to take responsibility for the failure of the repairs to
be effective and lasting?
-Did Covea adequately explain to Mrs D and Mr S that it was not reinstating their
property, but instead only paying for the cost of the reinstatement? And did it
therefore provide Mrs D and Mr S with reasonable guidance to help them make a
claim?
Were P and/or R Coveas agents?
Ive considered the General Conditions of Offer for the Appointment of Professional
Services (the contract) which was drawn up to cover the repairs to Mrs D and Mr S
property. The contract is signed by Mrs D and Mr S, (referred to as The Client), and P
(referred to as The Consultant). Covea isnt a signatory to the contract.
As far as I can see, neither P nor R are directly employed by Covea. And although P is
acknowledged in other correspondence as one of Coveas panel contractors, both are
ultimately independent contractors. So, any responsibility Covea has for the work carried out
by either P or R would instead need to be set out in the terms of the contract.The contract states, Where additional consultants or specialists are required then they will
be directly appointed by the Client. However, if so instructed by the Client, the Consultant
will act as the Clients agent (disclosing the Client as principal) in the appointment of such
Consultants or Specialists after receiving the Clients prior approval.
And:
Where additional consultants or specialists are appointed either directly or by the consultant
as the Clients agents, then the Consultant will co-ordinate and integrate the work of the
other consultants or specialists, if so requested by the Client, but the Consultant will not
accept any responsibility whatsoever for the performance of their duties.
I cant see anything within the contract that shows the appointment of P, or later R as agents
of Covea, or to show Covea had agreed to be responsible for their actions. Instead, the
contract is between Mrs D and Mr S, and P. And what appears to have happened is that P
appointed R on Mrs D and Mr S behalf by acting in its capacity as their agent within the
terms of the contract.
Therefore, it isnt possible for me to conclude Covea were directly responsible for any of P or
Rs errors in their capacity as its agents. However, there remain two further areas for me to
consider below.
Did Covea agree to reinstate Mrs D and Mr S property under the terms of the policy?
The terms of Mrs D and Mr S policy under the Basis of claims settlement explain Coveas
options and state:
We will
at our option either:
-reinstate or replace the damaged buildings or any damaged part of the
buildings; or
-pay the cost of any necessary repair or replacement work.
Our services general approach is that if an insurer has chosen to reinstate the damage
claimed for, then it must ensure that the repair is effective and lasting. And this means the
damage must be fully put right, and for an appropriate amount of time.
In the circumstances of this case, the answer to the question of whether Covea agreed to
reinstate Mrs D and Mr S property isnt clear cut. But simply put, Covea should have made it
clear to Mrs D and Mr S which of the two options above it was choosing.
If I were to consider the terms of the contract alone, then this would suggest Mrs D and Mr S
agreed to undertake the full reinstatement of the property themselves. But there are aspects
of this claim which lean more towards Covea choosing to reinstate the property, rather than
simply paying the costs of the repair work. I say this for the following reasons:Coveas loss adjuster was heavily involved in the claim, both in signing off/approving
Ps costs and agreeing the scope of works required. And this lends weight to the
argument that Covea was controlling the claim. In other words, nothing could
proceed without being run past Coveas loss adjuster first, which suggests Mrs D and
Mr S didnt have the autonomy to make decisions on the repairs.
Theres clear evidence of the costs being negotiated throughout the claim. And of the
most competitive, or cost effective tenders being chosen during the repair contract.
The correspondence between P and Coveas loss adjuster suggests that cost
was the predominant reason to choose certain contractors.
The fact that Covea introduced P to Mrs D and Mr S, either intentionally or not,
meant it influenced the choice of who ultimately did the repairs.
Therefore, I think the evidence shows that Mrs D and Mr S most likely believed that Covea,
through its actions, had chosen to reinstate their property. And this would support some of
the later actions they later took, such as complaining directly to Covea about the delays and
poor workmanship of the contractors.
However, even if Im wrong on this point, and Covea can show it clearly chose not to
reinstate Mrs D and Mr S property, there remains a further consideration here.
Did Covea provide Mrs D and Mr S with reasonable guidance to help them make a claim?
If an insurer chooses to simply pay the cost of any necessary repair, our service expects to
see that the consumer has been given clear information about their responsibilities should
things go wrong.
In addition, there are relevant rules which apply here; the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA)s Principles for Business (PRIN), specifically PRIN 2.1.1 state:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customer and treat them fairly.
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customer and
between a customer and another client.
And the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS), specifically ICOBS
8.1 states:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress
In applying these rules to the circumstances of this complaint, I would expect Covea to have
made it clear to Mrs D and Mr S:
Who exactly was responsible for reinstating the property; Covea, or Mrs D and Mr S?
If Mrs D and Mr S were responsible, what this would mean for them in terms of
choosing a repairer, the signing of any building contracts and project managing the
repairs.So, from the outset, theres a concern here around Covea introducing P to Mrs D and Mr S:
P was one of Coveas panel firm of repairers. So, its possible that Covea knew that
in recommending P, it wouldnt be responsible for the repairs due to the terms of the
contract.
Covea had existing commercial arrangements with P and as such may have
benefited from lower prices, without considering the aspects of the reinstatement
which were important to Mrs D and Mr S.
Ive considered Mrs D and Mr S testimony to decide if Covea met the rules Ive set out. Ive
included some extracts below:
Covea instructing companies with poor quality and standard of service and we are left to
deal with the ramifications of all this. It doesnt feel correct or fair when they have an equal
responsibility
I allowed Covea to assign their own specialists
I was advised [company] were the most cost effective tender result and this was the
reason to go with them but as soon as work started with them it was clear the quality control
and workmanship of [company] were extremely poor...I had to travel 10 miles each way each
day unnecessarily and be interrupted throughout the day to keep an eye on what work was
happening
Signing a document such as this [the contract], has to be in the context of us wanting to
move on with the repairs ASAP given we had moved out of our house and wanted progress
to be made and the history shows our disapproval of what was happening and updated
Covea on these points
Covea has a responsibility to push for a recovery of these costs but it already approaching
1yr since the event and Ive not had any further updates following an initial call with a legal
company they had instructed.
When I was notified of the contractor [R] that had been appointed I had not heard of them
and there was very little information online to confirm if they were a reputable company and
examples of work carried out in the past. But given the short timeframes of work to be
carried out it was clear I had little choice to accept and move on.
Coveaput me under charge of these people and I directly complained to Covea about
them
I find Mrs D and Mr S testimony persuasive. And it therefore follows that I dont think Covea
provided reasonable guidance to Mrs D and Mr S in this claim. The above testimony doesnt
persuade me that Mrs D and Mr S were familiar with their responsibilities under the contract,
nor were given the opportunity to mitigate the circumstances of the repair following the
introduction of P to the claim.
Instead, theres an argument to be made that Covea as the insurer sought the best of both
worlds; settling the flood claim on the most favourable and cost-effective terms, without any
direct liability for anything that went wrong with the repairs.Whilst this in itself doesnt breach any of the relevant law and regulations, if Covea wished to
proceed on this basis, it did have a duty under PRIN and ICOBS above to make it clear to
Mrs D and Mr S that this was how it was going to proceed to settle the claim. And having
carefully considered the correspondence between all parties at the beginning of the flood
claim, Im not persuaded it did so.
Had Mrs D and Mr S been fully informed in line with Coveas duties, I find it more likely than
not that they wouldve acted differently. I say this because:
If Mrs D and Mr S knew Covea wasnt directly liable, or answerable for P or Rs
actions, then they wouldnt have spent so much time and effort complaining to Covea
directly during the claim.
If Mrs D and Mr S were so unhappy with the performance of either P or R and knew
they couldve removed them from the job and replaced them with another contractor,
then its likely they wouldve done so in order to protect their future liability.
In line with their testimony, its probable that Mrs D and Mr S wouldve chosen
different contractors, based on criteria that was more important to them, such as
experience and reputation, rather than just the cost of the repair.
Ill now consider what I intend to require Covea to do to put things right.
Compensation
In addition to not providing Mrs D and Mr S with reasonable guidance to help them progress
the claim, I also need to consider the impact of any avoidable delays, distress and
inconvenience caused by Covea or its appointed agents.
As Ive already determined that P and R werent Coveas agents, I cannot find Covea
responsible for any of their actions, such as poor workmanship or failing to attend the
property on agreed dates. Nor any compensation that may have been considered as a
result.
However, I can consider the actions of Coveas loss adjuster, and Coveas overall handling
of the claim, including the impact of the lack of information provided to Mrs D and Mr S.
Ive considered that Mrs D and Mr S are joint policyholders who have both been separately
impacted by the events of the claim. And Ive concluded that its more likely than not they
wouldve acted differently had they been provided with reasonable guidance on how Covea
chose to settle the claim. So, it follows that the consequences of this lack of information have
been severe.
Mrs D and Mr S have said about how the escape of oil hasnt just affected their property, but
also the wider community by contaminating a local village pond. Third parties such as
neighbouring properties and the local parish council have been involved in raising concerns
and complaints. This has caused Mrs D and Mr S inconvenience and upset to deal with;
theres clear evidence of a strain on local relationships, and of disputes between the parish
council and environmental agency. In essence, Mrs D and Mr S personal information and
that of their property is being shared outside of the claim through no fault of their own.
The period of the claim Im considering is around 16 months. And for that time Mrs D and
Mr S were out of home. And are likely to be for some time until the escape of oil is resolved.
They had difficulty in sourcing appropriate alternative accommodation (AA), and the
evidence shows they were required to source and negotiate the tenancy for the AA
themselves. Ive also seen emails which show Covea was late with some AA payments.
Mrs D and Mr S say theyve had to step in numerous times to pay for rent on their AA asCoveas payments were sometimes weeks or months late. This wouldve undoubtedly added
further distress to the situation Mrs D and Mr S found themselves in.
Once the repairs started, Mr S has explained he travelled to the property to keep an eye on
repairs as he was concerned about the standard of work. And at this time the property was
without central heating as the previous boiler had been condemned.
Mr S says that further secondary damage (separate to the escape of oil) has occurred to the
property, such as a significant leak when a radiator valve was left undone.
Mrs D and Mr S have provided further testimony over the flood repairs. Theyve said they
had to push for further tests to be carried out in areas such as the kitchen, and once those
tests were carried out, it showed the kitchen units were contaminated from the flood and
would need to be condemned.
Overall, its clear Mrs D and Mr S were engaged with the claim and repairs to a much greater
extent than would reasonably be expected for a claim which was being managed by a
surveyor and loss adjuster.
There also appears to be a general discord regarding the communication between the
parties. Mr S has shown he raised concerns about the smell of fuel in the property around 17
February 2021 to both P and the loss adjuster. But on 23 February 2021 the present position
as set out by the loss adjuster states, The building reinstatement work is entering the final
phase and we are working with the Insured in the formulation of the losses linked to the
contents claim.
Theres no mention of any concerns raised by Mr S about the reinstatement works or the
smell of fuel. And the subsequent events show the escape of oil wasnt discovered until 21
March 2021 by Mr S neighbour. It appears that P and the loss adjuster hadnt yet engaged
an engineer to investigate Mr S concerns. And this means the escape of oil occurred for a
further month, adding to the significant secondary damage to the property.
In conclusion, I find Covea needs to compensate both Mrs D and Mr S for the severe
distress and inconvenience caused by its actions and omissions. And I conclude a payment
of £15,000 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The escape of oil claim
Covea has accepted the escape of oil event as a second claim on Mrs D and Mr S policy.
But I dont find this produces a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Firstly, its arguable that Covea, through its actions, made a commitment to 
reinstate Mrs D and Mr S property following the initial flood event. And therefore, as those 
repairs werent effective or lasting, its subsequently responsible for remedying the failed 
repair.
Secondly, Coveas lack of information to Mrs D and Mr S breached its duty under ICOBS
and meant they couldnt make an informed decision on how best to proceed with the claim.
The consequences of this will stretch beyond the reinstatement works and most likely impact
Mrs D and Mr S future insurance premiums for some years.
As a result, I find that having a second claim recorded against Mrs D and Mr S would
disproportionately and unfairly increase the already severe consequences to them from the
escape of oil. So, I intend to require Covea to deal with the remainder of the claim as a result
of the failed flood repair, as opposed to recording a second, separate claim.Next steps
I acknowledge Mr S has raised a number of questions about the ongoing claim in a recent
email to our service. This includes whether he can claim losses on mortgage interest, or a
payment for the damage to the garden. Our service isnt set up to act in a claims handling
capacity so I wont be able to say what the policy may or may not cover here. I suggest Mr S
raises these queries with Covea in the first instance (if he hasnt done so already) and if he
feels any further aspects of the claim have been unfairly turned down, then our service will
consider these issues as a separate matter.
Therefore, I said I intended to uphold Mr S complaint and direct Covea to pay Mrs D and   
Mr S £15,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. And for Covea to 
deal with the escape of oil repairs as a result of the failed repair of the flood claim, rather 
than recording the matter as a second, separate claim.
Developments
Mr S responded to my decision and said in summary:
He doesnt have any issues with the repair works that were completed around March 
2022. The main issue is that Covea has yet to recommence internal repairs to the 
property and no progress has been made.
oTherefore, he wanted the ongoing issues with the claim delays to be 
considered within the scope of my decision. And he said Covea hasnt 
reached out to him directly since June 2021.
He is stuck with a property that isnt fully repaired and in an increasingly difficult 
situation with regards to rising mortgage costs.
Hes raised concerns about the claim progression with Coveas loss adjuster but had 
no response.
Covea also responded and said:
It acknowledged that it hadnt issued Mr S with a final response or provided our 
service with a summary of matters from its perspective.
Accordingly, Covea wished to challenge a number of conclusions reached in my 
provisional decision and provided further evidence for me to consider.
Covea said Mr S complained directly around March 2021. It said this was the first 
and only notification of any issues with the claim raised directly. And it said it wasnt 
documented or reported that complaint issues were raised with either the loss 
adjuster or P.
It had no relationship or commercial arrangement with the contractor who carried out 
the repairs. Rather, the tender was cost effective taking into account the start date 
and duration of works which in turn impacted costs such as AA. Covea said it had 
never utilised a contractor network panel.
It disagreed that it hadnt adequately communicated to Mr S that he was in control of 
the reinstatement process and referred me to further comments from P and the 
contract signed between Mrs D, Mr S and P.
It wasnt clear how events could be considered under one claim in the circumstances, 
it considered the initial flood and escape of oil seven months later as separate 
events, with separate associated costs.
It wasnt clear what I had considered to have failed as part of the flood repair and 
asked for clarification.It hadnt refused a second surveyor to review the repairs, but rather had advised     
Mr S that it wouldnt fund a second surveyor as it had already appointed one, and 
that Mr S was entitled to appoint his own surveyor at his own expense.
The amount of compensation I proposed was inequitable and disproportionate in the 
circumstances. Covea asked I reconsider this in light of the evidence provided, and 
the fact that it remained committed to restoring Mrs D and Mr S property to its pre- 
loss condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided me with points which fall outside the scope of my provisional 
decision. This includes, but isnt limited to, the present position of the claim, matters which 
have happened after 31 December 2021, and concerns around ongoing mortgage costs.
The rules which govern our service say that I can only consider complaints that have 
previously been made to the business concerned, unless the business consents to us 
looking into things before its had the chance to resolve the complaint itself.
Therefore, I must be clear on what time period is covered in my final decision, particularly in 
the case of an ongoing insurance claim where the situation progresses day by day. Ive 
already set out in my provisional findings that matters up to 31 December 2021 would be 
considered in this decision and I see no reason to depart from this.
Im aware that Mr S isnt happy with Coveas handling of the claim after this date, and 
therefore he should make a further complaint to Covea about any alleged errors or delays 
after 31 December 2021. And if he isnt satisfied with Coveas response, he can refer the 
complaint to our service.
For the same reasons, I havent considered any evidence Covea provided which concerns 
events after 31 December 2021. However, its clear Covea has spent some time in arranging 
and providing its response to my provisional findings. So, I want to reassure it that Ive spent 
some time considering and reviewing everything thats been provided.
In the circumstances where the evidence contradicts, as some of it does here, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, and decided what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
In making my final decision, Im not going to respond to each and every point thats been 
raised in response to my provisional findings. Instead, Ill focus on the ones I consider to be 
most relevant to Mr S original complaint below.
Mr S initial complaint
The evidence Ive seen shows that in addition to contacting Covea directly around March 
2021, Mr S raised his concerns with the loss adjuster appointed to deal with the escape of 
oil. And further, he raised his concerns with legal representatives around July 2021. The 
representative (who was also advising Covea on any potential recovery action) then emailed 
a detailed summary directly to Covea to investigate saying We will leave it to you to 
determine what steps, if any, should be taken by Covea and/or the loss adjuster in light of 
the above.Im satisfied that any of these events shouldve been sufficient to put Covea on notice that 
there was a clear sign of dissatisfaction that needed investigating. And our Service also gave 
Covea a further opportunity to respond to Mr S concerns before I provisionally decided the 
matter.
Therefore, Im persuaded Covea was well sighted on the issues Mr S raised and had ample 
opportunity to investigate and respond to them at the time. That it didnt has only added and 
likely compounded Mr S overall frustration and sense of delay with the claims.
Whilst complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity covered by our service, Im satisfied 
I can consider the impact of Coveas failure to respond to Mr S concerns here as part of the 
service it provided in administering the insurance policy. And this consideration forms part of 
my overall compensation award in this complaint.
The appointment of surveyor P and subsequent sub-contractors such as R
From the evidence Ive seen, theres no dispute that P is part of a panel of surveyors that 
Covea uses regularly. Or that P was introduced to Mr S following a meeting with the loss 
adjuster. 
Having reviewed all of Coveas comments on this point, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. And I think the concerns I raised in my 
provisional findings remain valid in the circumstances; namely that Covea does have an 
existing relationship with P and may have benefitted from recommending them as a 
surveyor. 
As I said in my provisional findings, this in and of itself doesnt breach any relevant laws or 
regulations, but Covea did have a duty to make this information clear to Mrs D and Mr S, 
which Ive reconsidered next. 
Coveas communication regarding the reinstatement process
This issue to me, is the crux of the complaint. And simply put, the heart of the matter is the 
confusion over who is responsible for the reinstatement of Mrs D and Mr S property.
Coveas position is that Mr S knew what was agreed at the start of the works, and that he 
was in control of the reinstatement process. Its provided commentary from the loss adjuster 
and P to support this. But Covea hasnt provided any new evidence about what was actually 
discussed and agreed between the parties at the time.
P has commented that a great deal of time was spent discussing the JCT contract and the 
roles of all parties. If this was the case, then Id expect to see some evidence of this 
discussion between the parties in order to change my mind about what Ive seen. 
Instead, what Ive seen has reinforced my opinion that the party responsible for reinstating 
the property remained unclear:
Mr S says Covea as the insurer is ultimately responsible for reinstating the property. 
Coveas loss adjuster says, We are of the view the project management of the 
reinstatement works and the addressing of any contractor/workmanship issues would 
fall to the surveyor [P] as contracts administrator.
P says, looking at the testimony the Insured seems to believe they had taken on the 
role of supervision of parties, when they were in fact the employer, and contract 
administration and supervision of the project sat with ourselves. Based on the above statements, every party seems to be passing responsibility to the other. 
But the only relationship that really matters in this complaint is Coveas responsibility to 
reinstate or replace the damaged buildings under the terms of the insurance policy, and 
its obligation to make it clear to Mr S of any discharge of that responsibility under PRIN and 
ICOBS. 
After further careful consideration of the evidence, I remain unpersuaded that Covea clearly 
communicated the responsibilities of each party here. 
In any event, at this late stage in the complaint, its still not clear to me whether Covea has 
agreed to reinstate Mrs D and Mr S property or whether it discharged the reinstatement 
liability to them via the contract. And on that basis, I cannot reasonably conclude that it was 
made clear to Mrs D or Mr S at the time either.
Therefore, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision, which is 
that the evidence doesnt persuade me that Mrs D and Mr S were familiar with their 
responsibilities under the contract, nor were given the opportunity to mitigate the 
circumstances of the repair following the introduction of P to the claim.
 
Delays in AA payments
Covea says AA funding was provided in advance of due payment for 22 months from August 
2020  well past the period under the review of this complaint. And Coveas loss adjuster 
states In summary, it appears there was a seamless response to the AA element.
Ive considered this new evidence, but Im not persuaded its sufficient to overcome the 
emails Ive seen which show Mr S chased for AA payments at the start of the flood claim. 
In addition, the evidence from the escape of oil loss adjuster does show some minor delay in 
providing an AA payment to Mr S. It acknowledges this by saying I consider this payment 
could/should have been agreed and requested sooner than 5 May 21 but the overall delay is 
about 1-2 weeks max.
Whilst the delays each time may have only amounted to a few days or weeks, I consider this 
an additional impact above what Mrs D and Mr S wouldve already experienced with a 
significant claim of this nature.
Therefore, this issue remains a consideration as part of my overall compensation award for 
this complaint.
Recording of claim and potential impact to insurance premiums
Covea has provided assurances that the escape of oil wont have an impact on Mrs D and 
Mr S future home insurance premiums. This is in the form of evidence from its underwriter, 
whos shown how the claim costs directly impact the premium. And having done so, the 
underwriter has concluded that Mrs D and Mr S havent been penalised for making two 
claims as opposed to one claim for the flood and subsequent escape of oil.
I do find this persuasive for any premiums due to Covea, so I will remove my direction to 
have both events dealt with under the same claim.Should Mrs D and Mr S have further concerns over either the cost of future premiums, or 
their ability to shop around, and it can be shown that having the claims recorded separately 
is the root cause of the problem, that matter would need to be considered as a separate 
issue outside of this decision. And I would fairly and reasonably expect Covea in that 
circumstance to compensate Mr D and Mrs D for any actual losses incurred.
In response to Coveas query regarding what I consider to be the cause of the failed flood 
repair, Ill clarify that Im not linking this to any one issue. Instead, it was a reference to 
Coveas obligation to reinstate the property under the insurance policy. And until its done so 
in an effective and lasting way, the original repair cannot be said to have succeeded. 
Compensation
Overall, I find it concerning that Covea hasnt grasped the crux of the issues I set out above, 
which comes down to giving Mrs D and Mr S reasonable guidance to make their claim. And 
from the correspondence it sent to our service its clear that Covea genuinely doesnt think 
its done anything wrong here in how the claims been handled.
However, theres sufficient inconsistency in the evidence provided to give me doubts over 
Coveas recollection of events as set out. This includes dealing with Mr S initial complaint, 
the AA payments, and the overall timeline of events leading up to the escape of oil. 
Im also not persuaded that on a balance of probabilities, the events leading up to Mrs D and      
Mr S signing the contract could, in any circumstance, produce a fair and reasonable 
outcome against the terms and conditions of their policy. Unless Covea made it explicitly 
clear it wasnt liable for further damages linked to the reinstatement of Mrs D and Mr S 
property.
Ive concluded on balance Mrs D and Mr S werent given this information. And that they 
wouldve most likely acted differently had Covea provided clear information. So, I find the 
impact to them has been severe, as set out in my provisional findings.
Mr S has explained the impact this claim has had on their lives. And it is evident that when 
considered together, these two events would be incredibly trying for any person to deal with. 
And I certainly dont wish to make light of this in my decision.
The award I made in my provisional decision is in the highest band of awards we make at 
this service. And this is because I consider the impact of Coveas actions in both the way it 
handled the claim, and in failing to provide Mrs D and Mr S with reasonable guidance to 
have caused them significant distress and inconvenience. So, whilst I dont agree that Covea 
can be held responsible for the actions of P, or any of its sub-contractors it appointed, I find 
the parts of the claim it was responsible for were unclear and couldve been handled better.
Having considered everything again, Im satisfied that an award of £15,000 compensation is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I therefore uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mrs D 
and Mr S a total of £15,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman