DRN-3051972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain Covea Insurance plc have declined their buildings insurance claim.
All references to Covea also include its agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr and Mrs F had an extension built at their property in 1988
In 2009 cracks appeared in the extension and Mr and Mrs F made a claim on their
policy. Covea accepted the claim and repairs were completed
Mr and Mrs F said the original cracks opened again in 2019. They contacted Covea,
who attended their property to complete a survey, which included digging a trial pit.
At this time, Mr and Mrs F also provided original construction drawings for the
extension to Covea to assist it with the claim
Covea said the construction drawings provided by Mr and Mrs F showed the
foundations were meant to extend to a depth of at least 3m but investigations
showed depths of only 1m and 1.3m in the two trial pits it dug
Covea said if the foundations were built at the depth shown in the drawings the
damage would not have occurred. Covea declined the claim as it said faulty design
or workmanship was excluded from cover
Mr and Mrs F complained to Covea. In its final response, Coveas said its decision to
decline the claim remained the same. Mr and Mrs F then brought their complaint to
our service
Our Investigator said the findings of Coveas investigation showed the extension wasnt
constructed as set out in the original drawings. She didnt recommend we uphold Mr and
Mrs Fs complaint.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators view. Mr and Mrs F said the original 
construction drawings say the proposed depth was subject to local authority approval, and 
approval was only given after the building inspector had inspected the foundations.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 31 August 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have made several detailed points. I want to assure them Ive considered all of
them but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my
role in it.
Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs claim. Ill explain why.
The policy doesnt cover any loss or damage arising from defective design, defective
materials or faulty workmanship.
Covea said the foundations of the extension were insufficient and have pointed to original
construction drawings provided by Mr and Mrs F showing the proposed foundation depth
prior to construction. I can see these do differ from the depth shown in the trial pits dug by
Covea.
While I can understand Coveas concern the depths differed, and there is no certain answer
to why the extension wasnt built to the same depth as in the original plans, I also need to
consider whether it met building regulations at the time.
Covea have quoted regulations but havent pointed out specifically where the design fails to
meet them. I can also see the extension was signed off at the time by the local authority.
Mr and Mrs F have provided written confirmation from the local authority that confirms the
work was carried out within building regulations. Mr and Mrs F have also provided a copy of
the plans being approved by the local authority in 1988 and a receipt from the local authority
for an inspection carried out in 1989  around the time the extension was completed.
So Im persuaded the local authority inspected the property after the extension was
completed and approved it as being carried out within building regulations.
I also consider the extension stood for around 20 years without any issues. I think its more
likely than not, if there were issues with the foundations, they would have presented
themselves sooner. So, because of this and considering what Ive set out above, Im not
persuaded the foundations are defective  and so I dont believe Covea were fair to apply
the exclusion.
Putting things right
I intend to direct Covea to deal with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of
the policy. If Covea decide to cash settle any aspect of the claim, it should also add 8%
simple interest per annum to any settlement, from the date of loss until the day the it is
finalised.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs F responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.
Covea didnt agree with my provisional findings and provided further comments for me to 
consider including:
It said the sign off for works from Building Control hadnt been provided
It said building regulation fees were usually paid in advance of work so believed the 
receipt was from a payment made before construction
Mr and Mrs F hadnt provided anything to show the amendments from the approved 
design drawings has been agreed with Building ControlI will now reconsider all available information in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Covea has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
Ive also furnished Covea with all the documents mentioned below.
The plans provided by Mr and Mrs F include two stamps, one from the local authoritys 
department of planning and development from June 1988, and one from Building Control 
dated August 1988.  Mr and Mrs F also provided a letter from the local authority dated June 
1988 approving the plans. 
The receipt, again provided by the local authority, for inspection work is dated 31 March 
1989  over six months later. So, while it is unclear why the depths changed from the 
original plans, based on what Ive seen, I think its likely inspections had taken place after the 
plans were signed off.
Completion certificates were not commonplace at the time, but Mr and Mrs F have provided 
written confirmation from the local authority that building works were carried out in 
accordance with building regulations.
 
So, based on everything Ive seen and for the reasoning set out in my provisional decision, 
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Fs extension failed to meet Building Regulations at the time 
as suggested by Covea. And, I think Covea declined Mr and Mrs Fs claim unreasonably, 
Putting things right
Covea should deal with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of
the policy. If Covea decide to cash settle any aspect of the claim, it should also add 8%
simple interest per annum to any settlement, from the date of loss until the day the it is
finalised. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Covea Insurance Plc to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman