DRN-3903395
The complaint
Miss O has complained about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC handled things after 
she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2022, Miss O was contacted by a scammer who impersonated a course provider 
shed shown interest in. They had a fake website set up, and offered Miss O a discount on 
her course. Miss O signed up and paid them about £990 using her Barclays debit card.
The real course provider informed Miss O of the scam. Miss O reported this to Barclays.
Barclays raised a chargeback on Miss Os behalf. The other bank defended the chargeback. 
So Barclays asked Miss O if she wanted to continue, explaining the chargeback would close 
if they didnt hear back. They sent this communication by post and by uploading it on 
Miss Os online banking. They didnt hear back, so the chargeback was closed.
Miss O complained. She explained she hadnt got the letter.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Barclays had done what wed expect, and that the letter was sent to the 
correct address and uploaded for Miss O to view online. So while they sympathised with 
Miss O, they couldnt hold Barclays responsible for what happened.
Miss O didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand Miss O was the victim of a crime here, and so she has my sympathy. Im 
grateful to her for being open with us about what happened.
I should explain that it was primarily the fraudsters fault that all this happened. But in this 
case I can only consider what Barclays did  rather than the fraudster  and theres only so 
much that Barclays were responsible for in particular.
Its not in dispute that Miss O made the payment herself. So although she didnt intend the 
money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations she is presumed to be 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
There are situations where I might have expected Barclays to flag or block a payment, and 
Ive thought about whether they should have done so here. But this payment was made by 
their genuine customer, using the genuine card details  and banks are generally expected 
to process payments their customers make. And I dont think the payment was unusual 
enough to be stopped  for example, it was only one payment rather than multiple, it didnt 
empty the account, and it wasnt such a large amount that Id expect it to be flagged. 
Ive then thought about whether Barclays should have done more to try to recover Miss Os 
money once she told them about the scam. There are methods for trying to recover funds 
lost to scams, but they generally only apply to payments between UK financial businesses  
and Miss Os payment went to an overseas bank. They also generally only apply to certain 
types of payments, like bank transfers  but they dont apply to card payments. And Miss O 
made this payment by debit card. So Barclays were limited in what they could do to help.
Barclays raised a chargeback for Miss O, and I think that was the most appropriate way to 
try to get her money back. The chargeback process is voluntary, so Barclays didnt have to 
raise one  but its generally good practice to try one, so I think its right that they did.
When a bank does a chargeback, they have to follow the rules and timescales set by the 
card scheme  in this case, Visa. Here, Barclays followed the right process. When the other 
bank defended the chargeback, Barclays wrote to Miss O to check whether she was happy 
with the response or whether she wanted to continue  and thats what they were supposed 
to do. Under Visas rules, if Miss O didnt reply within a certain time, then the chargeback 
had to end. So when Barclays didnt hear back, the chargeback ended, and the temporary 
refund got re-debited. And Im afraid the timescales couldnt be extended, nor could the 
chargeback be reopened afterwards.
Miss O said she didnt get the letter, and she pointed out that Barclays also had her email 
address and phone number. I completely understand where Miss O is coming from. But 
Barclays sent the letter to the right address  the same one Miss O gave us  and they also 
uploaded it for her to read on her online banking. They werent required to get in touch by 
other methods as well.
So while I do sympathise with Miss Os position, I dont think I can fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for the loss shes suffered here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman