The complaint
Mrs O complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd declined a critical illness claim she made on her 
term assurance policy for her daughter.
What happened
In 2013 Mrs O set up a term assurance policy with Zurich which provides critical illness 
cover. The policy also provides cover for Mrs Os children from when they turn three months 
old. 
Mrs Os daughter, J, was born in November 2017 with a port wine stain (birthmark) on her 
face. J underwent investigation for Sturge-Weber Syndrome when she was about 3 months 
old but the MRI scan was inconclusive.
J was admitted to hospital in September 2019. During her stay she suffered from seizures 
and was intubated. She was diagnosed with Sturge-Weber Syndrome at this time. 
Mrs O submitted a claim under her term assurance policy for Js condition. Zurich declined 
the claim as they considered Js condition to be pre-existing and so, under the terms of the 
policy, wasnt covered. 
Mrs O complained to Zurich about their decision to decline the claim as well as the service 
and delays shed experienced. Zurich didnt change their position in respect of the claim. 
They explained that while J had only recently become unwell, shed had Sturge-Weber 
Syndrome since birth and this led to the seizure that resulted in her induced coma. And so, 
as this condition pre-dated the start of the cover, they were unable to pay the claim. Zurich 
did however apologise for the delays and service issues Mrs O experienced. In recognition 
of this they arranged for £215 to be paid in to her bank account - £15 for telephone costs 
and £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think Zurich had to do anything more. He explained that because the medical evidence 
suggests J was suffering from the condition before she was three months old, which is when 
the cover starts for children, he thought Zurich had acted in line with the terms of the policy. 
And that, while he acknowledged how difficult a time it must have been for Mrs O, the £215 
offered by Zurich for the trouble and upset it caused by the delays and services issues was 
in line with what hed expect in the circumstances.
Mrs O disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1953940reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say that I dont underestimate how difficult a time this must have been for 
Mrs O. Im aware how strongly she feels about whats happened and that she feels the 
human element to her claim, and complaint, has been missed. I want to reassure Mrs O that 
Ive thought very carefully about what shes said when deciding her complaint. But what I 
must consider here is whether Zurich has acted fairly when considering the claim and in line 
with the terms of the policy. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs O but, having 
done so, I think they have and Ill explain why.
Term assurance policies, like Mrs Os, provide protection in the event of an insured event 
happening but they dont cover every eventuality. The policy terms, under the childrens 
critical illness benefit section, say:
Childrens critical illness benefit applies from the date each child turns three months 
and lasts until they reach age 18, as long as the plan is in force.

When we wont pay the childrens critical illness benefit
We wont pay a childrens critical illness benefit claim if:

The claim is for a medical condition from which the child was already suffering from 
before the start of the cover (whether or not there were any symptoms)
 
In short, the above means that any conditions J had prior to three months of age  whether 
she had any symptoms or not  arent covered. Ive therefore considered whether this 
applies here.
I think at this point it would be helpful for me to explain that its not for me to determine when 
J started suffering from Sturge-Weber Syndrome. But rather, Im considering whether Zurich 
has applied the terms of the policy fairly and Ive taken in to account the medical evidence 
that was available to them when doing so.
J was born with a port wine stain on her face and at about three months old, she was tested 
for Sturge-Weber Syndrome. The tests were inconclusive. But the medical evidence 
available says that Sturge-Weber Syndrome cannot be ruled out by an MRI scan in the first 
few months. And that, while there were no symptoms until September 2019, Sturge-Weber 
Syndrome is a condition that is present from birth.  
I understand Mrs O says that up until the symptoms manifested, she wasnt given any 
medical advice to suggest that J had the condition  which is very rare  as it was only 
considered as a birth mark up to this point. While I accept Mrs O may not have had any 
reason to believe J had Sturge-Weber Syndrome, particularly as the initial tests proved 
inconclusive, I dont think this means the condition wasnt present at birth. But rather the 
symptoms from the condition, which led to J unfortunately being placed in to a coma and 
suffering from seizures, simply didnt present themselves until she was nearly two years old.
As the medical evidence suggests J had the condition from birth (and therefore before she 
was three months old), it follows that  under the terms of the policy  it isnt covered. I therefore dont think Zurich has unfairly declined the claim or that theyve acted outside the 
policy terms.
Im aware that during the claim process Mrs O experienced poor service from Zurich. This 
includes having to contact them on a number of occasions for an update, not receiving calls 
back as agreed and delays. Zurich accept they couldve handled things better and paid Mrs 
O £215 for this. I appreciate this doesnt change what happened, nor does it alter the 
outcome of the claim. But I think £215 is a reasonable amount to reflect the service issues 
Mrs O experienced. So, Im not going to increase this further.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs O is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Zurich has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman