DRN-3711736
The complaint
Mr B complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) accepted liability and paid a claim 
to a third party, after he specifically told West Bay that no incident had occurred. Mr B says 
this has had an impact on his renewal premiums and as a taxi driver it has had a detrimental 
effect on him mentally and financially. 
What happened
Mr B called West Bay, his commercial motor insurer to notify it of an incident. He said that a 
vehicle had braked suddenly in front of him then accused him of colliding with the rear of it. 
But Mr B said there was no impact and he was calling to warn West Bay that it could 
potentially receive a claim. He advised that he had camera footage from two dash cameras if 
required. 
When Mr B received his renewal some months later, he noticed a substantial premium 
increase. When he questioned this, he was advised that West Bay had paid out on a third-
party claim. Mr B was very unhappy, so he complained.
West Bay reviewed the situation, and it advised that it had recorded the incident incorrectly. 
West Bay apologised and proceeded to get a vehicle inspection in place. It advised that its 
solicitors were now looking into the issue, and it awarded Mr B £100 in compensation for the 
poor service it had provided.
However, Mr B says the situation had snowballed out of control since West Bays error, and 
that £100 didnt reflect the impact West Bays error has had on him mentally and financially. 
So, he brought the complaint to our service.
An investigator reviewed this complaint and suggested that West Bay treat this claim as non-
fault and increase Mr Bs compensation to £250. West Bay didnt agree. It said liability was 
still in dispute, and it hadnt done anything wrong by recording the incident as fault. It also 
said £100 was fair compensation for the poor service provided. 
So, we reviewed the complaint again. This time an investigator agreed with West Bay and 
thought it had done enough. 
However, Mr B was unhappy with this so he asked for an ombudsman to provide a final 
decision. 
In an effort to resolve this case it was reviewed again, and a further outcome was suggested. 
Our investigator said on review that we couldnt comment on liability, given the ongoing 
dispute. But the investigator said that Mr B had suffered significant inconvenience and 
disruption because of the errors West Bay made. The investigator suggested £500 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered. 
Mr B replied but didnt accept or reject our investigators recommendation. West Bay hasnt 
responded despite numerous reminders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
In the absence of any further evidence or responses Im inclined to agree with our 
investigators view of 1 September 2022.
Ive listened to the call Mr B made to West Bay to notify the incident and I agree, 
West Bay recorded what Mr B said incorrectly.
I acknowledge that West Bay has now recognised this and reopened the case. 
However, liability continues to be in dispute, so I wont be commenting on this.
I find the fact that West Bay never requested nor reviewed the footage very 
frustrating as the policy, written by West Bay specifically includes an Approved 
Camera term.
This is also particularly frustrating as Mr B actually offered the footage. Any 
comments made without seeing the footage are speculation. 
I also think that comments made by West Bay following a review of the engineers 
report are speculative and not reflective of what the report actually says. 
I agree with what the investigator said. Following the alleged incident Mr B did everything 
right. He contacted West Bay immediately. He gave his version of events. He said he had a 
witness and he gave their details to West Bay. He advised West Bay that he had two 
dashcams with footage available. 
I also agree that West Bay incorrectly noted what had happened. It then sent a letter 
containing incorrect information to Mr B. It then dealt with the claim incorrectly as a fault, it 
recorded incorrect details about Mr B on an external database and it broke its own policy 
terms and conditions by not requesting the available dashcam footage, footage which 
couldve determined either way who was at fault and what had happened. It initially didnt 
inspect either vehicle nor can I see if it ever contacted the witness. 
Due to the ongoing court case I cant ask West Bay to take Mr Bs name off the claims 
underwriting exchange (CUE) or change the recorded version of events on CUE. But I do 
think further compensation for distress and inconvenience is due. West Bays actions and 
errors have caused Mr B a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. Further to 
this, West Bays lack of investigation means Mr B has been prejudiced. And alongside the 
errors it has made this means the issue is being drawn out through the courts, causing 
further distress. 
The impact of West Bays error is more than what someone would expect to experience in 
everyday life, and it may have far reaching consequences. It is a significant inconvenience 
and disruption thats taking a lot of extra effort to sort out. I appreciate West Bay is now 
doing the right thing. But £100 is not enough to compensate for what happened nor does it 
compensate for the additional premiums Mr B is now paying and could possibly continue to 
pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to:Pay £500 in compensation (less £100 already paid) for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B has suffered for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman