DRN-4036388
The complaint
Mr D complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) collected incorrect 
premiums for his car insurance policy, and then asked him to pay in full when he wanted to 
change his car.
 
What happened
Mr D entered a credit agreement with Hastings in March 2022, to pay his car insurance 
premiums on a monthly basis. 
Mr D added an additional driver to the policy shortly after, and this resulted in an incorrect 
payment request being made by Hastings. Mr D then changed the car insured by the policy 
and Hastings set out a new payment schedule for Mr D, but these payments werent 
collected correctly either. 
Mr D complained to Hastings in June 2022 about the problems with his direct debit 
payments. Hastings sent Mr D their final response to his complaint in June 2022. They said 
there had been a system error which meant the wrong payment amounts had been 
requested. They told Mr D theyd fixed this, arranged a refund for over payments Mr D had 
made, and set out his new payment schedule. 
Hastings sent Mr D a second response to his complaint in July 2022. They said they couldnt 
fix the direct debit error, and so theyd written off £449.53 of his premiums and his remaining 
eight months of payments would be under £10 each. Hastings said they wouldnt ask for this 
sum to be repaid to reflect the inconvenience caused to Mr D. 
Mr D wanted to change the car under the policy in around July 2022. Hastings told him that 
because of the system error, they couldnt amend his direct debit amounts, and so he 
wouldnt be able to change his vehicle and continue to pay his premiums monthly with use of 
the credit agreement. They said he could either pay his new premium in full, or they could 
manually take a payment each month for the correct amount. 
Unhappy with Hastings response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. 
Our investigator provided his view that Hastings had made errors in collecting the payments 
from Mr D, but he couldnt ask Hastings to change their processes, and so couldnt ask them 
to fix the direct debit error. He Mr D had the option of insuring a new car with a different 
provider, and he thought that the £449.53 written off the policy was fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said he didnt think Hastings had done enough to put things right. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D entered into an agreement with Hastings to pay his insurance premiums on a monthly 
basis. This is a regulated credit agreement, which means we can consider complaints about 
it. 
It not in dispute that there were errors made in collecting Mr Ds payments. Hastings have 
said that there has been an error with their direct debit file, and they cant amend this. This 
has meant that Mr D has been charged incorrect amounts, hes had to use his overdraft to 
make some payments and he is unable to amend any details on his car insurance policy, 
including changing his vehicle, without either paying any increased premium in full, or setting 
up manual monthly payments. 
Mr D has expressed that he doesnt want to use manual payments as he wont have an 
accurate record of his payment schedule or the correct information under his policy. 
I appreciate that Mr D doesnt want to use the manual option provided to him. However, this 
service cant make Hastings change its processes, so I cant direct them to fix Mr Ds direct 
debit payments moving forward. 
Hastings have accepted that theyve provided poor service to Mr D, so Ive considered 
whether theyve done enough to put things right. 
The errors in collecting Mr Ds payments led to distress and inconvenience for Mr D. Hes 
had to contact Hastings on a number of occasions to try and resolve the issue and is unable 
to amend his policy in ways that would usually be available to him. Whilst Mr D could insure 
his car with another provider, this is additional inconvenience when his insurance for the 
year shouldve been in place already and paid for by way of the credit agreement. 
Hastings said they were able to make a correction to Mr Ds payments, but this meant that a 
total of £449.53 was written off of the cost of Mr Ds policy. Hastings said that rather than 
keep trying to amend the direct debits they wouldnt ask Mr D to repay the amount written off 
in recognition of the inconvenience caused. So, Mr D will pay £449.53 less for his insurance 
cover than was originally agreed.
Mr D says Hastings only took this action because they couldnt fix the error, not because 
they were attempting to compensate him. 
I appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling on the matter, and that hes been put to significant 
inconvenience because of the error. But Im satisfied that the £449.53 that Hastings have 
reduced the premium by fairly compensates Mr D for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, and so Im not asking them to do anything further. 
Mr D has recently told this service that his no claims certificate is incorrect, and Hastings 
have refused to offer him insurance at all. He may wish to raise this with Hastings for them to 
investigate. If he remains unhappy with their response, he may be able to ask this service to 
investigate.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman