DRN-4212949
The complaint
Miss Vs complaint is about the handling of a claim under a mobile phone insurance policy 
with American International Group UK Limited (AIG).
What happened
Miss V made a claim under the policy as her screen needed to be repaired. She was offered 
the option to attend a store to have the screen repaired but they could not do the repair as 
they didnt have the correct parts. Miss V was told the phone would need to be sent to AIGs 
repairers. AIG arranged a doorstep exchange, where a courier collected the insured phone 
from Miss V and delivered her a replacement phone. 
Miss V says she did not realise this was the process and says she thought her phone would 
be repaired and returned to her. She says she did not therefore back up all her information 
on her phone, as she thought it would be returned to her. As a result, Miss V says she has 
lost photographs and other data, which has caused her a great deal of emotional upset. 
A few days after receiving the replacement, Miss V also told AIG that the battery was 
draining more quickly than it should. AIG arranged another replacement. However, Miss V is 
not happy with the second replacement, as she says this is also faulty. Miss V is also not 
happy that she has been receiving messages on her phone that there are original brand 
parts in the phone. Miss V talked to AIG about this. AIG told her that it would need to assess 
the phone but as she was out of the country at the time, they could not arrange for this to be 
done until she returned to the UK. AIG provided Miss V with a number to call when she 
returned but she says she decided she couldnt go through the stress of another 
replacement.  
AIG says it advised Miss V during a phone conversation before the phone was collected 
from her that she should back up the phone. AIG said the repairer should have been able to 
do the repair as she had made an appointment in advance so it should have had the correct 
parts. AIG accepted that this caused some delay and AIG also accepted that Miss V was not 
properly informed of the exchange process. AIG offered £65 compensation for this.
With regard to the replacement phone, AIG said these are remanufactured and will have 
non-branded parts but are all checked carefully before being sent out and are of high quality. 
AIG also told us that there is usually an excess payable of £29 for screen repair only, £49 for 
repair and £99 for a replacement phone. It waived the excess that would normally be 
charged for a replacement phone.
Miss V remains unhappy with AIGs response and the compensation is not enough to reflect 
the trouble and upset caused to her. She says AIG did not have permission to keep her 
phone. Miss V says that compensation of around £1,000 would be more appropriate.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He recommend that the compensation be 
increased to £100, as mor in line with the outcomes of other similar cases. 
Miss V does not accept the Investigators assessment. She says her phone, with original 
branded parts was stripped but she received one with non-original parts. Miss V said the 
minimum compensation shed accept is £350. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim process, communication and lost data
AIG has agreed that the store should have been able to repair the phone when Miss V 
attended. Its notes say there was some internal damage as well but it says it was  
irreparable because of lack of correct parts. 
AIG arranged for Miss Vs phone to be exchanged but it also accepts that it did not clearly 
explain to Miss V what the process would be and that she would not get her phone back. 
It has an obligation to provide clear and fair information to its customers including during the 
claims process. In the context of this case, I think that means it should have explained to 
Miss V that her phone was being exchanged and se would not get it back. 
I have to now consider what impact the failure to explain this properly had on Miss V.
I think it is likely Miss V would have agreed to the replacement of the phone, if she had 
correctly been told AIG could not repair the phone. There was some internal damage as well 
as damage to the screen. However, Miss V says she lost important data because she didnt 
back up the phone fully, as she thought it was going to be returned to her. 
AIG says Miss V would have received an email telling her how to prepare her device for 
repair, including back up all of the data you want to keep, such as photos, music, videos 
and other files. Miss V disputes she received any advice until she phoned to make 
enquiries. The call took place before the phone was collected and Miss V was asking what 
she needed to do to prepare the phone and when shed get the phone back. 
I have listened to that call between Miss V and AIG. Miss V was told that she should unlock 
the phone and remove and back-up as much as possible from it. She was not told that she 
would not get the phone back; instead AIGs adviser is also under the impression it is to be 
repaired and returned to her. I accept that Miss V might well have backed up her phone 
properly if she had known it was not going to be returned. However, even though she should 
have been told the phone would not be sent back to her, as she was advised to back-up the 
phone, I cannot reasonably conclude that the failure to do so was entirely AIGs fault. 
Quality of replacement phone 
As with most (if not all) mobile phone insurance policies, this one provides that any 
replacement phone may be provided from remanufactured stock, which may contain non-
original or unbranded parts. This is not inherently unreasonable, as it is a like-for-like 
insurance policy, rather than new-for-old. So AIG was entitled to send a remanufactured handset and any remanufactured ones come with a warranty as well. However, any such 
replacement should not be faulty. 
AIG replaced the phone once and offered to assess the second replacement. I think its 
response to this was reasonable and do not think it needs to do anything more in this regard. 
I also note that Miss V has explained that the fault with the second replacement phone was 
that the screen was brown but this has stopped. 
Compensation 
Miss V was caused some unnecessary inconvenience and upset, by the handling of this 
matter. There was a lack of clear communication and she did have to have a second 
replacement phone. But, for the reasons given above I do not think it is responsible for the 
loss of data. 
Having considered everything, I agree with the Investigator that the total sum of £100 (to 
include the £65 already offered) is appropriate. So if AIG has already paid that, it only needs 
to pay the remaining £35.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against American International Group UK Limited and require it to 
pay Miss V the total sum of £100 (to include the £65 already offered) as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman