DRN-3768201
The complaint
Mr H has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) hasnt 
paid a fair settlement for stolen items when he made a claim under a home insurance policy 
following a burglary. 
Mr H and Mrs H are joint policyholders. For ease Ill refer to Mr H in my decision as the main 
complainant.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs Hs home was burgled. They made a claim to their insurer 
AAUICL. 
AAUICL accepted their claim. It paid a settlement of £7,500 for stolen jewellery items. 
Mr H thought this was unfair as it wasnt enough to replace all of the jewellery that was 
stolen. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought AAUICL 
had settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms which were highlighted under Mr 
and Mrs Hs policy schedule. The limit for valuables under the policy was set at £7,500.
Mr H wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy with AAUICL sets out under the schedule what limits there are to 
cover for stolen contents. The schedule - along with the full policy wording - was provided 
when Mr and Mrs H bought the policy. AAUICL highlighted the following term:
About Your Cover
Standard Contents Cover (Section 1):
Insured value (total value of your entire contents) - up to £40,000
This provides cover for the replacement of contents as new (see your policy leaflet 
for exceptions) from the specific perils within the home based upon the present day 
replacement value of all your contents.
This includes valuables and personal belongings up to a total of £7,500 which is 
inclusive of any specified items below.
A single article limit of £1,500 applies for valuables and personal belongings other 
than the items listed below.
So I think AAUICL made it clear under the policy schedule as to the limits for valuables and 
personal belongings. 
I understand Mr and Mrs H will be very disappointed. But I think AAUICL dealt with their 
claim in line with the policy terms - which I think were clearly set out when they bought the 
policy. So this means it hasnt done anything wrong - and Im therefore not upholding the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman