DRN-3042828
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) dealt with a claim he made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
What happened
In March 2014 Mr S entered into an agreement with a company called My Planet for the 
supply and installation of a solar panel system. My Planet arranged for Mr S to pay for the 
system using used a fixed term loan with BPF.
Mr S says that he was told the financial benefits generated by the solar panels would cover 
the cost of the loan, but the system hasnt performed as expected.  Under s.75 a finance 
provider can be liable for misrepresentations and breaches of contract to the same extent as 
the supplier of goods or services.  So, Mr S made a claim to BPF.
BPF accepted Mr S claim and made an offer to resolve things by compensating him to make 
the system self-funding.  It calculated the cost of the servicing the loan compared to the 
actual benefit (and estimated future benefit) generated by the system over the loan term.
Mr S has settled the fixed term loan early and so the total cost of the system including 
deposit hes paid is £9,888.54.  BPFs said it has calculated the likely benefit Mr S will 
receive over the original 10-year loan term to be £10,326.61  and so on that basis the cost 
of the system would be lower than the benefit. On that basis, BPF said there was no 
compensation to be paid, but did offer £100 for the trouble and upset Mr S had experienced.
Mr S didnt accept BPFs position and brought his complaint to this Service.  One of our 
investigators looked into things and noted that when Mr S cleared the loan with BPF, he did 
so by refinancing with another loan provider.  The cost of servicing the interest on that loan 
means the cost to Mr S is in fact higher than the £9,888.54 BPF initially calculated.
BPF carried out a further calculation to account for the additional loan interest and made a 
revised offer of £1,174.70 in addition to the £100 already offered to Mr S.
As well as the system not performing as promised, Mr S also complained that following an 
inspection of his system in 2017, a third-party business charged him to replace what it had 
concluded was a faulty inverter in the system.  The claims management company (CMC) 
representing Mr S said this was a scam and the company which carried out the work 
targeted ex-customers of My Planet. So, it asked for BPF to reimburse Mr S for that cost 
also.
Our investigator felt that the revised offer made by BPF was fair and reasonable and 
compensated as though the system was self-funding and paid for itself.  But the investigator 
said that he couldnt ask BPF to pay for the inverter, as the CMC has suggested is was a 
scam by a third-party company, and theres no evidence that the original inverter was faulty.
The CMC replied saying that Mr S rejected the offer and wanted the whole transaction 
rewound.  That would mean arranging for the solar panel system to be uninstalled, 
cancelling the loan agreement and refunding payments and all costs associated with the 
system.
As no agreement could be reached, it was asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a fresh review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator.
In order for there to be a valid s.75 claim, there must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.  Im satisfied that relationship exists in this case, and as BPF has 
already accepted responsibility I wont expand further.
BPF has also accepted that the system was represented to Mr S as being self-funding and 
producing sufficient financial benefits to cover the costs of servicing the loan.  But the 
system has not performed as expected and Mr S has had to contribute towards the cost of 
servicing the loan.
So, the two key issues for me to decide are:
Is BPF responsible for the cost of the inverter that was replaced in 2017?
What is a fair and reasonable way for BPF to compensate Mr S to put things right?
The inverter
BPFs liability under s.75 extends to goods or services purchased using the finance provided 
by BPF  that is the original solar panel system supplied and installed in 2014.  The inverter 
was subsequently replaced by a third-party company who was not involved in the original 
purchase of the system (and so BPF has no relationship with).
I understand Mr S considers the cost of the replacement inverter is was only incurred as a 
result of the original system not performing.  However, I havent seen any evidence to 
confirm that the original inverter was faulty.  In fact, the CMC has suggested that Mr S was 
subjected to a scam by the third-party company  as it was a common tactic to target 
previous customers of My Planet.
Whilst I understand Mr S position, based upon the available evidence, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to conclude that BPF should be responsible for the cost of the 
replacement inverter. I am aware that BPF has offered to review Mr S feed-in tariff (FiT) 
statements to assess whether there may have been a loss of performance and fault with the 
inverter.  I think thats a reasonable offer by BPF and it is for Mr S to decide whether to 
pursue that with BPF directly.
 
Putting things right
I understand that Mr S would like to for BPF to arrange for the removal of the solar panels 
and refund of all costs associated with the system. However, given the circumstances I dont 
think the cost and impact of doing that would be proportionate to what would be fair and 
reasonable in this complaint.The reason that Mr S has a basis to claim under s.75 is because the financial benefits of the 
solar panel system were misrepresented to him.  Whilst its not my role to make the outcome 
of a misrepresentation true, I feel that appropriate compensation would be to align Mr S 
position with what he understood the cost and benefits of the system to be at the point of 
sale.
So, in principle, I agree with the approach taken by BPF to seek to compensate Mr S for the 
difference if what the system is costing Mr S, compared to what would be required for the 
system to be self-funding over the original loan term.  I appreciate that is not an exact 
science, and the compensation would be dependent upon any calculation of estimated future 
benefits.
I understand the CMC has said that the estimated benefit used by BPF in its calculation was 
not realistic and Ive considered this.  I note that the estimate has been calculated in line with 
the approach suggested by an industry expert  and which is what our Service would usually 
recommend. So, I cant say the figure BPF has used is unreasonable.
As Mr S mitigated his position by refinancing the original finance taken with BPF, Im 
satisfied its correct for BPF to take into account the cost of maintaining the replacement 
loan.  This recalculation was done by BPF and put forward to Mr S  resulting in a refund 
offer of £1,174.70.  Im satisfied the principles behind the offer made by BPF is fair and 
reasonable  but I also note that the calculation may need to be refreshed to update the 
exact compensation amount.
I appreciate the uncertainty of this ordeal will have been distressing and frustrating for Mr S.  
BPF has offer an amount of £100 in recognition of that trouble and upset.  Overall, I consider 
that sum to be in line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances.
So, in summary, I consider BPFs most recent offer of £1,174.70 to be fair and reasonable  
but given the time which has since passed  it should recalculate the position refresh the 
amount as appropriate.  This is in addition to the payment of £100 to Mr S.
I realise Mr S may be disappointed that I havent agreed with his request for BPF to uninstall 
the solar panel system and cancel the loan agreement, but I must assure him that Ive 
considered everything impartially, afresh and in full.  Having done so, Im satisfied that the 
compensation set out above is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance).
To put things right it should pay the compensation set out above to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman