DRN-3698725
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked a payment.
What happened
On 1 December 2021, Mr P and Mrs P instructed an online payment for £5,200 from their 
account with Santander. It was withheld for fraud checks. The payment was made on 2 
December 2021.
Mr P and Mrs P complained. They said that theyd suffered a lot of wasted time and 
inconvenience. They said they wasted six hours trying to speak to Santander to authorise 
the payment. They said that Santanders method of selecting payments for fraud checks was 
random and they must select more than they can cope with  because of the wait times on 
the phone. Mr P and Mrs P suggested that there should be a dedicated phone line for 
payment authorisations. They said they wanted compensation of £500 and said a sizeable 
amount would make Santander take such complaints seriously.
Santander said that the payment was flagged for checks. They said their fraud detection 
system was in place for all customers and was intended to protect clients. They apologised 
for the long wait times Mr P and Mrs P experienced on the phone but said that sometimes 
this happened during busy periods. They said they took on board the suggestion about a 
dedicated phone line for payments. Santander paid £75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr P and Mrs P brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said it was in Santanders 
terms and conditions that payments could be refused. In this case, the payment was flagged 
for checks as part of their fraud prevention process. She appreciated the frustration felt by 
Mr P and Mrs P in trying to contact Santander, but as theyd followed their processes, she 
said Santander acted reasonably.
Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read some of Mr P and Mrs Ps comments to us. So, let me say at the outset that this 
service exists to resolve individual disputes between customers and financial businesses. 
We arent the regulator of Santander  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we 
dont tell businesses to change their policies or practices. So  here, its for Santander to 
make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its online payments. But we do say if a 
customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and reasonably  based on the individual 
circumstances of their complaint. 
Ive considered what happened here. Its an unfortunate fact that banking fraud has 
increased in recent times, and Santander, like all banks, has developed sophisticated 
checking systems to identify possible fraud. In this case, the payment of £5,200 wouldve 
met certain criteria which meant it had to be checked. We are not privy to what the criteria 
are. Theyre commercially sensitive. 
I can see that the payment was initiated at around 15.20 on 1 December 2021 and was held 
for fraud checks. After Mr P and Mrs P had spoken to Santander, it was sent early on 2 
December 2021  at 08.44. In the meantime, Mr P and Mrs P say they were inconvenienced 
because they couldnt get through to Santander. They said this lasted six hours. Im not sure 
if this was an elapsed time  i.e. how long it took overall to deal with the matter, or if Mr P 
and Mrs P were held on the phone for six hours. If the latter was the case, that seems a very 
long time to me  even allowing for a lot of customers trying to call. 
So, I wanted to understand more about this. We asked Mr P and Mrs P for their phone 
records so we could see if there was an unreasonable delay  unfortunately, they couldnt 
provide these as theyve changed their phone supplier.
We also asked Santander for their records of how long Mr P and Mrs P were on the phone 
for. They showed us they called three times on 1 December 2021  at 15.26 and were 
connected at 15.57; and again at 17.28 and were connected at 17.49; and at 19.23 and were 
connected at 19.44. Of course, it is possible that there were some failed calls, or a wait time 
while trying to get a call answered  these wouldnt have been recorded by Santander. But, 
while I can see that the experience must have been frustrating for Mr P and Mrs P, Im not 
persuaded that on the evidence provided, there was a wait of six hours. Santander have 
paid compensation of £75 which I think was appropriate in the circumstances.
Ive reviewed what happened here, and while theres no doubt that Mr P and Mrs P had a 
frustrating experience, the fraud checks were part of Santanders processes. I appreciate the 
strength of Mr P and Mrs Ps feeling. But Im not going to ask Santander to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman