DRN-2088361
The complaint
Mr L complains Nationwide Building Society will not refund some disputed transactions.
Nationwide say the transactions are authorised.
 
What happened
Mr L complained about four disputed transactions to shop A made on his credit card.  The 
transactions took place over a period of approximately three weeks and Mr L said he hadnt 
made them.
Around the same time of these transactions, Mr L had also complained about some 
transactions to a X and B.  Nationwide accepted the payments to X and B were fraudulent 
and not authorised by Mr L.  These were subsequently refunded but it refused to refund the 
payments to A.
In its final response to Mr L, Nationwide said it wasnt going to refund he transactions 
because they had been made using the same IP address and device as genuine 
transactions.  It offered no further explanation as to why this could potentially make Mr L 
liable.
So, Mr L then brought this complaint to this service where our investigator thought 
Nationwide could have done more in Mr Ls complaint. She (the investigator) thought 
Nationwide hadnt done enough to show the payments were authorised and asked that it 
refund the payments now complained of.  She also thought it should pay Mr L £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in bringing the complaint.
Nationwide didnt accept the investigators view and the matter was passed to me for a final 
decision.  
In its final submissions it said it was not satisfied the payments were not authorised.  It 
referred this service to the use of the device and IP address in the past.  It also said the 
items were purchased using Mr Ls correct email address  so the confirmation of the 
purchase, along with the collection code, would have been sent to Mr Ls email address. 
Whilst there was a suspicion that Mr Ls son may have been behind the transactions to X 
and B, Nationwide did not think it was plausible that he may be behind the transactions to A.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests it more likely than not that Mr L authorised 
these payments, then Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable.   And I remind myself that it is 
for Nationwide to show that Mr L authorised these payments  not for Mr L to show he did 
not.
Authorisation is a two-stage test.  It consists of authentication and consent.  Authentication 
here is Mr Ls card being used to make the transactions by entering the card number, expiry 
date and CVV number from the back of his card.  From the evidence I have seen, I am 
satisfied the payments were authenticated.
I then need to decide whether Mr L consented to these payments  and for the following 
reasons I dont think he did:
-my starting point is that Mr L is a credible witness.  I have seen nothing to suggest 
anything to the contrary;
-I also note that Mr L is registered blind;
-it has been alleged that Mr Ls son has previously made unauthorised transactions 
on his card;
-only the first transaction was made using a device previously used for genuine 
transactions  this being Mr Ls computer.  The others were made using another 
device;
-at the same time as one of the transactions to A was being made, disputed 
transactions to X and B were also made  and all from the same IP address;
-Mr Ls computer was not password protected so could have been accessed by 
someone visiting the house;
-Mr L complained about the transactions as soon as he noticed them on his 
statement.
I note Nationwides submissions about why a fraudster would use Mr Ls email address and 
details.  Of course, using their own would potentially expose them.  With the situation as 
described by Mr L I think it is likely that the person carrying out the transactions is someone 
close to him who knew they would be able gain access to Mr Ls computer as when they 
needed.
I also note Nationwide argues that the store chosen for the collection of the items was the 
one closest to Mr Ls address.  I place very little, if any, weight to that argument.
I also place very little weight to the fact that Mr L had not reported the matter to the police.  
If, as suspected, Mr Ls son was behind these transactions, it is understandable why he 
wouldnt want to report them to the police.
In summary, I think the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr L did not authorise 
these transactions and Nationwide must refund them.
  
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society must:
-Refund the transactions to A back onto Mr Ls credit card, along with any interest and 
fees charged
-Pay 8% interest on any credits to the account if made by Mr L
-Pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience in bringing this complaint
-If necessary, to amend Mr Ls credit file in relation to any negative markers
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman