DRN-2695372
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited gave them incorrect 
information about their travel insurance policy. Reference to Admiral includes reference to 
its agents.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C booked a package holiday with intended departure and return dates of    
22 May 2020 and 5 June 2020 respectively. On 8 February 2020, Mr and Mrs C bought 
a single trip travel insurance policy with Admiral via a price comparison website. 
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. That advice remained in place on Mr and Mrs Cs intended 
departure date. 
On 20 April 2020, Mrs C phoned Admiral and asked if she could change the effective 
dates of their policy if their trip was cancelled due to covid-19 and rebooked to a later 
date, and if they would be covered for covid-19 related issues. Ill refer to that phone 
conversation in more detail below.
Mr and Mrs C changed the dates of their trip to May 2021. On 1 May 2020, Mrs C 
contacted Admiral to change the dates of their policy. Admiral told her that it couldnt 
change the policy dates to May 2021, as it was too far in advance. It said that it could 
only change the policy dates up to 365 days from the date their original policy was 
accepted, so up to 8 February 2021. It offered to refund the policy premium.   
Admiral also told Mrs C that she wouldnt be covered for claims arising from covid-19. In 
response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, Admiral said that it had made an error in the call 
on 20 April 2020. It said that it should have reiterated to Mrs C the information it had 
previously sent to all customers which said that from 17 March 2020, it considered that 
the covid-19 pandemic was an anticipated event, so excluded from cover under the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs C say that Admiral didnt say that there would be a limit on how far in the 
future they could change their cover. They say that they rebooked the holiday on the 
basis that they could change the policy dates and that theyd be covered for claims 
arising out of covid-19. Mr and Mrs C say that if theyd known the true position, they 
would have asked for a refund from their travel provider, rather than rebooking the trip. 
Mr and Mrs C say that this matter has caused them worry and distress. They want 
Admiral to refund the cost of their trip.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Admiral had given 
Mrs C incorrect information during the call on 20 April 2020. The investigator said that 
Admiral acknowledged that it told Mrs C, incorrectly, that shed have cover for covid-19 
related claims. She said that Admiral should have made Mrs C aware of any time limits 
that were relevant. The investigator said that in offering to refund the premium, Admiral 
had put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if it hadnt given them 
incorrect information. 
The investigator didnt think that Mr and Mrs C had suffered a financial loss as a result of 
the incorrect information. She said that shed seen nothing to suggest that they couldnt 
obtain insurance elsewhere. The investigator said that the trip hadnt been cancelled and 
if it is subsequently cancelled due to covid-19, the travel provider will be obliged to 
refund the trip costs. She said that Admirals offer to refund the premium was fair and 
more than it was required to do.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator, so their complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive listened to the recording of the phone call on 20 April 2020 between Mrs C and 
Admiral. I think that as Mrs C asked about changing the dates of her policy, Admiral 
should have mentioned any relevant limitations and said that it could only change the 
policy dates up to 365 days from the date their original policy was accepted, so up to 
8 February 2021. 
Admiral acknowledges that it told Mrs C, incorrectly, that if she changed the dates of 
the policy, she would be covered for claims relating to covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs C say that if they had been aware of the true position, they would have 
cancelled the trip and taken the travel providers offer of a refund. Instead, they 
rebooked their trip for May 2021. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct 
Admiral to reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the cost of the trip. Thats because                
Mr and Mrs C havent lost the value of the trip. If their trip doesnt go ahead because 
of covid-19, Mr and Mrs C will have rights against the travel provider.
On 17 March 2020, Admiral decided that covid-19 was an anticipated event, so not 
covered under the policy. Admiral incorrectly told Mrs C that if she changed the dates 
of the policy, she would be covered for claims relating to covid-19. In circumstances 
like these, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect information is true, we 
look to see what effect it had. Mr and Mrs C suffered loss of expectation in finding out 
the true position. I think that Admirals offer to refund the premium is fair 
compensation for what happened here. 
I can quite understand that Mr and Mrs C want to know that, if they go on the trip, 
they have cover for covid-19 related claims, but there are no grounds on which I can 
direct Admiral to provide cover on those terms. I dont uphold this complaint because I think that the offer Admiral has already made to 
refund the premium is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
If Admiral hasnt already refunded the premium to Mr and Mrs C and they wish to take up 
that offer, they should contact Admiral direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman