DRN-4346232
The complaint
Ms N complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined her claim for escape of water 
on her landlords insurance policy.
Ms N is represented on this complaint, for ease of reading Ive referred to Ms N throughout. 
What happened
Ms N owns a house which is rented out to tenants. In December 2022 a water pipe in the loft 
of the house burst which caused an escape of water. The escape of water caused extensive 
damage to the house, so Ms N claimed on her policy with AXA. 
AXA reviewed the claim and discovered the tenant had said the roof had gaps in it in May 
2022. AXA thought this had contributed to the pipe freezing and bursting. Ms N didnt think 
this was fair and complained, she didnt agree the work being done to repair the roof when 
AXA visited was related to the claim. 
AXA reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the policy didnt provide cover for 
claims which arise from wear and tear and general maintenance. Ms N didnt think this was 
fair and brought her complaint here. She said the house wasnt in a poor state of repair and 
this was evident from the photos of the interior of the house. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
AXA had reviewed the property and provided photos of the roof which showed there were 
gaps in it and that it wasnt felted either. The tenant had also said the condition of the roof 
had been noted several months before. So, the Investigator thought this supported AXAs 
position that the roof was in a poor state of repair and likely the cause of the burst pipe. 
Because of this he didnt find AXA had acted unreasonably by declining the claim. 
Ms N didnt agree for similar reasons stated previously, so the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ns policy say it doesnt cover:
9. Gradual deterioration/maintenance 
Any loss or damage caused gradually or by wear and tear, depreciation, 
the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus 
and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of 
your buildings and landlords contents.
Ive therefore considered whether AXA has applied this exclusion in a fair and reasonable 
way.
Ms N has explained that the roof had undergone repairs in March 2022 and thought the 
tenant may be mistaken about issues being identified in May 2022. She also didnt agree the 
house was in a poor state of repair and referred to the video the tenant had taken when the 
leak occurred. Ms N also explained the insurer had reviewed the damage around three 
months after the incident and as the scaffolding was already in place to repair the roof, that 
the tiles may have been moved by the roofers to exaggerate any gaps to facilitate repairs. 
Ive considered Ms Ns comments along with the report AXA completed on Ms Ns house. In 
doing so Im not persuaded AXA has acted unreasonably in declining the claim. I say this 
because AXA has provided several photos and recordings to support its position. Ive 
reviewed these and can see there are gaps in the roof which clearly show the roof isnt in a 
good state of repair. In addition, it appears the felt is also missing. 
I understand Ms Ns comments that this may have been caused by the roofers carrying out 
the repair. However, I also need to consider that the roof needs repairs which arent related 
to the claim. And in doing so and taking into account the burst pipe was in the roof, Im 
satisfied AXA has done enough to show the claim was most likely caused by the roof 
needing maintenance. As so it follows that Im satisfied that its most likely this resulted in the 
claim and is therefore excluded under the policy.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms N, but for the reasons explained above Im 
not going to tell AXA to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman