DRN-4179288
The complaint
Mr A complains that Punjab National Bank (International) Limited (PNB) made his savings 
account inactive and asked for unnecessary information to re-activate it. 
What happened
Mr A has said he does not think PNB has acted within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) handbook guidelines when running his savings account. Hes said this is because 
they do not provide telephone banking for the account, it was made inactive even though 
savings accounts will only have periodic use and PNB asked for his National Insurance 
number to reactivate the account which he did not feel was reasonable. 
As a result of this, Mr A closed the account and transferred the funds to a separate bank 
account. He opted to transfer the funds via BACs and was told this could take up to three 
working days. He contacted PNB the following day as the funds had shown as having left the 
savings account, but werent yet showing in the recipient bank account. He was unhappy 
that there was not a digital footprint showing where the funds were.
PNB issued a final response letter in which it explained that as the account had been 
inactive for 12 months, as per the terms and conditions, certain restrictions were placed on it 
until Mr A sent in documentation, either in person or by post, to activate it again. They also 
said that Mr As National Insurance number was needed as part of the tax self-certification 
form that had to be completed as part of PNBs regulatory requirements. And in relation to 
the BACs, they said it could take three working days for the funds to appear in the recipient 
account. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service as he was not satisfied with the response. Our 
Investigator looked into it and agreed wit PNBs final response letter. Overall, they did not 
agree that PNB had made an error in the circumstances so didnt recommend any further 
action from PNB. 
Mr A disagreed with the outcome. He reiterated why he did not think PNB had adhered to 
the FCAs handbook guidelines. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons, so I do not 
uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why in more detail.
Ill firstly focus on the account being made inactive. Looking at the terms and conditions of 
the account, they state that they consider an Account to be inactive when there has been no 
activity, except for the posting of charges and interest, for a period of 12 months. 
PNB has provided a letter it sent to Mr As current address on 21 September 2020 which let 
him know there had been no customer induced transactions in the last 12 months. As a 
result, the account had been made inactive and Im satisfied this was done in line with the 
terms and conditions set out above. I understand Mr As point that a savings account will be 
used periodically. However, on balance I think it is reasonable for PNB to take precautions to 
ensure an account is protected against fraudulent activity. And I think 12 months of inactivity 
is a reasonable timeframe to apply restrictions to the account which are in the best interest 
of Mr A. So, I dont think PNB made an error when it made the account inactive. 
Mr A has said that he was asked for his National Insurance number when in branch in order 
to re-activate the account, but he does not think it was relevant information. PNB has 
explained that this was needed to complete a tax self-certification form which must be 
completed as part of their tax compliance duties. So, while this was not a specific 
requirement for the re-activation of the account, it was needed for PNB to comply with the 
relevant regulations. As a result, I think it was reasonable for PNB to ask Mr A for his 
National Insurance number when he went to reactivate the account. 
The terms and conditions of the account state that they will need to confirm your identity 
again by asking you to provide up to date documentation confirming your name and 
address. While I appreciate Mr As comments that he is being asked to provide documents 
that were provided at the time of account opening, I dont think it is unreasonable that PNB 
has asked for up to date documentation in order to confirm his identity, to ensure they were 
dealing with the correct individual.
Mr A is unhappy that PNB did not provide telephone banking as part of the account services. 
PNB has explained that it did provide internet and mobile phone banking, as well as in-
branch services, for the maintenance of the account. It is up to PNB what services they 
provide to maintain the account and this is not something Im able to recommend they 
change. Mr A had a choice in opening the account based on the services provided by PNB 
and was able to bank elsewhere if the services offered were unsuitable for him. 
Ive finally considered the BACs transfer as Mr A has said the same day the transfer was 
requested, the funds showed as debiting from the PNB account, but did not appear in the 
recipient bank. Mr A was concerned that there was not a digital footprint of the transaction. It 
should be noted that Mr A has not said the funds were not received at all in the recipient 
bank, just that there was not a digital footprint of it appearing the day after the transfer was 
actioned. 
As PNB explained in branch when Mr A requested a transfer via BACs, which had no fees or 
charges applied to it, this could take up to three days to be processed. As a result, the funds 
were not yet appearing in the recipient bank the day after the transfer was actioned. This is 
not unusual as the funds would normally only appear when the transfer had been fully 
processed. As the three days had not elapsed, it was not unreasonable that the funds were 
therefore not appearing in the recipient bank account the day after the transfer was actioned. 
On balance, having carefully considered the information available to be, I dont agree PNB 
has made an error in the circumstances. It applied restrictions to Mr As account in line with 
the terms and conditions and I think this was in the best interest of Mr A. They have 
explained why they needed the relevant documents to re-activate the account and this was 
to ensure they were dealing with the correct consumer. While I appreciate Mr A would like 
more ways in which to bank, Im unable to recommend PNB change how it operates as a 
business. And I think PNB explained the process of the BACs and dont appear to have made an error in carrying out the transfer. So, I dont think they need to take any action to 
remedy the complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Punjab National Bank (International) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman