DRN-1827917
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Bradford & Bingley Plc. 
 
In short, she says:
She wasnt made aware the bonds had no end date. 
She only recently found out that she will incur a substantial capital gains tax (CGT) 
liability upon surrender of the bonds.
 
What happened
 In 1996, Mrs B contacted the adviser  following advice from counter staff  about investing 
some money shed inherited from her parents. It was recorded in the fact find that she was 
46 years of age, married  her husband was 47 years old  and they were both employed. It 
was also recorded she had a low to medium attitude to risk.
Mrs B was advised to invest £89,888, in the medium to long term, in the following 
investments:
£25,000 in a Prudential With-Profits Bond - with a minimum investment period of five 
years - followed by a £10,000 top up in March 2000.
£18,000 in a Sun Life (now Aviva) Flexible Bond followed by a top up of £16,000 in 
March 2000.
£12,000 in a Legal & General With-Profits Distribution Bond and £8,000 into a 
Deferred Distribution Bond.  
 
The business upheld the complaint on the basis that it was unable to safely say that the 
recommendation was suitable for her at the time  in other words that Mrs B was in a 
position to accept risk  but concluded that she hadnt suffered a financial loss. 
Mrs B welcomed the uphold but disagreed with the businesss proposed redress and was 
unhappy about having to pay any CGT on her investment gains. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mrs Bs investments performed extremely well over the 23 years that it was held  
the £89,888 invested produced a surrender value of £313,849. 
Nevertheless, the business accepts that the advice was unsuitable. It calculated 
redress using a comparison with the average one-year fixed rate bond return as 
advised by the Bank of England (BoE) which is a suitable redress benchmark in the 
circumstances. Having done so, it found that had Mrs B been given the correct advice  the interest 
she wouldve received on her savings was less than the estimated surrender values 
of the bonds. 
Mrs B hadnt therefore suffered a financial loss as a result of the unsuitable advice. 
On the contrary, she benefitted in the region of £117,826. 
In the circumstances it wouldnt be fair to ask the business to pay the CGT liability 
made on Mrs Bs excess profits. 
 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She made a number of points which the investigator considered and responded to in the 
following way:
If Mrs B had been advised correctly  in other words if shed been advised to invest 
in no risk products  she wouldve received a gain of around £106,135. But instead 
shes received an excess gain of around £117,826. 
So Mrs B has received over and above what she wouldve received if shed been 
given the correct advice. 
Although Mrs B says she didnt have access to her funds, the investigator has seen 
nothing to suggest that she tried to access the funds. 
The investigator doesnt doubt the circumstances in which she was approached by 
the adviser initially. But this isnt something she now needs to consider because the 
complaint was already upheld by the business. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Before I explain further, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mrs B 
has about this matter.
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
I appreciate Mrs B feels her points havent been considered properly, and Im sorry she feels 
that way. My role is to consider the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, 
rather than take any sides. Its not my role to regulate or punish the business for any alleged breaches, thats the role of 
the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether 
or not the business has done anything wrong. 
Because the business upheld the complaint on the basis that a risk-based investment was 
unsuitable, the key issue for me to consider is redress, and whether or not the business 
redress methodology is fair and reasonable. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs B says, Im satisfied that the 
redress methodology used by the business to calculate any potential loss is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
In other words, Im satisfied that using the BoE base rate as a comparison for calculating any 
potential loss is reasonable and Im unable to say that the business has done anything 
wrong by using this rate.  
I agree with the business that this doesnt mean that Mrs B would have invested only in a 
fixed-rate bond, rather it broadly reflects the sort of investment return she couldve obtained 
with no risk to her capital.
As a result of the calculations Im also satisfied that Mrs B hasnt suffered a financial loss. I 
think its unlikely that she wouldve, given that she made extensive gains partly because she 
was willing to take a low to medium risk with her money and the markets were in her favour.
I think its important for Mrs B to understand that the potential to make money with risk-
based investment is generally (although not always) higher than with no-risk investments but 
obviously with a risk you could also lose money. In contrast a no-risk investment is unlikely 
to provide investment gains that are as high but obviously dont carry any risk of losing 
money either.
In this instance just because incorrect advice was given doesnt automatically mean that 
compensation is due. The incorrect advice clearly worked in Mrs Bs favour, so far as her 
investment gain was concerned, and she ended up with gains that she wouldnt otherwise 
have achieved. This is why I dont think the business is responsible for paying any CGT 
thats due on the gains.   
Even if she had achieved similar gains by investing in something else, shed still be liable to 
pay the CGT. So, despite what Mrs B says, Im not persuaded that the business has to pay 
the CGT liability on money she wouldnt otherwise have got but for the unsuitable advice. 
Im mindful Mrs B says she was unable to access her funds, but like the investigator Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that she tried to. And if she wasnt sure how to access the 
funds after all these years she was free to get in touch with the business, as she has done in 
due course.  
I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to ask the business to do anything.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman