DRN-4238235
The complaint
Miss C complains that, having had a gambling block put in place for her online account, 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed her to carry out gambling transactions. 
What happened
Miss C is a compulsive gambler for which she has sought treatment and interventions. 
I understand that she contacted NatWest some time in 2020 and some time later she set up 
a block on her online account so that she couldn't carry out gambling transactions. She 
believed it would stop all gambling activity. She managed to keep clear of gambling for a 
year, but in March 2023 she gambled over three days and spent over £1,100.
Miss C contacted NatWest to ask why the payments were not blocked. The payments were 
made through an online payments company. NatWest explained that it cannot block this type 
of payment without suspending access to its online service. It offered to arrange for that to 
be done on Miss Cs confirmation that shed like it to do this. It further said that when making 
payments like this via its online or mobile services, there are a number of screens the 
customer has to go through and questions that have to be answered before the payment is 
processed. This is designed to give thinking time/breathing space before completing the 
payment. It acknowledged that where someone is determined to gamble, this process alone 
will not be a sufficient deterrent.
Miss C remained unhappy as she thought all gambling transactions were blocked. She used 
the online account for transferring money into or from another account, so it would cause 
difficulty for her to block the online account altogether. She believes that NatWest should be 
able to block payments to certain companies as she understands another bank does. The 
money she spent/lost was to help with her disabled fathers rent and care. She believes 
NatWest should refund that money.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that she could not 
hold NatWest responsible when it exercised the options available to it to try and support 
Miss C and she had been able to gamble using other means.
Miss C was unhappy and felt that if NatWest was unable to block gambling transactions it 
shouldn't have promised her that it could.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, my decision is 
based on what I consider in my opinion is most likely to have happened. 
Miss C tells us that she contacted NatWest about her gambling problems sometime in 2020. 
Unfortunately NatWest doesn't have case notes or call notes about what was discussed at 
the time. And I understand that she believes that NatWest assured her it would be able to 
stop all gambling transactions. I think I can say that Miss C was told that NatWest offered a 
service through its banking app that enabled customers to block gambling transactions. But I 
simply can't say that Miss C was told this meant all gambling transactions would be able to 
be stopped.
From reviewing Miss Cs statements that NatWest has provided to us, it appears that Miss C 
carried out gambling transactions, using her debit card, frequently up until December 2021. 
So that means that she must have switched on the gambling block on her account around 
about that time, but a long time after she said shed been in contact with NatWest. 
Regrettably because the evidence about Miss C's contacts with Nat West is so vague, 
I'm not able to reach a conclusion that NatWest told her that she would be able to block all 
gambling transactions.
Rather, it appears the system can block gambling payments made with the debit card but 
online payments, ie those made by direct transfer, will not be blocked. This is particularly the 
case with the payments Miss C was able to make to gambling companies as they were 
made through an online payment service which wouldn't be recognised by NatWest as a 
gambling transaction.
I appreciate that Miss C is in a difficult position and respect her honesty in disclosing her 
addiction. But having regard to the evidence I think NatWest told her about the gambling 
block but I can't reach a conclusion about her allegation that she was told that it was able to 
block gambling transactions wherever they are made. The system is an automated one 
which relies on blocking certain codes when the card is used and in this case will not block 
direct online payments.
Miss C carried out her gambling transactions on three successive days. And she spent 
successively larger amounts on each day. So she would have known after the first day 
payments were not being blocked. And, as NatWest has said, the system requires the 
customer to come through a number of screens before the payment would be made. But it 
won't stop someone who is able to gamble using other means.
I'm really sorry that Miss C lapsed when she had been so determined to stay free of 
gambling. But I can't find that NatWest is responsible for her losses. Also I understand that 
NatWest can't block particular transactions without suspending access for Miss C to her 
online account altogether. If that is the system it has, then there is no point in me directing it 
to block particular payments.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman