DRN-4452010
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release mortgage that Mrs L applied for with more 2 life Ltd 
(M2L) in 2022. Her complaint is that delays on the part of M2L caused the mortgage offer to 
expire before she could complete on her new home purchase. M2L issued a new offer but at 
a much higher interest rate, which she considered unfair and so didnt proceed with the 
purchase and mortgage. Instead, on selling her existing home, Mrs L moved into temporary 
accommodation, and only recently bought a new permanent home, without a mortgage.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 11 October 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs L and M2L. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Also, 
its not a case where I have to decide fault; M2L has accepted its contribution to the 
house purchase and mortgage being aborted. So all I have to decide is how the 
complaint should fairly be resolved.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs L being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Our investigator recommended M2L pay Mrs L £1,500 compensation for time, trouble 
and upset. M2L: agreed to pay this; however, there was a second component to the 
investigators recommendation. That was that, if Mrs L were to apply for another 
equity release mortgage during 2023, M2L should grant the mortgage at the same 
rate it had offered the original, aborted, mortgage. M2Lhas objected to that, so the 
case has come to me to review.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill deal first with the uncontested component of the recommended award. Assessing 
fair compensation for peoples time trouble and upset isnt an exact science; it comes 
down to perception; every situation is different and everything has its own context. 
Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a 
complex transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and 
inconvenience is to be expected. 
Taking into consideration everything that both parties have said and provided, and 
mindful of our general approach. I consider that the £1,500 our investigator 
recommended represents fair and reasonable compensation for M2Ls shortcomings 
in this case. 
The issue of whether and on what terms M2L must lend to Mrs L if she ask it to is 
more complex. As a general rule, we take the view that lending decisions are matters 
for lenders commercial discretion which, for the most part, we wont interfere with. 
Its only in the most exceptional of circumstances that we would depart from that 
starting position, and Im not persuaded I should do so here. Ill explain why.
First of all, M2L has made the rather pertinent point about the need for Mrs L to 
obtain fresh advice from a suitably-qualified intermediary, not least to check whether 
a mortgage with M2L would be the most suitable solution for her in what is likely to 
be a new set of circumstances. Thats particularly apt because Mrs Ls circumstances 
have changed whilst the complaint has been with us. Shes no longer looking for a 
property to buy; she has now bought one, as I understand ii, on a shared ownership 
basis. So its possible she no longer needs or wants a mortgage. Even if she does, 
any mortgage she might take out in future would need to be from a lender that 
provides equity release lifetime mortgages on shared ownership properties.
I dont know if M2L lends on shared ownership, and for the purpose of this decision I 
dont need to. I make the observation to reinforce the point that it would not be 
appropriate for me to order a business to provide a mortgage that might not be the 
most suitable option for Mrs L, or indeed one that, all other things being equal, might 
be outside M2Ls lending criteria in any event.
So, aside from any other objections M2L may have, the simple fact is that the 
situation has moved on since the investigator made his recommendation, and a 
different solution is required. With that in mind, I think M2L should agree to reimburse 
the cost of Mrs L seeking advice from an independent financial advisor (IFA) on 
applying for a lifetime mortgage in the future, up to a maximum of £1,000. That 
reimbursement should be payable on production of a receipted invoice from the IFA 
detailing the nature of the advice given.
I dont think it would be fair to make this an open-ended commitment. I think six 
months would be a reasonable period of time for Mrs L to decide whether she still 
wants a mortgage, and arrange the necessary advice.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. M2L accepted it without further comment. 
Mrs L did not; she queried why there no consideration had been given to her out of-pocket 
expenses. She also questioned the point of seeking advice about a future mortgage as she 
is now settled in her new home and not intending to move again.
Based on Mrs Ls further comments, I issued a second provisional decision, in which I made 
the following additional findings.  
Ill start with an apology to Mrs L. From my reading of the responses to the 
investigators view of the case, I had interpreted Mrs Ls position as being that she 
was accepting of the proposed payment of £1,500 rather than continuing with her 
claim for out of-pocket expenses. I realise on further reflection that was a mistake on 
my part.
Mrs Ls claim is for the costs she incurred as a result of moving out of her old home 
without having a new permanent home to move into for several months. These 
include accommodation and storage costs, as one might expect, but also loss of 
benefits and other ancillary items that our investigator didnt think would have been 
reasonably foreseeable by M2L. I have reached a similar conclusion on that point, 
but even on those costs that certainly would have been foreseeable, Im not 
persuaded M2L should have to reimburse them. Mrs L says her costs are in the region of £10,000 before netting off the interest she 
would have been paying M2L on the mortgage if it had gone ahead. Bearing in mind 
the lifetime nature of the mortgage, I think Mrs L is under-estimating how quickly 
interest would accrue to the mortgage. It would take less than three years for the 
mortgage interest to exceed £10,000. I appreciate this is a delicate subject, but 
based on life expectancy information published by the Office of National Statistics, 
the greater likelihood is that Mrs L would have held the mortgage long enough for the 
accrued interest to exceed the value of her claim.  
As for the suggestion that M2L should meet the cost of Mrs L obtaining advice on 
another mortgage, that was not predicated on the assumption that she would wish to 
move again. Rather, it was in case Mrs L decided she would, after a period of 
reflection, decided she would like to seek a mortgage on the new home she now 
occupies.
Both parties responded to the second provisional decision. M2L accepted it without further 
comment. Mrs L did not; she said, in summary:
She sold up and moved out of her previous house before applying for the lifetime 
mortgage;
Her intention was always to make regular interest payments on the lifetime mortgage 
rather than allow it to accrue. The reason she rejected the second offer was that the 
higher rate would have made the monthly payment unfordable.
Because shed be paying the interest rather than having it accrue to the mortgage, the 
life expectancy issue was irrelevant. Nine months worth of interest is around £4,400 
whereas her out-of-pocket costs were approximately £9,500. She is due the difference.

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, Im 
persuaded that the remedy Ive proposed is fair in all the circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs Ls intention was to pay the monthly interest rather than allow it to accrue. 
But whilst that takes the compounding effect out of the equation, it still means Mrs L is 
saving by not having a mortgage on which to pay interest. Also, the interest saved is not just 
the nine months worth that Mrs L has factored into her own calculation. 
I have to consider how long Mrs L would have been paying interest on the mortgage if she 
had taken it out, and that is why life-expectancy is directly relevant. I said in my second 
provisional decision that it would take less than three years for the interest to exceed the 
claim value. If I take her own figures on face value, Mrs L would actually have needed to 
hold the mortgage for only 20 months before the total interest paid on it exceeded the £9,500 
of out-of-pocket expenses she is claiming back.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering more 2 life Ltd to do the 
following:On production of a receipted invoice within six months of this complaint being settled, 
reimburse the cost of Mrs L seeking advice from an IFA on applying for a lifetime 
mortgage in the future, up to a maximum of £1,000; and
pay Mrs L £1,500 compensation for her time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman