DRN-3914006
The complaint
Miss G complains about the service she received from Inter Partner Assistance SA after she 
claimed for a boiler repair under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss G has a home emergency policy, which is provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA). 
At the end of November 2021, Miss Gs boiler broke down. So, she contacted IPA to claim 
under the policy and asked it to assist her with a boiler repair. IPA it sent an engineer to Miss 
Gs home address. The engineers visit took place on 29 November 2021.
Miss G said that, during the engineers visit, they opened the boiler and sprayed it with an 
excessive amount of WD40. She said that, while doing so, some of the WD40 was sprayed 
onto a family members jacket permanently staining it. 
Miss G said the engineer wasnt able to get her boiler working again and told her to wait to 
hear further from IPA. She said she was left with no central heating and she chased IPA for 
an update on her repair claim after not hearing from it for several days. She said IPA 
informed her that her claim had been closed. The claim was then reopened but this caused a 
delay in the claim being progressed.
IPA informed Miss G that shed need to provide documents confirming that the boiler had 
been appropriately serviced because the engineer had raised concerns about its condition. 
As shed recently purchased her house, Miss G didnt have documentation about the history 
of the boiler. So, she had to contact her conveyancer to request service records. But they 
werent provided to Miss G until 10 January. This caused a further delay, of around a month. 
When Miss G provided the requested documents to IPA it wasnt happy with the service 
document. It stated that there was no date on the document and the serial number appeared 
to have been altered. It also said the servicing engineer wasnt qualified to service boilers as 
theyd had their licence revoked. So, it asked her to obtain a report from an independent 
engineer confirming the condition of the boiler and whether it was beyond economic repair.
Miss G instructed a company, which Ill refer to here as G, to inspect and provide a report 
about the condition of her boiler. G sent an engineer to Miss Gs home who reported that the 
boiler was over 20 years old and damaged beyond economic repair. It said the fan and other 
components needed to be replaced together with the casing, which was corroded. When 
Miss G provided the engineers report to IPA it accepted the content and offered a 
contribution of £500 towards the cost of a new boiler.
Miss G said that, during the time that her boiler was broken, her doors warped and some of 
her radiators corroded due to leaks. She complained about this, the service she received 
and the stain on her fathers jacket to IPA.
IPA investigated Miss Gs concerns, but it didnt uphold her complaint about the doors 
warping, radiators corroding, or jacket being stained. It did, however, acknowledge that there 
had been delays in the claim being dealt with as a result of the claim being closed in error. 
And it offered Miss G £50 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset this had caused.
Being dissatisfied with IPAs response to her complaint, Miss G referred it to our service. To 
resolve her complaint, Miss G told our investigator that she wanted IPA to replace the 
warped doors, stained jacket, corroded radiators and the boiler.
Our investigator empathised with Miss G about what had happened. But they didnt 
recommend upholding her complaint. They didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
that the jacket had been damaged by IPAs engineer and didnt accept the delay in the claim 
progressing had caused damage within Miss Gs home. They thought IPA had acted fairly in 
offering a contribution of £500 towards the cost of a new boiler in line with the policy and that 
the £50 compensation it had offered to resolve the complaint was fair and reasonable.
IPA accepted our investigators view of Miss Gs complaint and confirmed that the £500 
contribution offer remained open. However, Miss G rejected our investigators 
recommendation. So, Ive been asked to decide the fairest way to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Miss G or IPA its not 
because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether IPA made a mistake, or treated Miss G unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. 
Records from the Land Register confirm that Miss G completed on the purchase of her home 
in March 2021. Ive seen a copy of the home buyer report relating to the purchase of Miss 
Gs home. This report confirms that the property was inspected on 23 July 2020. It also 
identifies areas of concern with dampness within the property and the condition of the boiler, 
which is estimated to be 20 years old and not operational during the inspection.
Miss G said the boiler broke at the end of November and I can see that the boiler repair 
claim was logged on the same day the IPA appointed engineer attended Miss Gs home. Im 
persuaded this demonstrates that IPA acted proactively in allocating the claim to an engineer 
and dispatching one promptly. It couldnt have taken any quicker action here.
Ive had sight of the report from the engineer that IPA appointed, which is dated 29 
November 2021. This report states that the boiler fan is faulty as it has seized. It goes on to 
say that the boiler is 17 years old and hasnt been serviced  it being in poor condition. The 
report also states that the homeowners havent yet moved into the home having only 
recently purchased the property. 
Im satisfied that the observations of the engineer regarding the condition of the boiler are 
fair and accurate. I say this because the photographs of the boiler that our service received 
clearly show its in poor condition and that theres evidence of corrosion on the burner, water 
ingress, debris from the burner together with an accumulation of soot and carbon on the heat 
exchanger and in the bottom of the boiler. The report that Miss G commissioned from G corroborates the view of IPAs appointed 
engineer. The report clearly explains that the boiler very old  it being over 20 years in age. 
The report confirms the boiler is in very poor condition as the casing is corroded and needs 
replacing in full. It says the fan and other components also require replacement.
In the overall circumstances Im persuaded that it was reasonable for the boiler to be 
assessed as being beyond economic repair. Before that happened though, at the outset of 
the claim, IPA closed Miss Gs claim in error and without her knowledge. 
IPA offered Miss G £50 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of its error and I can see that 
the claim was reopened once Miss G was made aware of what had happened. IPA also 
informed Miss G comprehensively what was needed to progress the claim. Im satisfied the 
delay IPAs error caused was minimal. It didnt affect the outcome of the claim  although I 
can appreciate that what happened caused upset and inconvenience to Miss G.
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied the £50 compensation award is a reasonable 
amount that fairly recognises the impact this error would have had on Miss G. Its in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances and its what I would have told 
IPA to pay had an award not been suggested already.
After Miss Gs claim was reopened, IPA requested documentation confirming that the boiler 
had been appropriately serviced. This resulted in the claim being delayed because, as I 
explained in the background to this complaint, Miss G hadnt been left with these documents 
on completing the purchase of her home. 
IPA has told our service is was unaware that Miss G had recently moved into the property. I 
havent seen any evidence from its business records that Miss G informed IPA of the reason 
for her difficulties in obtaining boiler documentation. Had IPA been aware that Miss G was 
without the requested documentation due to a recent house move this may have influenced 
its decision regarding whether to ask for the boiler servicing documentation. 
Im persuaded that, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, it was reasonable for IPA 
to request the boiler servicing documentation before progressing the claim any further. I say 
this because the terms of Miss Gs insurance policy state that loss of damage caused by a 
lack of maintenance isnt covered. Its clear from the policy documentation that theres an 
expectation that the policyholder maintains their boiler in order for a claim to be successful.
Here, the IPA appointed engineer had reported concerns regarding the age of the boiler and 
the presence of signs indicating a lack of maintenance. In such circumstances, Im satisfied 
it was fair and reasonable for IPA to ask to see evidence of appropriate servicing records 
before determining whether cover for the replacement of the boiler fell within the remit of the 
policy.
Ive seen the servicing document Miss G provided IPA and think the concerns it raised about 
the veracity of the document were fair. In such circumstances I dont think it was 
unreasonable to request a report from an independent engineer appointed by Miss G. This 
may have added to the time it took to resolve this claim but I think IPAs request for both the 
servicing records and an independent report were legitimate and made in good faith in 
efforts to progress Miss Gs claim on her behalf.
As a result of all the information IPA obtained, it was able to approve Miss Gs boiler repair 
claim. The terms of the policy outline that the maximum it will indemnify a policyholder for 
boiler repairs is £500. Theres no provision regarding the cost of replacing a boiler if it cant 
be repaired.Here, IPA has offered to contribute £500 towards the cost of a new boiler because Miss Gs 
boiler has been assessed as being beyond economic repair. In straying outside the policy 
terms to Miss Gs benefit I cant conclude that IPA has acted unfairly in its assessment of the 
claim.
Ill turn now to the part of Miss Gs complaint which is about the damage she said was 
caused to a family members jacket during the engineers attendance at her home on 29 
November 2021.
For me to be able to uphold a complaint about damage to clothing Id have to be persuaded 
that an error by IPA caused the staining that Miss G said happened. So, Ive carefully 
considered the available evidence.
IPA states its engineer made efforts to try to resolve the issues with the boiler during the site 
visit. But this wasnt possible due to its overall condition. Miss G has argued that it was 
during this visit that the engineer sprayed an excessive amount of WD40 on the boiler, which 
stained her family members jacket while they were stood in the vicinity. IPA disputes this 
happened.
Miss G has provided our service with a photograph of the jacket and video taken by her 
during the visit from IPAs appointed engineer. This video shows the engineer working on the 
boiler. It also shows that theres no people, clothing, fabrics or personal effects within the 
immediate vicinity of their workspace.
IPA has said the engineer wouldnt have used WD40 as it wouldnt be safe. They said the 
fan was seized and, if it hadnt been, a few drops of a specialist fan grease would have been 
applied to lubricate the bearings. It said this grease wouldnt have been applied in mass. IPA 
also explained that there was no clothing or other personal items within the vicinity of the 
boiler and that, as the visit took place during the pandemic, measures were in place which 
stipulated that an engineer would need at least 2 meters of clear space within which to work.
Here, Im satisfied that it would have been unsafe to use WD40, which is what Miss G said 
caused the stain on her family members jacket. Im also persuaded that the video shows the 
engineer was working 2 meters away from Miss G and any attending family members. The 
video doesnt show any WD40 or other sprays being used by the engineer or any people or 
clothing near their workspace.
 
Taking all of the available evidence into account, Im afraid I havent seen enough evidence 
to persuade me that the engineer caused damage to the item of clothing. So, I cant direct 
IPA to replace the jacket.
In relation to the issue of further damage that Miss G said was caused as a result of her 
boiler not working she contends that, due to the central heating being off, her radiators have 
corroded and 6 doors have warped.
IPAs appointed engineer said Miss Gs property didnt look lived in and was in the process 
of being renovated. They said the boiler was in a utility room that was being used to store 
tools and materials for the renovation. Theyve recorded on their job sheet that the 
homeowners havent yet moved in. Im persuaded that this comment was recorded following 
disclosure by Miss G. The engineer otherwise wouldnt have known this information or had 
any reason to note it.
The disclosure by Miss G to the engineer is significant because the evidence persuades me 
that, on balance, the property had most likely been renovated and not lived in prior to the boiler breaking. The homebuyer report referred to the presence of damp within the property 
due to water ingress. It recommends repair and Ive already explained that the boiler wasnt 
working at the time of the homebuyers inspection.
I think, in the circumstances, the above factors may provide an explanation as to why the 
radiators corroded and the doors warped. Such damage is consistent with a what might be 
expected within a property that has been unheated for an extended period. Its unlikely to 
have happened within the time Miss Gs claim was dealt with by IPA because damage of this 
nature isnt consistent with the heating being off from the time the boiler broke to the date the 
damage was reported, which was around 6 weeks. Im therefore unable to direct IPA to pay 
for any property damage Miss G reported to it.
I realise Miss G will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with IPA informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss 
G any further with this complaint.
 
  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman