DRN-4332330
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited failed to transfer over the 
free insurance excess reimbursement benefit to their new policy after a change to the policy 
and they would like it reinstated.  
    
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A took out multi car policy through a comparison website. On the website 
there was an offer which provided a free excess reimbursement benefit if the policy was 
purchased through them. 
After purchasing the policy, Mr A realised he needed to change the policyholder on one of 
the policies to Mrs A in order to retain her no claims discount. 
Mr A contacted Hastings to make the amendment and they were unable to do this without 
cancelling the policy and starting a new one. The cancellation resulted in the cancellation of 
the excess reimbursement benefit which was provided by the comparison website. 
Mr A and Mrs A complained about the loss of this benefit as they understood that everything 
would be transferred over  which they think should have included the excess 
reimbursement benefit. 
In their final response Hastings said that they have no knowledge of what incentives are 
provided by comparison websites which are exclusive to them and administered by them 
and so they cant be responsible for the loss. 
Mr A and Mrs A were unhappy with Hastings response and brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr A and Mrs As complaint and he has thought that 
Hastings had made no error and couldnt be responsible for the loss. 
Mr A and Mrs A disagreed with the investigators view and so the case has come to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings have explained that the excess reimbursement benefit was a campaign provided 
by the comparison website as a reward for using them. They had no knowledge of the 
campaign and it wasnt provided by them or part of their policy. It was provided by the 
comparison website. 
When Mr A rang Hastings directly to amend his policy, Hastings explained that they would 
have to cancel the policy that he had just taken out and incept a new one to change the 
driver name. I have listened to this call and Im satisfied that this was clearly explained to Mr 
A, and also that there was no discussion of the excess reimbursement benefit during that 
call. 
I appreciate that Mr A and Mrs A may have used the comparison website because of the 
incentive provided, and that they will understandably be upset about having lost that benefit 
as a result of the cancellation of the policy. However, I cant say that Hastings have done 
anything wrong here, as this benefit wasnt part of their policy and Mr A and Mrs A chose to 
make the amendment to the policy after it had started. 
As I cant see that Hastings have done anything wrong here, Im unable to ask them to do 
anything to compensate Mr A and Mrs A. This is really an issue between Mr A and Mrs A 
and the comparison website which is not in our jurisdiction.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr A and Mrs As complaint and so Hastings Insurance Service Limited 
dont need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman