DRN-3043057
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Ms C and Mr M say Santander UK Plc mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
Although Ms C and Mr M had a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover Mr M only  not 
Ms C. 
Other than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Ms C and Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated 
all of that information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they subsequently thought 
Santanders offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of 
high commission and profit share Ms C and Mr M paid was fair in the circumstances.
Ms C and Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Santander should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
It looks as though PPI was sold during a face to face meeting between the parties. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Ms C and Mr M told us about it, the documentary evidence 
thats available from the time, and a sample PPI application form Santander provided me 
with. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Santander made it clear to Ms C and Mr M that 
PPI was optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. It wasnt specifically 
argued by those representing Ms C and Mr M that the optional nature of the cover wasnt 
made clear. But it was contended that PPI was presented as part of a package that ran 
alongside the mortgage. However, I cant realistically say that would have been the case. I 
note that Ms C and Mr M would have had to complete a separate application form for the 
cover. If PPI was truly presented as being included in the mortgage, I think Ms C and Mr M 
would have queried why they had to apply for it separately. The evidence doesnt suggest 
they did. On balance, I think its more likely they knew they could have refused the cover if 
they didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale because I can see how it would have reasonably 
appeared to Ms C and Mr M that Santander recommended this cover to them after taking 
account of their personal circumstances. So, Santander had to check that the PPI was 
suitable. To help me decide whether the cover was right for Ms C and Mr M, Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what we know about Ms C 
and Mr Ms circumstances at the time. 
As I said above, the PPI was set up to cover Mr M only. So if he was off sick from work or if 
he was made redundant, the mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 12 
months for each claim. I understand Mr M wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay from his 
employer, and that he didnt have any other means with which to repay the mortgage if he 
was out of work. I must stress that the mortgage was secured on Ms C and Mr Ms home, 
and so it could well have been at risk if Mr M wasnt working. So I can see how PPI could 
have been useful to Ms C and Mr M if he was out of work. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys exclusions would have affected Mr Ms 
ability to make a successful claim. I can see that he told us hed suffered a broken ankle in 
1979. But the evidence before me doesnt suggest that condition was ongoing 23 years later 
when this cover was sold. So I cant reasonably say that this injury would have affected the 
suitability of the PPI policy. 
Mr M was eligible for the cover and I havent seen anything unusual about his employment 
circumstances that would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he 
needed to. All in all, Im satisfied the PPI was suitable for Ms C and Mr Ms needs. 
Nevertheless, Santander still had to provide Ms C and Mr M with enough information about 
the cover so they could decide whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its possible 
the information Santander gave Ms C and Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that they chose to take the policy out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms C and Mr M as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what its likely they reasonably thought it was. The evidence 
before me doesnt suggest it was unaffordable. So as I said above, it could have been useful 
for them if Mr M was out of work. Because of this I dont think Ms C and Mr M would have 
declined the cover had Santander given them more or better information about it. 
The representative contended that Ms C and Mr M would not have wanted the cover if the 
exclusions around back problems and mental health conditions had been explained. But 
there were no such exclusions contained in this policy and so the representatives 
arguments on this point are, in my view, misconceived. 
In summary, I consider that Ms C and Mr M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could have provided a useful benefit in a difficult time if Mr M wasnt working. I also think the 
policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought it was. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, which 
it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C and Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Ms C and Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share 
they paid in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Ms C and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Santander didnt disclose the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms C and Mr M 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary they have said Ms C and Mr M should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Santander failed to tell Ms C and Mr M about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms C and Mr M 
wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the high level of 
commission before the policy was sold.
So, taking into account: - The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt 
have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Ms C and Mr M paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Ms C 
and Mr M with the policy Ive concluded above would still have taken out if Santander had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Santander has already paid Ms C and Mr M compensation on this basis, I dont consider 
it should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Ms C and Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman