DRN-3758157
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
Miss S noticed a large number (about 42) of cash withdrawals had been made from her 
savings account that she didnt recognise. Miss S explained she only noticed these when 
she had to change her personal identification number (PIN) because shed forgotten the 
original one. When she saw the available balance, she realised that funds had been 
removed without her knowledge and spoke to HSBC about them.
Initially she was only aware of about half of these transactions because she hadnt reviewed 
earlier statements. Once she obtained them, she saw numerous other cash withdrawals 
from automated teller machines (ATM) that she hadnt made. 
Miss S notified the police and Action Fraud about her loss and told HSBC that she still had 
her card and hadnt let anyone else use it. She also confirmed the PIN wasnt written down 
and when the card wasnt in her purse, it was kept in her safe at home.
Miss S couldnt understand how the disputed transactions had happened and was told by 
the police that it may have been cloned (copied). HSBC told Miss S that all the transactions 
were made with her genuine card and used her PIN to make the withdrawals. HSBC knew 
this because the ATM recorded that it had read the unique chip contained in the card, so it 
couldnt have been cloned.
Miss S told HSBC that she lived with her partner and a small child and couldnt think who 
would have been responsible for using her card. HSBC declined to make any refund to Miss 
S because she had retained possession of her card. There was no explanation of who could 
have made them using it with the correct PIN. A few weeks later Miss S told HSBC she now 
believed it was a close family member who was responsible, whod admitted visiting her 
property and removing the card when an opportunity rose. HSBC were told that this person 
was able to acquire the PIN when shopping with Miss S. HSBC continued to decline Miss S 
a refund. 
Miss S brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review about how HSBC had handled her situation. Miss S believed she was due a refund 
because she hadnt authorised the disputed transactions.
After reviewing the evidence provided by both parties, our investigator didnt think HSBC 
should make a refund to Miss S. He thought it was likely that Miss S had authorised these 
transactions and didnt uphold her complaint. Miss S disagreed and asked for a further 
review of her complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that HSBC can hold Miss S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
HSBC can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss S authorised the 
transactions, but HSBC cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless HSBC can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
In numerous conversations held with HSBC, Miss S was adamant that no one else had 
access to her card or knew the PIN. She told HSBC that she kept it with her either in her 
purse or locked in her safe. HSBCs evidence demonstrates that all the disputed 
transactions were made with the genuine card, so on the face of it, its difficult to see how 
anyone could gain access to it to make the 42 withdrawals, which were spread out over 
almost two years.
It was only after HSBC turned down Miss Ss initial claim that she updated her version of 
events and believed it was a close family member who was responsible. My understanding 
of the domestic arrangements is that this person wasnt living with Miss S but would visit her 
home. Shes said that the close family member admitted to taking the card and memorising 
the PIN when Miss S used her card. 
Miss S herself told HSBC that this account was used mainly for savings, which apart from 
the ATM withdrawals, shows only a few transactions coming from it. In order for this close 
family member to observe the PIN it would require them be with Miss S when she was using 
it. Looking at the activity on the account, there was a cash deposit using a paying in machine 
which would require the PIN made the day before the first disputed transaction, so if this 
person was with Miss S , then its plausible they obtained the PIN at that point.
Whilst I think it would be plausible for Miss Ss card to be taken on a few occasions, I do 
think that for this person to obtain the card on 42 occasions and return it to Miss S without 
her being aware is unlikely. Miss Ss repeated testimony to HSBC described how the card 
was kept with her or in the safe. So, it would appear to be quite difficult to repeatedly visit the 
home and steal the card, use it and replace it under such close supervision as described by 
Miss S. 
One particular transaction stood out  on 19/12/19 there was a transaction using the card 
which wasnt reported as disputed and less than 90 minutes later an ATM withdrawal was 
made which was disputed. So, it would appear that Miss S was using her card that day and 
this person was able to take it from her, use it and replace it without her knowledge within a 
relatively short time frame. There were then no further disputed transactions for about six 
months which I found odd. If the close family member was responsible and had already 
made three withdrawals from the account  why would they stop taking the money when 
theyd already been successful?
When Ive looked at the transactions, they dont follow any particular pattern. Some months 
there arent any disputed transactions and then theres a period that shows regular use of the card, withdrawing the daily limit. The account held several thousand pounds so was 
capable of supporting these withdrawals and wouldnt raise any particular concerns with 
HSBC.
Overall, I think its implausible that the repeated removal of the card would go unnoticed over 
such a long period of time given Miss Ss control of her card. Taking everything into account, 
my objective review of the available evidence is that I think its more likely than not that Miss 
S was responsible for these withdrawals or allowing her card to be used. I dont think it 
would be fair to ask HSBC to refund these payments made from Miss Ss account.
HSBC later closed Miss Ss account, but as this didnt specifically feature as part of the 
original complaint or investigation, I havent considered it in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman