DRN-2813838
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC didnt pay enough when 
settling his claim under his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy. 
Ive referred to Amtrust all the way through this decision for the sake of ease, even though I 
know Mr P actually dealt with Amtrusts claims administrator. 
 
What happened
Mr Ps car was written off in an accident and Mr P claimed in his car insurance policy. His 
car insurer based their settlement on the market value (the replacement cost) of his car at 
the time of the accident. Mr P then claimed on his GAP policy for the difference between this 
and what it would have cost him to replace his car with a new one of the same make and 
model. 
Amtrust settled Mr Ps claim by paying the difference between what he paid for his car when 
he bought it and what his car insurer had paid. This was because they thought it would cost 
Mr P less to replace his car with a new one than it cost him to buy it originally. 
Mr P didnt think Amtrust had paid enough and complained about it. But Amtrust wouldnt 
pay any more, so Mr P asked us to consider a complaint against Amtrust. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. He didnt uphold it, as he thought 
Amtrust had settled the claim in accordance with the policy terms. So Mr P asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
The complaint was referred to me. Having reviewed it, I wrote to Amtrust and suggested they 
pay Mr P a further £1,665 on the basis it would have cost him more to replace his car than 
theyd suggested when he claimed. I also asked them to pay £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr P had experienced as a result of them not paying enough originally. I sent 
a copy of my email to Amtrust to Mr P for his comments. 
Amtrust have replied to my email and said they are willing to pay the extra £1,665. However, 
they havent agreed to pay the £250 compensation, as they dont feel enough is known 
about Mr Ps financial circumstances to show that them paying less originally impacted him 
significantly. 
Mr P commented on my email. He doesnt think an extra £1,665 is enough, as he doesnt 
think he could have replaced his car for the amount Ive suggested. He has said that Amtrust 
knowingly used examples of cars for sale that they knew werent genuine. And he thinks the 
investigator and I have overlooked this. Hes said the replacement quotation he has supplied 
a copy of, was from a dealer at the time of his claim. And he thinks the settlement amount 
should be based on this and not on the replacement cost I have obtained from one of the 
trade guides.
Mr P also doesnt think £250 is enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience Amtrusts 
failure to pay the correct amount caused him. He has pointed out that the dispute has been 
going on for around two years and he has suffered a great deal of distress as a result of 
Amtrust not paying enough.  
As neither party has agreed with my suggested settlement, Im issuing this final decision, 
which is the last stage in our process. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust were obliged to settle Mr Ps claim in accordance with the terms of his GAP policy. 
The claims settlement section said that Amtrust had to pay the difference between what Mr 
P got from his car insurer and the cost of replacing his car with a new one. And it also said 
that if the cost of replacing the car was less than the original cost, the settlement would be 
the difference between this amount and what Mr P got from his motor insurer or what was 
outstanding on Mr Ps finance agreement, whichever was higher. There was an overall limit 
of £10,000. Amtrust said the cost of replacing the car was less than what Mr P paid for it, so 
their settlement was based on what he paid for it, as this was more than the amount 
outstanding on Mr Ps finance agreement. The amount Amtrust paid was £5,895.
I dont think Amtrust got the settlement right, because I think the cost to Mr P of replacing his 
car with a new unregistered model was a lot higher than Amtrust suggested. Amtrust based 
their view on quotations from a car sale comparison site. But Im not satisfied, based on the 
evidence provided, the dealers that came up with quotes really would have sold the cars 
shown for these amounts at the time. This is because Mr P said he contacted one or more of 
the dealers and they didnt have the cars available at the prices quoted. And my research 
suggests this is most likely to have been the case. 
I think a more realistic replacement cost was £14,440. This is based on a trade guide, which 
used advertised prices at the time Mr P made his claim to show what a replacement for his 
car was likely to cost. I appreciate Mr P has provided a copy of a quote which he has said he 
got from a dealer from around the same time. However, this says the price quoted is from 
December 2018, when Mr Ps claim was in May 2019. And it doesnt show details of the 
dealer and it does not necessarily mean Mr P couldnt have replaced his car for less than 
this. So, in determining the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, I think it is 
appropriate for me to use an industry recognised guide to establish what the replacement 
cost of Mr Ps car would most likely have been.
I have also noted Mr Ps comments about Amtrust deliberately using examples of cars for 
sale that they knew werent genuine. However, I dont think this was the case. I think Amtrust 
genuinely thought Mr P could replace his car for the amounts quoted, but were mistaken. 
I also think the £250 I have suggested in compensation is fair and reasonable. I appreciate 
the matter has been going on for a long period, but Mr P had a significant part of the 
payment he was entitled to from Amtrust. And, although I appreciate his financial position 
may have meant he couldnt buy a new replacement car, its only appropriate for me to 
compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience that can be directly attributed to 
Amtrusts decision not to pay as much as it should have done. And Im satisfied £250 
achieves this.  
Putting things rightIve decided Amtrust should put things right as Ive set out above.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to pay him a further £1,665 in settlement of his claim, plus £250 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Amtrust International Underwriters DAC should do this within 28 days of us telling them Mr P 
has accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they should add simple interest to 
the extra due on his claim and the compensation at a rate of 8% per year, from the date of 
my decision to the date they make the payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman