DRN-2510541
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) provided 
him with unaffordable loans.
  
What happened
Mr S took six loans from Mutual between March 2014 and June 2018. A summary of his 
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender, can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo. of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 01/03/2014 21/01/2015 51 £500.00
2 31/01/2015 21/12/2016 102 £1,000.00
3 21/05/2016 03/01/2018 102 £1,000.00
4 10/12/2016 20/06/2018 102 £1,500.00
5 16/12/2017 outstanding 102 £2,000.00
6 23/06/2018 outstanding 102 £1,200.00
It appears that Mr S ran into difficulties repaying loans 5 and 6 and based on the information 
Mutual has provided this service, outstanding balances remains.
Mutual objected to us looking into Mr Ss first loan. This is because it was taken out more 
than six years before he complained. Mutual believes that Mr S was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, that he had cause for complaint more than three years 
before he did.
We asked Mr Ss representatives for further information about when Mr S became aware 
that he had a cause for a complaint. But Mr S failed to respond to our requests. So, he didnt 
then assess whether loan 1 was fairly lent.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mutual were wrong to approve loans 2 and 3 based on the 
information the lender gathered about Mr Ss financial circumstances. But the adjudicator 
thought that by loan 4, Mr Ss overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become reliant 
on these loans. So, the adjudicator upheld loans 4-6.
It appears that Mr S agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response Mutual provided us a 
detailed response as to why it disagreed with the adjudicator's assessment. I want to be 
clear that I've read the document in full. But in summary, Mutual said:
the checks it completed were proportionate and it gathered more information as the 
lending relationship went on, 
the loans are not high interest or expensive and weekly repayments are small so they 
should be considered differently from other lenders 
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is commonplace and not 
necessarily harmful to consumers. 
a robust assessment took place to prevent unsustainable lending, including 
consideration of the borrowing record, the level and the frequency of applications; 
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusion Mr S was 
borrowing unsustainably; 
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per 
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower number of 
loans than this, so the lending was not likely to be unsustainable;
There is no evidence that Mr S was reliant on this lending. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Mr S doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings about Mutuals objection to 
this service considering loan 1. It seems therefore that there is no longer a dispute about this 
loan. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints 
of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of 
this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont 
intend to go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. And Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint in part. I will explain the reasons for this below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mr S. 
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual 
on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions are on our website. So Im not going deal with these points at length here.
Loans 2 and 3
Around 10 days after repaying loan 1, Mr S applied for his second loan. Mutual carried out 
an income and expenditure check before approving each of Mr Ss loans. For loan 2, Mr S 
declared he received an income of £280 per week and his weekly expenditure amounted to 
£76. This left him with a disposable income of £204 a week with which to meet the weekly 
repayments of £15.19. 
However, I think Mutuals checks should have gone further for loan 2. I acknowledge that 
Mutual relied on what Mr S told it about his circumstances and that the repayments 
appeared affordable based on this information. But responsible lending is not about whether 
the loan is pounds and pence affordable. Its about the risk to the consumer of being able to 
repay what is lent, and whether the repayments are sustainable over the term of the loan.
Mr S had already been indebted for over 10 months by this point. And he came back fairly 
quickly for a new loan which was double the amount compared to what he borrowed 
previously. As Mr S was committing himself to be further indebted for two years, I think 
Mutual ought to have completed additional checks to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
afford as well as sustain the repayments over the two-year period. 
It would have been reasonable for Mutual to have verified the information that Mr S told it 
about his financial circumstances, by looking at his financial commitments on his bank 
statements or by requesting his payslips to verify his income. But I have no information from 
the lender to suggest it did this.
I acknowledge what Mutual says that Mr S received an early settlement rebate. So, it 
believes that he could not have been in financial difficulties and yet able to repay the 
agreements earlier than agreed. 
The information provided by Mutual only shows Mr S received an early settlement rebate on 
loan 2. But even if Mr S was receiving these rebates, it does not mean that the loans was 
affordable. I think this could only be true if Mr S didnt come back for further lending within a 
reasonable period. But he did, showing his need to continue borrowing so he could meet his 
financial commitments. When Mr S applied for loan 3 around four months later, he was still repaying his previous 
loan. He was again, committing himself to be indebted for another two years and the 
repayment was double the amount compared to what he had repaid previously. So, I think 
Mutual should have continued to verify Mr Ss circumstances to ensure he could meet the 
repayments sustainably, rather than rely on what he had told it. But I have no information 
showing Mutual carried out additional checks as it appears it continued to complete the 
same checks as for Mr Ss previous loans. 
In these circumstances, where our Service thinks further checks were reasonable, I would 
look to recreate the checks and consider what information the lender would have seen had it 
verified Mr Ss circumstances. But Mr S has not provided us with his bank statements or any 
information showing what his circumstances were like at the time he applied for these loans.
Therefore, I cant conclude Mutual made an error when it approved these loans, because 
although the checks werent proportionate, and shouldve gone further, there was no 
evidence that pointed towards Mr S being unable to afford these loans. 
Therefore Im not upholding loans 2 and 3. 
Loans 4-6
Mutual continued to complete the same level of checks as it did for Mr Ss previous loans. 
But by loan 4, I think an emerging pattern of repeat lending had become clear. By this point, 
Mr S had taken four long-term loans from Mutual with no real breaks in between loans. 
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 4 to 6 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it 
gathered more and more information about Mr Ss expenditure to be persuasive in showing 
the loans were affordable and sustainable. Theres no real detailed analysis of this apparent 
increasing volume of information. So, Im not clear how this argument supports that the loans 
were properly lent. Furthermore, at this stage in the lending relationship I dont think it was 
reasonable of Mutual to have relied on what Mr S declared. 
So, having looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mr S, I agree with 
our adjudicator that Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 4. I say this because:
By loan 4, Mutual ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr S had been indebted to Mutual for around 21 months. I accept the 
first loan was due to run for a period of a year, and was repaid. After this time, Mr S 
was given further lending during the two-year term of loan two. So, 21 months after 
he started borrowing, with a relatively small loan, hed been given a further two loans 
and only one of them had been fully repaid. Mr S started off with a loan of £500 and 
then he continued to borrow taking loans of between £1,000 and £1,500. Before loan 
4, when he took his largest loan to date - £1,500. This pattern in my view isnt of 
someone who is able to manage their money, this was the second loan taken in 
seven months. 
I accept that Mr Ss repayment history may have appeared good (in terms of absence 
of arrears). But the fact that he had taken a number of loans within a relatively short 
period of time, coupled with the fact that the loan amounts (and therefore the monthly 
commitments) were increasing his overall indebtedness, supports my view that Mr 
Ss indebtedness was unsustainable.I also think that it ought to have been apparent to Mutual that Mr S was unlikely to 
have been using these loans as a useful means of managing any shortfalls he was 
having  after all he was regularly borrowing over a number of years. Which would 
suggest it wasnt a short-term shortfall but a longer-term need. Especially as the loan 
amounts and total repayments werent decreasing in any meaningful way over the life 
of Mr Ss borrowing from Mutual. 
Mr Ss first loan was for £500 and loan 4 was for £1,500. So Mr S was borrowing 
three times as much to be repaid over twice the term of the first loan. In addition to 
this, Mr S had overlapping loans, meaning his commitment to Mutual was 
significantly more then what it was at the start of the lending relationship. This to me 
shows that Mr S wasnt reducing his indebtedness with Mutual and so, although he 
was repaying loans in line with the credit agreements, he wasnt actually making any 
headway into reducing his overall capital balance  because he continued to take 
further lending. 
At this point Mutual ought to have thought it was more likely than not that Mr S had 
an ongoing need for this type of credit and was dependent on it. By loan 4, I dont 
think it was reasonable for Mutual to carry on assuming that Mr S was using this 
borrowing as a means of shortfalls. It had substantial cause to investigate this further, 
but it did not.
So, based on the information Mutual gathered, for loans 4-6, the lender repeatedly lent to Mr 
S in an unsustainable manner because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended period; 
and
The length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans
As a result, I think Mutual were wrong to approve loans 4-6.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S from loan 4. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there and 
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and Mutual which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr S loans 4 to 6.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr S having made
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and
B and move to step E.D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. Mutual shouldnt
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans 4 to 6 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ss credit file. 
Mutual does not have to remove loans from Mr Ss credit file until they have been repaid, but 
Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman