DRN-3144148
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Covea Insurance plc dealt a claim he made under his commercial 
van insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Bs windscreen was damaged, and he made a claim for it to be repaired. A short while 
after the windscreen was repaired the bonnet on Mr Bs van opened while he was driving. 
This caused him to veer off the road and damage to his van. He believes the technician that 
worked on his van did not close the bonnet correctly.
Covea didnt accept it had done anything wrong, it had the van inspected and said catches 
on the bonnet were faulty. However, it later accepted it was possible the bonnet had closed 
properly because of this and acknowledged the technician did not check the bonnet catch 
had engaged. Covea said it would deal with the damage caused as a new claim, but it would 
waive that excess and not record the claim on any external database. It also said it would 
provide Mr B with a hire van while his was being repaired and waive the initial windscreen 
repair excess. 
Our investigator said it thought Covea had done enough to put the matter right. Mr B 
disagreed as he wanted Covea to take more responsibility for what had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr B, and by Covea, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Im persuaded by the reports which show the bonnet and safety catches were not 
working as intended. This was something that was unknown to Mr B and to the 
technician working on the van.
Having viewed the relevant part of the CCTV footage Im satisfied the technician 
closed the bonnet from a height any reasonable person would assume would engage 
the catch. It wouldnt have been foreseeable the catch was not engaged properly. 
This is important as it means I dont think Covea can be held fully responsible for 
what happened later.
Covea has put right the damage to the van and ensured that Mr B hasnt lost out 
because of this. It has offered a hire van, to waive the excess and not record the 
claim. So, for all intents and purposes it has been treated as if the matter never 
happened as far as his policy is concerned. I think this is reasonable.
Covea has also waived the excess on the initial claim, which was correctly 
chargeable. 
I realise it would have been very unpleasant to be driving and to suddenly have the 
bonnet come open. And I also understand Mr B feels strongly that Covea has not 
taken responsibility for what happened and how they dealt with the matter was poor. 
Overall, I dont think this matter was foreseeable to either party and as such, it was a 
very unfortunate event that happened. Having considered the actions Covea have 
taken to put right the damage and waive excesses. As well as ensuring Mr B isnt 
disadvantaged because of the further damage claim, I think Covea has acted fairly 
and reasonably in trying to put the matter right.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman