DRN-2723235
The complaint
 Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society changed the direct debit details for her
credit card account.
 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Hs complaint on 12 March 2021. I wanted to give both 
parties a chance to respond to my provisional findings and so I asked them to get back to 
me by 26 March 2021 with any additional information they wanted me to consider. 
I have copied my provisional decision below  it also forms part of my final decision on the 
case.
In 2016, Mrs H took out a credit card account with Nationwide and it gave her a credit limit 
of £750. Mrs H says she set up a direct debit to repay the full outstanding balance each 
month from her current account.
In January 2020, Mrs H noticed that there was a number of direct debit reversals showing on 
her credit card statement. These payment reversals took Mrs H over her credit limit of £750. 
It has since transpired that the monthly direct debit had been collecting from an account that 
didnt belong to Mrs H. This person realised that they were paying for a credit card they 
didnt recognise and processed a direct debit indemnity claim. The claim was successful and 
so the payment reversals were added onto Mrs Hs credit card account in January 2020.
Nationwide told Mrs H that a change was made to the direct debit details in 2017, and this is 
the reason why the direct debit started to collect from a different account. Nationwide says 
that the change was initiated by the other party and so it hadnt done anything wrong when it 
changed these details.
Mrs H says she had no idea that the direct debit had been collecting from a different 
account. She says she checked her statements regularly to ensure that she was within her 
credit limit. She saw that a direct debit was being collected each month and so she had no 
reason to believe there was a problem. Mrs H has also confirmed that she made additional 
repayments to the account when she could.
Since Nationwide has processed the payment reversals on the account, it has charged Mrs 
H interest, over limit charges and late payment charges. And it has reported this information 
to the credit reference agencies. It is also sending her notice of sums in arrears letters to 
demand repayment of the outstanding balance.
Mrs H tells us that she cant afford to repay the amount due, and she cant afford all of the 
charges Nationwide has applied to the outstanding balance. Mrs H has also expressed 
serious concerns about the security of her personal data. Mrs H is concerned that the person 
who had been paying the direct debit was known to her and she is extremely worried about 
this person knowing personal information about her.
Mrs H made a complaint to Nationwide about what had happened. Essentially, it said it 
hadnt done anything wrong, but it offered her £50 for not calling her back when it said it 
would.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs H and she upheld the complaint. She didnt think 
the error was necessarily down to Nationwide, but she also found this wasnt the down to 
anything Mrs H had done either. She said that Nationwide ought to treat Mrs H positively and 
sympathetically in this situation. And she recommended Nationwide do the following to put 
things right for Mrs H:
Refund all associated charges to the account (over limited, late payment and 
interest)
Remove any adverse impact to Mrs Hs credit report since the indemnity
Increase the credit limit to the balance and arrange an affordable payment plan with
the limit reducing each month.
Pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  this is in addition to the 
£50 already offered.
Nationwide responded to our investigator on 6 November 2020 to say it agreed that the 
steps they had outlined were fair and reasonable. But it said that it may not be able to 
increase Mrs Hs credit card limit to accommodate the additional amount that had been 
added from the payment reversals or remove the adverse information on her credit file. 
However, it said it would get back in touch to confirm this. Despite our investigator chasing a 
response from Nationwide, this service still hasnt had a response.
Because Nationwide still hasnt responded to say whether it accepts the findings of our 
investigator or not, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, Im planning on upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Both parties agree Mrs Hs direct debit information was updated without her consent or 
knowledge. This led to repayments to her credit card account being collected from a third 
partys account. While I agree with Nationwide that it might not have caused the error, its 
also clear that Mrs H didnt cause the error either. Nationwide is responsible for how it treats 
Mrs H once the error had been noticed and the payment reversal applied to her account.
I can see from looking at Mrs Hs statements that a number of payment reversals were 
applied to her account in January 2020. Mrs Hs credit limit was only £750, and so this took 
her a considerable amount over her credit limit. I havent seen any information that shows 
me Nationwide notified Mrs H of the problem before it applied the reversal, or that it told her 
shed need to reset her direct debit. I also havent seen anything to show me that it has 
attempted to offer any solution to help her repay the balance  other than asking Mrs H to 
contact the credit card team, which Mrs H says didnt provide an appropriate solution.
Instead all I can see is that Nationwide applied charges to the account for going over the 
limit, missing a payment and interest.
I dont think Nationwide has treated Mrs H fairly here. It doesnt seem fair to me that for a 
mistake that wasnt caused by Mrs H, she has been charged for going over her limit, missing 
payments, and interest on the balance. Nationwide has also reported this information to the credit reference agencies, which I cant agree is a true reflection on how Mrs H has 
managed her account.
Nationwide appear to have already agreed that it would refund the interest and charges 
associated with the payment reversals. And Im happy to see it has agreed to do this. But it 
says it might not be able to increase the credit limit on Mrs Hs account to cover the payment 
reversal amount. And it cant update the credit reference agencies.
It concerns me that Nationwide says it cant increase Mrs Hs limit to include the amount of 
the repayment reversals. It has already in effect lent her the money, as it has allowed her to 
go over her credit limit. If it wasnt happy to lend her the additional amount, then it shouldnt 
have allowed the payment reversals to go through.
Nationwide needs to come up with a solution to the problem here. It needs to come to an 
agreement with Mrs H about how she can repay the payment reversal amount, on an 
interest free basis, over a term that is reasonable to both parties.
Mrs Hs credit file also needs to be updated to remove any adverse information that relates 
to the repayment reversals. A credit file should show an accurate reflection of how someone 
has managed their accounts. And given that the issue stems from an error that wasnt 
caused by Mrs H, I dont think it is fair of Nationwide to be reporting negative information 
about her. So Nationwide needs to update the credit reference agencies and remove any 
adverse information it has recorded that relates to these payment reversals.
Its clear from the information Ive seen that this situation has caused a lot of upset and 
distress to Mrs H. This issue has been ongoing since January 2020, and I dont think 
Nationwide has done enough to help her resolve the issue  which has added to an already 
stressful situation.
Mrs H has provided both this service and Nationwide with information regarding her
relationship with the person that she thinks is the third-party who had been making payments 
to her credit card. I wont go into the details of it here, but I can understand why Mrs H 
became extremely worried that this person might have access to her account or personal 
information. Its clear that Mrs H has been through a very stressful and traumatic time 
which has only been made worse by this issue with the direct debit.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Nationwide has disclosed any information about Mrs H 
to the other party. I hope this goes some way to reassuring Mrs H. But, even if Nationwide 
havent, as Ive said above this has still been a very stressful time for Mrs H.
For these reasons, I also think that Nationwide needs to pay Mrs H compensation for the 
added distress it has caused her.
My provisional decision also explained what I thought Nationwide needed to do to put things 
right for Mrs H.
Because both parties have now had the chance to respond to my provisional findings, I will 
now proceed to make a decision on Mrs Hs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my decision to uphold this complaint. Mrs H responded to my provisional decision to say that she agreed. Nationwide didnt 
respond, and so I assume it has nothing further to add.
Because of this, I see no reason to depart from my findings in the provisional decision. 
  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I explained what I thought Nationwide should do to put things 
right. Because it hasnt responded, I have assumed it doesnt have anything further to add 
here. So Nationwide should:
Refund all interest and charges that have been accrued as a
result of the payment reversals.
Come to an agreement with Mrs H with a reasonable way to repay the
payment reversal amount on an interest free basis.
Remove any adverse information it has reported to the credit reference agencies that 
relates to the payment reversals.
Pay Mrs H £500 for the trouble and upset it has caused her  this is in addition to the
£50 it has already offered her.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I now order Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right for Mrs H by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman