DRN-2545170
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined claims she made on a 
legal expenses insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs S owns a property and insures it with a home insurance policy with legal expenses 
insurance provided by Great Lakes included as an add-on. 
After purchasing the property, she sought to make two claims on the legal expenses 
insurance, both connected to a dispute she was in with a neighbour.
The first claim was that she wanted to take legal action against the neighbour to allow 
access to a septic tank they both used. The second claim was that she wanted to take legal 
action against the vendor of the property for misrepresentation as this dispute hadnt been 
disclosed when she purchased it.
With regards to the first claim, Great Lakes initially declined cover for the claim as she said 
she didnt have any ownership of the septic tank. It then conceded that this position was 
incorrect but said that the costs of taking any legal action would be disproportionate.
Mrs S approached a solicitor who wrote to her neighbour. After this letter was sent, the 
neighbour granted access to the septic tank. Mrs S wanted Great Lakes to cover the costs 
shes incurred but it declined to do so.
Great Lakes also declined cover for the second claim. It pointed to a condition of the policy 
which excluded any claims made for the purchase of a property where the purchase had 
been started or completed before the policy came into effect.
Mrs S complained about these points to Great Lakes, and when it rejected her complaint she 
referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that Great Lakes hadnt acted 
reasonably. She thought it should pay the costs incurred by Mrs S for the first claim, and 
reconsider the second claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Great Lakes didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S made two separate claims (albeit both linked to the dispute with the neighbour), so Ill 
consider whether Great Lakes acted fairly in declining cover for each of them separately.
The dispute over access to the septic tank
Our investigator didnt think that Great Lakes position that the costs of pursuing the 
neighbour for access to the tank were disproportionate to the need for access and benefit 
gained by Mrs S was reasonable. In support of her view, she pointed to the fact that the 
costs incurred by Mrs S were relatively low and the work required by solicitors to resolve the 
matter was limited to sending a letter to the neighbour.
Great Lakes thinks its unfair to apply hindsight here. But I cant see any evidence or legal 
advice Great Lakes received to suggest why the costs of pursuing the claim against the 
neighbour would be disproportionate. So I think consideration does need to be made of the 
actual costs incurred (and work required) to satisfactorily resolve the dispute in the absence 
of anything to show what Great Lakes considered the costs would likely amount to.
Theres another reason why I think that its fair to ask Great Lakes to cover these costs and 
why it wasnt reasonable for it to conclude that the costs of pursuing the action were 
disproportionate. When Mrs S submitted her claim to Great Lakes she outlined the contact 
shed had with the neighbour. In summary, her dealings with the neighbour were cordial and 
friendly, but issues around access to the tank and other matters appear to have arisen when 
the neighbours family became involved and were in contact with Mrs S. I cant see that the 
apparent willingness of the neighbour to engage with Mrs S has been taken into account 
when Great Lakes declined cover for the claim.
In any case, I also think that Great Lakes assessment that the value of the claim was low 
because Mrs S would only require occasional access to the tank was flawed. If her right of 
access were restricted I think it could cause her significant problems, for example if the tank 
was damaged and no access was possible to repair it. That would seriously impact Mrs S 
and the use of her home.
So on balance, I think its fair to ask Great Lakes to reconsider the claim made by Mrs S, in 
accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Its most likely that, if the 
claim is accepted, the settlement will take the form of refunding Mrs S the costs she paid to 
the solicitor.
The claim against the vendor
Mrs S claim here is that the vendor of the property misrepresented during the sale as the 
dispute with the neighbour about access to the septic tank wasnt disclosed. When declining 
the claim, Great Lakes relied on the policy terms and conditions which say that theres no 
cover for claims arising in respect of any property purchased or, sale of any property that 
commenced or was completed before the commencement of this policy, [or] claims arising 
from the purchase of any property which is not the insureds principal home Theres also an 
exclusion for Incidents which occurred or existed before the commencement of this policy.
On a strict interpretation of the policy, Mrs S claim wouldnt be covered. Her claim relates to 
the purchase of her principle home, and the purchase was completed before the policy came 
into effect. But I do need to consider whether declining the claim for this reason is fair in the 
circumstances.
I think the context of Mrs S policy is important here. The legal expenses insurance is an 
add-on to a home insurance policy which Mrs S took out when she purchased the property. 
The policy cover could only start when she completed the purchase. The policy conditions 
limit cover to a principle home and exclude any claims about the purchase of that property, 
which must have happened before the policy started. If Great Lakes could rely on the 
exclusion, it would render the section of cover relating to the purchase of a property 
effectively worthless.
Great Lakes also says that Mrs S hasnt quantified what loss shes suffered as a result of the 
alleged misrepresentation and that, given the apparently improved relations between her and the neighbour, any claim would have limited prospects of success and would likely be 
disproportionate to pursue. However, I cant see that such points have been put to Mrs S, 
with her being given the opportunity to present what loss she is seeking to claim for. It may 
be that the claim doesnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success, but for Great Lakes to be 
able to fairly decline the claim on that basis, it needs to carry out a proper assessment of this 
based on evidence provided by Mrs S.
So I conclude that Great Lakes didnt act fairly when it declined cover for Mrs S claim 
against the vendor. In order to put things right, it should reconsider this claim in accordance 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, I order Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to:
Reconsider both of Mrs S claims in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman