DRN-4140172
The complaint
Mrs P says esure Insurance Limited didnt offer her enough for her written-off car when she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
esure offered Mrs P £4,590 for her car. It based the offer on the figures quoted in the 
national trade guides. Mrs P gave esure adverts showing that similar cars to hers, also 
registered in 2005, were on sale for over £1,000 more. But esure didnt increase its offer.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ps complaint. He thought esure had acted 
reasonably. He noted that the policy didnt say esure would pay the retail value of a 
replacement car, just the market value of the insured car, based on the trade guides. He said 
there was no consistency in advertised sales prices.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our view is that using the national trade guides figures is the best way of establishing a 
cars likely market value. And the definition of market value in the policy says thats how 
esure will arrive at a settlement sum. The guides figures are based on extensive national 
research thats updated regularly in order to reflect market trends. We think sales adverts 
are likely to be less reliable, as the prices quoted in them are usually negotiable  and small 
differences between what seem to be similar cars can make a real difference to their value.
In this case, esure offered Mrs P the average of three trade guide figures (a quote from a 
fourth guide wasnt available). It seems esure didnt consider her adverts or carry out any 
research to see how reliable the evidence provided by them might be. We do that, as 
although the guides are usually reliable, they may not always be right.  Occasionally, we 
think adverts make a difference to the outcome. 
Mrs Ps adverts show several cars registered in the same year as hers on sale for prices 
ranging from £5,605 to £6,995. So I can see why she thought esures offer was too low. 
Some of the adverts dont show the cars mileage (or other details are missing) so they cant 
be considered. Mrs Ps car had low mileage, at 125,000, and I think the closest example she 
has provided is for a car with a mileage of 130,000 on sale for £5,995. But there are 
examples of 2005 cars on sale with much higher mileage than that, on sale for over £1,000 
more. I think that shows factors other than mileage influence the asking prices for cars. One 
of them is simply the sellers belief about the value of their car. But issues such as the 
number of previous owners and a cars service history will also make a difference. 
The research I carried out showed several cars registered in 2005, with mileages of at least 
40,000 less than Mrs Ps car. Although the mileages of these cars were similar to each other 
- and they appeared to be similar in all other respects - their prices ranged from just under 
£7,000 to just under £10,000. Yet a 2005 car with mileage of just 15,000 more than Mrs Ps 
car was on sale for £3989. I also found three cars registered in 2007 (two years after Mrs Ps 
car) and with lower mileages than hers (between 107,000 and 117,000) on sale for £4,999, 
£4,950, and £5,795. So I dont think theres any consistency in sales prices. 
In my opinion, the significant variation in asking prices means it isnt possible to say from a 
limited number of examples what the true market value of Mrs Ps car is likely to be. As the 
trade guides data is much more extensive, I think the figures quoted in them are likely to be 
more reliable. So I dont think esure acted unreasonably in arriving at the settlement sum it 
did for Mrs Ps car.
I know Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision. The accident that led to the loss of her 
car wasnt her fault, and I can see why she believes she should be offered more, in order to 
put her back in the position she was in before the accident. But based on all the evidence 
Ive considered, unfortunately Im unable to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman