DRN-3454855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc reduced the limit on their 
Virgin One mortgage account and told them they were behind on their repayment plan. They 
said
that the reduction in the facility came at a bad time for them and was extremely distressing.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute. Mr and Mrs W have Virgin One mortgage 
 a flexible current account mortgage. In 2013, RBS told them that they hadnt reduced the 
balance of their mortgage by enough and werent on track to repay it at the end of term  
the limit was reduced by £1. In 2014, RBS then reduced the account limit by over £7,000.
Mr and Mrs W complain that RBS has gone against the terms of the mortgage they agreed 
to. They said it caused them a great deal of stress for around a year in trying to manage 
their spending so that they did not breach the reduced facility limit  along with the threat of 
further reductions each year. They also said they were nervous about using the account in 
case RBS changed its policy again, it lengthened the time it took them to recover from a 
period where they had no work, the loss of £7,000 they could have used to invest and use 
as a strategy to repay the mortgage and lost faith in the ability of RBS to treat them fairly.
The investigator thought that RBSs offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of 
points, including:
The Virgin One account was sold as a flexible mortgage and they have paid a 
higher interest rate to reflect the additional risk to the lender of this.
They can borrow up to the agreed facility at any time  and it does not have to be 
repaid until the end of the agreed term.
Theyd invested their money to use to repay the mortgage and to make their money 
work for them.
When RBS reduced the facility by over £7,000 they didnt have that money for any 
other purpose as they couldnt access it because of the reduction.
RBS has unilaterally changed the terms of the mortgage. And the offer of £800 does 
not reflect the distress they suffered.
I issued a provisional decision. My findings (which form part of this decision) were:
RBS has clarified what the purpose of its remediation scheme was. It said that Mr and Mrs 
Ws mortgage was always intended to be a repayment mortgage, where the balance 
reduced over its term. RBS said between 2012 and 2014 it took steps to contact customers 
with Virgin One mortgages on a repayment basis where they were behind the stated 
repayment plan  and in some cases took steps to enforce a reduction in its borrowing 
limits.
In 2019, RBS said that it set up a project to review whether customers, including Mr and 
Mrs W had taken unintended actions as a result of its actions. It offered Mr and Mrs W a 
total of £820.87 for any distress and inconvenience and for financial loss.
When Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage, a repayment plan was sent along with the 
mortgage offer. It set out that the mortgage was designed to be as flexible as possible  
But it also included an illustration of what Mr and Mrs W would need to pay over the term 
of the mortgage, with the balance reducing every year. Mr and Mrs W said they 
understood that they would only need to repay the balance at the end of term. But while 
the mortgage was flexible, it was never intended to be operated in that way, with no capital 
reductions  and that is reflected in the paperwork and terms and conditions. I accept that 
could have been made clearer.
The original terms and conditions stated:
7b You will from time-to-time agree with us and operate a repayment plan covering the 
facility.
So when Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage they accepted that they would from time-to- 
time agree a plan to repay the mortgage.
In November 2013 RBS updated its terms and conditions going into more detail about what 
was required regarding the repayment plan and the ability to reduce facilities.
I havent made any findings about whether the terms and conditions were changed fairly 
and reasonably. Im not sure what RBSs position is regarding that. But it seems to have 
accepted it didnt handle the balance reduction well between 2013 and 2014 and that it did 
not treat Mr and Mrs W fairly.
What I need to decide is what is a fair amount of compensation to put things right  both for 
any financial loss Mr and Mrs W have suffered and for any distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused to them.
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W have suffered any financial loss by reducing the 
balance of their mortgage. They will have saved interest on their mortgage over the 
remaining term by reducing the balance. And we dont know how the money they would 
have invested would have performed over the sae period.
RBS has compensated Mr and Mrs W for the lost interest when they prepared for the 2015 
reduction in the balance. I consider this is fair.
I also consider the existing offer of £800 is fair for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter caused to Mr and Mrs W. I accept what Mr and Mrs W have told us about their 
situation at the time in question  and the impact of this matter on them on their lifestyle. 
But bearing in mind how we look at compensation for distress and inconvenience I dont 
see how I could fairly recommend a higher amount. The £800 reflects that Mr and Mrs W 
were caused a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience over a significant 
period.
Mr and Mrs W did not respond and RBS said it had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there have been no substantive responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach different conclusions to those set out above. RBS didnt handle its attempts to arrange 
a balance reduction fairly between 2013 and 2014. But its offer of £800 for any distress and 
inconvenience that caused Mr and Mrs W and £20.87 for any financial loss is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs W (if it has not 
done so already):
£800 for any distress and inconvenience.
£20.87 for any financial loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman