DRN-4246768
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted negligently when dealing 
with his money transfers.
What happened
Mr B says in mid-November 2022 he arranged with his bank to transfer a total of £29,540.82 
split into two payments for his sons accounts that hed opened with Nationwide. Mr B says 
these funds werent received into the Nationwide accounts. Mr B says he queried this with 
Nationwide who informed him at the time it had returned the funds back to the originating 
bank. Mr B says his bank then informed him it had returned the funds back to Nationwide. 
Mr B says he was left to constantly chase both Nationwide and his own bank taking up 
significant amounts of his time involving branch visits, numerous telephone calls and 
correspondence. Mr B feels Nationwide deliberately lied to him during this process and did 
little to help locate where the funds were, and it took until 21 February 2023 until the funds 
were finally located. 
Mr B says this matter has caused him considerable stress, worry and inconvenience and has 
meant he has not been able to work properly during this period. Given that, Mr B wants 
Nationwide to apologise, accept its negligence in this matter and to compensate him for his 
loss of income, expenses incurred and loss of interest which he has calculated to total 
£18,781.80 - plus compensation for the inconvenience caused to him. 
Nationwide says it accepts it could have done more to have helped Mr B and accepts it was 
at fault for holding on to the funds as long as it did, given Mr B made multiple attempts to 
resolve matters.
Nationwide agreed to refund some of the costs Mr B incurred totalling £406.20 including loss 
of interest and would consider covering some of the other costs listed by Mr B if receipts 
could be provided. In addition, while Nationwide wouldnt agree to cover Mr Bs claim for loss 
of income, it agreed to pay him £250 for the inconvenience this matter caused him. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Bs complaint. The 
investigator felt Nationwide could have done more to locate the whereabouts of the funds Mr 
B had sent from his bank, rather than leaving it to him to continually chase for the funds. The 
investigator explained this service wouldnt look to compensate someone for their time at an 
hourly rate, rather a compensation award for the distress and inconvenience caused. The 
investigator felt given the upset this had caused Mr B, Nationwide should increase its 
compensation offer by a further £250 and pay an additional 4% interest on the missing 
funds, for the period between 15 November 2022 and 21 February 2023. 
Nationwide accepted the investigators view, but Mr B didnt agree and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and stressful for Mr B to have to continually 
chase Nationwide to establish the whereabouts of the funds he had sent to his sons savings 
accounts with Nationwide. 
When looking at this complaint given Nationwide have accepted it has made mistakes here, I 
will consider if Nationwides offer of redress to Mr B is sufficient.
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to 
repeat all thats already been said before, thats not to say I havent considered everything - I 
have. But its just that I dont need to comment on each individual point raised in order to 
reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable here.
Its worth saying Nationwide have accepted and apologised for the fact it took too long to 
locate the whereabouts of Mr Bs money transfer that he sent in mid-November 2022. I 
understand the reason the funds were originally rejected by Nationwide, was because Mr B 
had sent the funds after the deadline date for his two sons savings accounts. That however 
doesnt excuse the fact Nationwide could have done more here to locate the whereabouts of 
those monies, after all these monies, by its own admission were sitting in an internal 
suspense account. 
Mr B has provided this service with details of the lengths he went, to establish the 
whereabouts of his money transfer over a period of several weeks. Its fair to say this would 
have been a stressful and upsetting time for him and that must have been both frustrating 
and worrying for Mr B. Although Mr B feels strongly about this matter which is 
understandable, I cant say that Nationwide deliberately lied to him during this time  thats 
not to say it hasnt made mistakes here it has, and it has accepted that and apologised.
Like the investigator I dont feel Nationwides initial offer goes far enough and as a result of 
the investigators view, it has now, in addition to covering part of Mr Bs direct expenses, 
have also agreed to pay a further sum of £250 by way of compensation and an additional 
4% interest on the £29,540.82 for the period between 15 November 2022 and 21 February 
2023. 
While Mr B may not agree, as explained by the investigator, without trying to minimise the 
frustration this matter would have undoubtedly caused him here, this service wouldnt 
ordinarily consider an individuals time at an hourly rate, when considering the level of 
redress that should be paid. Its worth saying its not the role of this service to punish or 
penalise businesses, more that the business apologises when mistakes are made, matters 
are corrected, and an appropriate level of redress is awarded.
While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, given Nationwide have agreed to pay 
additional compensation, I am satisfied this is a fair resolution here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr B : an additional £250 by way of redress for the trouble and upset caused.
 an additional 4% simple interest on £29,540.82 for the period between 15 November 2022 
and 21 February 2023, less any tax that needs to be deducted from this sum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr B:
 an additional £250 by way of redress for the trouble and upset caused.
 an additional 4% simple interest on £29,540.82 for the period between 15 November 2022 
and 21 February 2023, less any tax that needs to be deducted from this sum. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman