DRN-3835190
The complaint
Mr T complains Astrenska Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes made on a 
missed event insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ill provide a summary here.
Mr T purchased some concert tickets from a retailer and took out a missed event 
insurance policy underwritten by Astrenska.
A family member  who Ill refer to as X - was due to attend the concert with Mr T but 
caught Covid and was unable to. Mr T made a claim on the policy.
Mr T didnt have the required doctors letter and so he provided a photo of a positive 
lateral flow test which he said X had undertaken. Astrenska said this didnt include a 
name or the date the test was undertaken, so it declined the claim. Mr T complained 
but Astrenskas position remained unchanged but it did offer to review any further 
medical evidence Mr T could provide. 
Mr T raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint in the absence of a doctors letter, any positive test result in Xs name or 
any supporting emails or texts. Mr T asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When claiming on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show the 
claim is covered under the terms. When an insurer relies on an exclusion to decline a 
claim, the onus is on the insurer to show the exclusion applies. Ill be considering this 
complaint in light of this principle while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. 
Astrenska relied on the following wording to decline the claim. Youre not covered 
ifDocuments requested by our claims team have not been provided and We will 
not pay claimswhere you cannot provide a doctors letter for any injury or illness.
Its accepted by all parties there was no evidence available from a doctor to support 
the claim. So, on its face Astrenska has acted in line with the terms of the policy. But, 
given the circumstances surrounding Covid and the availability of medical 
appointments at this time, Ive gone on to consider whether Astrenskas approach 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I note from Astrenskas communications with Mr T it was willing, in the absence of a 
doctors letter, to consider an official test result confirming a Covid diagnosis for X. 
This was subject to the test results confirming Xs name and the date the test was 
undertaken. This seems a reasonable approach in the unusual circumstances Covid 
presented.
Mr T provided a photo of a lateral flow test which appears to show a positive test 
result. But unlike PCR tests - which provided official results relating to a specific 
person - theres no evidence to confirm the date of the test or that the results relate to 
X. So I can see why Astrenska was unwilling to accept this as proof of a valid claim.
Our Investigator asked Mr T if he had any evidence such as text messages or emails 
relating to X catching Covid or taking the lateral flow test which might help support 
his claim, but none was available.
Having taken everything into consideration, given the lack of supporting evidence 
specific to X, Im satisfied Astrenska has acted fairly in declining the claim and I wont 
be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman