DRN-3340370
The complaint
Mr K says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K took out a 36-month instalment loan for £2,500 from Likely Loans on 25 August 2018.
The monthly repayment was £132.06 and the total repayable was £4,754.16.
He says if Likely Loans had completed proper checks it would have seen he couldnt afford
this loan. He had other debts and was already borrowing from family and friends so this loan
escalated his financial problems.
Our adjudicator said Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in
the information it gathered that should have led it to make a different lending decision.
Mr K disagreed saying the lenders checks were not thorough  it should have asked for
copies of his payslips and bank statements. Had it done so it would not have lent to him.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision  an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send in any 
comments or new information by 28 February 2022. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Mr K before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of his annual income (£29,000) and his residential status (tenant).
It asked about the purpose of the loan which was other. It also checked Mr Ks credit file. It
has shared what it says is a high-level overview of the customers financial status upon
application but adds that this represents just a small proportion of the data it gathered. From
what it has shared I can see it looked at the number of accounts Mr K had, his total credit
balance, credit score and calculated a debt to income ratio. From these checks combined
Likely Loans concluded Mr K had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the
loan.
I dont think these checks were proportionate. Based on the information it initially gathered I
think Likely Loans should have gone on the carry out a fuller financial review before agreeing
to lend. I say this because it knew from the credit check that Mr K already had around
£12,000 in unsecured debt across three accounts. Whilst he was up-to-date on his
repayments on this existing debt I think the lender ought to have better checked increasing
his debt would be sustainable. In these circumstances, and given the term of the loan, I think
it ought to have taken steps to both verify his declared income and understand his total
monthly expenditure. In the regulations that were in place at the time, CONC 5.3.1(G)
section 4) b) stated it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
I have therefore looked at what better checks would most likely have shown the lender. To
do this I have looked at screenshots of transactions from Mr Ks online banking. I have
requested full bank statements, but Mr K has not provided them to date. Whilst more
complete evidence would be preferable, the extracts have allowed me however to identify a
number of issues. So I have made findings based on the balance of probabilities, in other
words what I think is most likely given the available evidence.
The screenshots show that Mr Ks income was lower than he declared at around £1,650
each month. This means that by giving this loan Likely Loans was increasing the amount of
income he needed to use to repay debt to around 40% - a level at which I think it ought to
have realised there was a risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for him. In other
words, he would likely need to borrow to repay, or would suffer other adverse financial
consequences. And to meet its regulatory obligations the lender needed consider this, not
just the pounds and pence affordability.
Mr K said he was already borrowing from family and friends and his bank statements support
this. In July 2018 it seems he borrowed around £2,350 from family and friends so he was
clearly having problems managing his money. And there was a substantial increase in his
balance between 23 and 27 July 2018 which Mr K thinks was most likely a win from
gambling - further indicating his financial instability.
It follows I currently think Likely Loans was wrong to lend to Mr K.
I havent found evidence that Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in
some other way.
I then set out what Likely Loans would need to do to put things right if I went on to uphold the 
complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
As neither party replied to my provisional decision, I have no reason to change the findings 
or conclusion I set out in it. It follows I find Likely Loans was wrong to lend to Mr K.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr K to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to him. So he has lost out and Likely Loans needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr K made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ks loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Likely Loans should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the datethe overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ks loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, Likely
Loans should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans should
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ks complaint. Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) must 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman