DRN-3677438
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
have declined a claim for Total Permanent Disability benefit made under their self-assurance 
mortgage plan. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr H made a claim under the joint policy for Total Permanent Disability 
(TPD) benefit. He provided an occupational health report dated 8 January 2020. That report 
formed part of Royal Londons assessment of Mr Hs claim but it also arranged for an 
independent medical examination to be carried out. Mr H didnt agree to this report being 
released as he felt it contained inaccuracies and wasnt independent. Mr H and Mrs H felt 
that Royal London had enough evidence to meet the claim without this report.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that 
the evidence demonstrated the permanency of Mr Hs condition. Mr H and Mrs H provided 
further evidence from Mr Hs cardiologist which our investigator shared with Royal London. It 
didnt change its view on the claim. Our investigator considered the evidence but didnt think 
that there was enough up to date evidence to show that Mr H was unable to carry out his 
occupation.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive only included a brief summary of the background to this matter, Ive done so 
as the facts are well known to both parties. So Ive focused on the key issue here, which is 
whether the evidence shows that Mr H meets the policy definition for Own Occupation TPD 
benefit. This is defined in his policy as:
"Disabled" means that in our opinion, the life assured in respect of whom a claim is
being made is, due to disability arising before age 65, permanently unable to perform the
material and substantial duties of his own occupation as stated at the time a claim is
accepted by us.
There is no dispute that Mr H has a disability. The question that the parties disagree about is 
whether, at the time Royal London declined to meet Mr Hs claim, the evidence 
demonstrated that due to this he was unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of his own occupation. 
I recognise that Mr H and his representative Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision but I 
am not persuaded by the evidence that the initial decision to decline the claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. I make the same finding regarding the second decline in the light of further 
evidence.
I say this because the occupational health assessment dated 8 January 2020, whilst making 
it clear that Mr H was not likely to return to work in the foreseeable future was hopeful that 
there would be some improvement in Mr Hs symptoms. Mr H was subsequently started on 
new medication.
Further evidence was provided from Mr Hs cardiologist and shared with Royal London. 
Royal London didnt feel that the report told them how Mr H had responded to treatment and 
were therefore unable to determine the permanency of the symptoms or how they impacted 
on Mr Hs ability to perform his occupation. I dont think this was unreasonable.
I accept that Mr Hs condition is very likely to be permanent. His cardiologist has advised that 
treatment of symptoms is palliative rather than curative. However it doesnt automatically 
follow that this means he is unable to perform his occupation. Its reasonable for Royal 
London to require evidence of this before a claim is admitted. 
Royal London must assess the claim fairly  but as Ive indicated above it is entitled to 
consider the effectiveness of the treatment that Mr H is receiving in order to see how 
effective it is in managing his symptoms. 
Although Mr and Mrs H felt that there was enough evidence to demonstrate that Mr H met 
the policy criteria, this is for Royal London to determine. This is evident from the policy term 
 which says in our opinion. I do recognise the frustration on the part of Mr and Mrs H, 
particularly as this is a decreasing term policy. But for the reasons given above I dont find 
that Royal London treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in declining the claim when it did. 
I understand that my response will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H but its clear that this is 
not the end of the claim process for them and I note that they accept this. My decision only 
goes as far as the first claim decline and the comments made in respect of the further 
cardiology evidence. And it is based on that evidence that I dont uphold this complaint.
I see that Mr H is willing to undergo a further occupational assessment and of course Royal 
London will review that evidence and any other evidence submitted in support of the claim. If 
Mr H remains unhappy with the final response at that stage, he can complain further to this 
service. But we will not reconsider the initial decline.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman