DRN-1696895
 
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card PPI (payment 
protection insurance) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs S took out with a store card in 1998. It was added to 
her account when she applied for the card in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S has said the PPI was added without her knowledge but AXA has said the optional 
nature of the policy was made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application form 
completed at the time of the sale and I can see that there is a section for the PPI under the 
title account cover. Mrs S has signed separately from the rest of credit agreement within 
that section for PPI  which I think indicates she wanted it. If she didnt want PPI she didnt 
have to sign for it and could have left it blank. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think AXA made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs S 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
From looking at the paperwork supplied, I dont think AXA recommended the policy to Mrs S. 
So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But AXA did need to make sure it 
gave Mrs S clear enough information about the policy to enable her to decide for herself if 
she should take the policy. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if AXA had given her better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken out the policy. 
Mrs S has said she would have received up to six months sick pay from her employer at the 
time if she was too ill to work. However, this policy would have paid out 15% of the outstanding account balance until Mrs S returned to work or the account was cleared. This 
would have been in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay that Mrs S would 
have received. And the policy would have provided cover if she was to lose her job. So I still 
think the policy could have been useful to her.
So overall, when taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs S has lost out as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman