DRN-4433565
The complaint
Ms S complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited, trading as H & T Pawnbrokers, did not 
offer her fair compensation for the loss of her pawned jewellery in a burglary.
What happened
In August 2022 Ms S pawned several items of 18 carat gold jewellery, with a total weight of 
951.54 grams. She borrowed £30,000, which she was to repay in six months, with about 
£8,161 interest. She says the jewellery was worth much more than that, and she has 
provided receipts showing that she owned jewellery worth about £83,000 in total (although I  
note that the total weight of the jewellery in those receipts is 964.43g; the difference has not 
been explained).
In November the relevant branch of H&T was broken into and some pawned goods were 
stolen, including all of Ms Ss jewellery. Ms S had not insured it. H&Ts own insurance policy 
only covered the value of the loan.
H&T therefore cancelled the loan agreement with nothing for Ms S to pay. It also offered her 
two options to choose from. The first option was that H&T would replace her stolen jewellery, 
but it later told her that this had proved to be impossible. The second option, which still 
remains open, was to pay her the market value of 951.45g of 18ct gold, which on the date of 
H&Ts offer was £35,866. When combined with the waived loan balance, this offer comes to 
a total of £74,026.
Ms S did not accept that offer. She said that she should get the full value of the lost 
jewellery, because the value of the gold alone would not be enough to cover the cost of 
having the jewellery replaced, which would include the cost of design and workmanship. 
Also, some of the jewellery had contained stones, the cost of which was not included in 
H&Ts offer. Ms S said that the jewellery had had sentimental value, and so she should be 
compensated for her distress at losing it. She said the waived interest should not be counted 
towards her compensation total. She referred this complaint to our service.
H&T argued that its offer was fair. It said that under its terms and conditions, the onus was 
on its customers to insure their goods. It said its only obligation was to write off the loan, and 
that its offer went far above and beyond that. (H&T also pointed out that in her complaint 
form Ms S had told us that she would be willing to accept £60,000 in settlement of her 
complaint, but I think she meant in addition to the loan being written off.)
One of our investigators considered this complaint. She did not uphold it. She did not agree 
with everything H&T had said, and pointed out that H&Ts terms and conditions said that if 
pawned goods were permanently lost then its liability would be limited to their market value. 
But she said there was no recent or clear evidence of what the jewellerys market value 
really was. She decided that H&Ts offer was fair, and that the true cause of Ms Ss 
misfortune was the burglar.
In response, Ms S provided new valuations of the jewellery from the original suppliers, dated 
October 2023. These showed that the total value had not changed much. But the 
investigator did not find this new evidence to be persuasive, and so she did not change her 
mind. She referred this case for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. But because my reasons are different to my colleagues, 
I have written a provisional decision so that Ms S has an opportunity to comment on them.
I have taken into account what the law says about this unfortunate situation. I referred to 
Chitty on Contracts (35th edition), in which paragraph 36-129 says:
The pledgee, since he has possession of the thing pledged, is liable for 
failure to take reasonable care of it; if it is stolen from him he will be 
discharged from liability if he can show that he took ordinary care of it.
A footnote to that paragraph refers to a traders obligations under section 49 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, which requires a trader to provide a service to a consumer with 
reasonable care and skill.
H&Ts terms and conditions appear to have been drafted with this rule in mind. In paragraph 
2(a), it says:
the Pawnbroker will take reasonable care of the Property. The 
Pawnbroker is not under an obligation to take any special care of the 
Property
This means that a pawnbroker will only be liable for the theft of pawned goods if the theft 
occurred because of its negligence. In the absence of clear evidence of what happened to 
lost or missing goods, negligence may be presumed unless the pawnbroker proves that it 
took reasonable care of them,1 but in this case there is no dispute that the branch was 
broken into and burgled. So Im satisfied that there is no evidence that H&T was negligent.
I therefore find that H&Ts offer goes further than its legal obligations require it to do. On that 
basis, I think that its offer is fair.
I am currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms S reluctantly accepted my provisional decision, and said she wanted to accept H&Ts 
offer. I have therefore not waited for H&Ts reply. There is no reason for me to depart from 
my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Ms S and Harvey & Thompson Limited to arrange the settlement of H&Ts offer 
between them.
1 Houghland v. R. R. Low (Luxury Coaches) Ltd [1962] 1 QB 694.(Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.)
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman