DRN-3172931
Complaint
Miss R is unhappy that MoneyGram International Limited didnt do more to protect her when 
she was the victim of fraud.
Background
Miss R was looking to buy a puppy for her daughter. She found an advert online and made 
contact with the person who had posted it. Unfortunately, the individual she contacted wasnt 
a legitimate breeder but a fraudster. She was told that the dog was overseas but that it could 
be transported to the UK at her expense. She was given fake information regarding a flight 
that the dog would be transported on.
Miss R made payments to the scammer to cover the purchase price of the dog, the cost of 
transportation and an insurance policy. In total, she transferred £670. She did this using 
MoneyGrams money transfer service and made those funds available to a specific recipient 
at a location overseas. When the puppy didnt arrive, Miss R realised that she must have 
been the victim of a scam and so she notified MoneyGram. MoneyGram rejected her 
complaint. It said that:
Miss R had given MoneyGram an instruction to make funds available to a specified 
person. Its records show that the funds were collected by that person and so 
fundamentally, it carried out her instruction.
There were detailed warnings at the top of the form Miss R wouldve needed to 
complete to send money to the scammer.to the scammer.
Miss R was unhappy with the response from MoneyGram and so she referred a complaint to 
this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said 
that MoneyGram couldnt have been expected to recognise that Miss R was at risk of fraud 
because the payments she made werent particularly unusual. The Investigator also said that 
there was nothing it couldve done to help recover Miss Rs money because, by the time she 
notified MoneyGram of what had happened, the funds had already been collected.
Miss R didnt agree the Investigators opinion, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Theres no question that Miss R was taken advantage of by a cruel and cynical scammer 
and she has my sympathy for that. But the question I have to consider is whether its fair and 
reasonable to say that MoneyGram shouldve seen the risk of fraud and prevented it and 
therefore pay her a refund of the money she lost.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the transaction. Ive 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Good industry practice required MoneyGram to be on the lookout for payments that might 
indicate that a customer is at risk of fraud. However, I agree with the Investigators 
conclusion that it wouldnt have had any reasonable basis for intervening to question these 
payments. There was nothing about them that couldve indicated that Miss R had been 
targeted by scammers. They werent particularly large and its not unusual for users of 
MoneyGrams service to transfer sums of around this size. In addition to that, MoneyGram 
only handles international payments so the fact that this payment was destined for a 
recipient outside of the UK wouldnt have seemed unusual either.
Unfortunately, MoneyGram couldnt do anything to assist with the recovery of funds 
because, by the time she told them what had happened, the funds had already been 
collected by the scammer. 
Overall, while I sympathise with the position that Miss R has found herself in, Im not 
persuaded that MoneyGram has done anything wrong here and so I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to ask it to pay her a refund.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman