DRN-3784184
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how long it took Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) to 
complete his bed and ISA request. He says that it took too long, resulting in the unit price 
increasing prior to the repurchase of units and causing a financial loss. It also meant Mr R 
wasnt invested on the ex-dividend date.
What happened
IISL say a Bed and ISA request was submitted by Mr R on 7 April 2021. This is a request to 
sell units in a fund outside of an ISA (held on IISLs platform) and then use the proceeds to 
repurchase units in the same fund, within an ISA wrapper. 
The purchase of units took place on 13 April 2021. By which point, Mr R says that the unit 
price had increased, meaning fewer units could be bought and causing a financial loss. He 
was unhappy with the amount of time it had taken, lack of updates and the fact that he 
wasnt invested on the ex-dividend date of 8 April 2021. Meaning he didnt qualify for the 
next dividend. He wanted to be compensated for the loss. 
IISL said that they didnt give any expected timescales for this transaction and made it clear 
that due to the time of year, things were taking longer to complete. They said they hadnt 
made any error and the time it took was dependent on how quickly it took the sale to settle at 
the third-party fund manager. 
Our investigator looked into it and also felt that IISL hadnt made an error. He said the time 
taken in the circumstances was reasonable for such a transaction. He didnt feel that IISL 
had made an error and said they had not given an expected timescale for completion. 
Mr R remained unhappy. Amongst other points, he said that he didnt think the time taken 
was reasonable and that he could have completed it himself, quicker, as two transactions.  
As no agreement could be reached, it has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr Rs request involved IISL firstly, as the platform manager, requesting the investment 
manager to place a sell of units. IISL would then require the proceeds of that sell to be 
returned before the repurchase of units could take place, within an ISA wrapper. 
I havent seen anything to suggest there was an error here. Whilst I understand that Mr R 
would be frustrated that the unit price increased as much as it did between the sale and the 
purchase, this is the risk involved with such a transaction. It was completed within four 
working days and that is within what I would consider to be a reasonable timescale. 
Mr R has said this was longer than he expected. However, I havent seen anything from IISL 
that they suggested it would be quicker than this and they have been clear in the 
communications that I have seen. They have provided a screenshot which they say Mr R 
would have seen when he was completing the transaction. This said, Time: Due to the 
volume of instructions at the start of the tax year and market conditions, these are taking 
longer than expected to complete. Please bear with us. 
They have also said that Mr R was told within a secure message when he chased the 
transaction on 9 April 2021, that they were currently taking longer than three days. I am 
satisfied that IISL did enough to make Mr R aware of the time that it was taking, due in part 
to it being the start of the new tax year. 
I therefore cant hold IISL responsible if Mr Rs expectation of how long this might take was 
not met. IISL carried out the transaction as requested without error, and within a reasonable 
timeframe. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman