DRN-3308761
The complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited avoided his life and 
critical illness assurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 16 July 2021 Mr H applied for life and critical illness cover - through a third-party broker 
who Ill refer to as R  with Legal and General. In the application Legal and General 
received, Mr H disclosed that hed suffered from anxiety and stress that required hospital 
admissions with the last inpatient stay being 20 years ago. Legal and General accepted the 
application albeit at a higher premium. 
Upon reviewing the policy documentation, Mr H told R that hed found a correction needed in 
respect of his medical history. That being a consultation he had with a consultant psychiatrist 
earlier that year  which he said he explained to R when applying for the policy. R then 
passed the information on Legal and General. 
After reviewing this additional information about Mr Hs medical history, Legal and General 
wrote to him on 19 July 2021 saying that they needed some further information from his GP. 
And once this was received they would re-assess the application. They explained they may 
need to change Mr Hs policy or cancel it.
Legal and General wrote to Mr H on 13 August 2021 saying theyd received everything they 
needed to make a decision on his application. They explained that now they knew the full 
extent of Mr Hs mental health condition, they werent able to offer Mr H any cover. 
Mr H complained to Legal and General about his policy being avoided but Legal and 
Generals position didnt change. In short, they said:
If theyd been aware in the initial application that Mr H had a psychiatric consultation 
four months before applying, they wouldve requested a medical report from his 
doctor and then declined to offer cover. 
When making their decision, they took into consideration a number of factors 
including the length of time Mr H had experienced symptoms, the severity of the 
symptoms and the treatment hed been given. 
The cover they offered was based on inaccurate information, so the cover was not 
valid. If theyd allowed the policy to continue on incorrect acceptance terms its 
unlikely they wouldve paid out in the event of a claim. 
They avoided the policy and refunded the premium(s) Mr H had paid.
Mr H referred the complaint to our service but out investigator thought Legal and General 
had acted fairly by avoiding the policy. In short, she said:
She understood Mr Hs dissatisfaction at the policy being cancelled after he received 
confirmation from R that the application was accepted and cover was in place. But 
she explained Legal and General accepted the application without full knowledge of 
Mr Hs medical history.
Shed looked at Legal and Generals underwriting guidelines and, had Mr Hs full 
medical history been disclosed in the initial application, then they wouldnt have 
offered cover to Mr H. So, she thought it was fair for the policy to be cancelled  as if 
it never existing  and premiums refunded.
R are a separate firm to Legal and General and applied for cover on Mr Hs behalf . 
Legal and General considered the application based on the information they received 
from R. So, although Mr H says he informed R of the consultation he had with the 
consultant psychiatrist, it wouldnt be fair to hold Legal and General responsible for 
something they werent aware of. 
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs dissatisfaction about his policy being avoided, particularly given that he 
received confirmation from R that his application had been accepted. I realise this has been 
a frustrating experience for Mr H which has caused him unnecessary stress. However, what 
I must consider here is whether Legal and General acted fairly by avoiding the policy. I know 
this isnt the outcome Mr H is hoping for but, for similar reasons to our investigator, I think 
they have and Ill explain why.
Mr H has explained that, upon receiving the policy documents, he noticed his medical 
information wasnt entirely accurate. So, he contacted R about this for it to be corrected. Ive 
reviewed the initial application form as well as Legal and Generals internal records showing 
the amendment request they received - after the policy was accepted  in relation to the 
psychiatrist consultation. Having done so, Im satisfied that Legal and General werent aware 
of the consultation before they accepted the policy application.
I understand Mr H says he informed R about this psychiatrist consultation and so questions 
why they neglected to inform Legal and General about this given its importance. At this point 
Id like to explain, as our investigator did, that R werent working as a representative or on 
behalf of Legal and General. Instead, in their capacity as a broker, they were applying for 
cover on behalf of Mr H. This means that Legal and General isnt responsible for Rs actions 
 including if they failed to complete the application correctly based on what Mr H told them 
about his medical history. 
Legal and General could only consider Mr Hs application based on the information they 
received. And, as Ive established, Im satisfied they werent aware of the psychiatrist 
consultation before they accepted the policy application  which is known as a 
misrepresentation. Ive therefore looked at the actions they took when they found this out.  The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA explains what remedies are available to an insurer when a 
misrepresentation is considered qualifying. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the 
insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if not for 
the misrepresentation.
Legal and General has provided their underwriting criteria which shows, had the psychiatrist 
consultation been disclosed within the application, they wouldve sought further information 
from Mr Hs GP. And that, upon receipt of this information, they wouldnt have offered cover 
at all. This means Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Ive therefore 
looked at the actions Legal and General can take here in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Both classifications however allow an insurer to avoid 
the policy when, had the correct information been disclosed in the application, cover wouldnt 
have been offered. The difference between the classifications though is that premiums 
should be refunded for careless misrepresentation whereas they can be retained by the 
insurer if classified as deliberate or reckless. Given Legal and General has refunded the 
premiums, Im satisfied theyve provided Mr H the most favourable remedy under CIDRA. I 
think this is fair. 
I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly that his policy shouldnt have been avoided as his 
application was accepted - with confirmation given by R at the time, policy documents being 
sent to him and a premium payment(s) taken from his bank account. I also have no reason 
to consider Mr H applied for the policy in anything but an open and honest manner  
evidenced by his actions in correcting his medical history. But, while I accept Mr H applied 
for cover in good faith as he wanted to take steps to protect his future, Im satisfied Legal 
and General was entitled to avoid his policy in accordance with CIDRA.
On a final note, I understand Mr H is unhappy with the length of time it took Legal and 
General to respond to his complaint. Hes provided us with a copy of a letter he sent to Legal 
and General dated 8 September 2021 in which he sets out his dissatisfaction with the 
avoidance of his policy. Legal and General provided their response to his complaint on 
10 December 2021. And so, he says it took 13 weeks for them to respond to his complaint 
which is more than the eight-week regulatory period allowed. 
I understand Mr Hs frustration at how long it took to receive a response about the avoidance 
of his policy. I realise this was a very important matter to him and so it wouldve been 
concerning that the cover he wanted in place had been removed. That said, I think 
Legal and General had made their position clear in that they were unable to offer him cover. 
So, Mr H was free to seek alternative cover elsewhere if he wished at that time. And, 
although it took some time for Legal and General to respond to the complaint, I havent seen 
anything to show Mr H chased Legal and General during this time as a matter of urgency. 
Im therefore not persuaded that any further action needs to be taken.
I realise Mr H will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I think 
Legal and General has acted fairly by avoiding the policy. I therefore dont think they have to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman