DRN-4029777
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the delays he experienced when trying to 
claim on his critical illness cover (CIC) insurance policy he had with 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) after he suffered a 
stroke in December 2020. 
What happened
Mr L was self-employed and held a CIC policy with L&G. In       
December 2020 he suffered a stroke and in January 2021 made a claim 
against his policy. He experienced considerable delays in the claim 
being settled which left him out of pocket. And he had to use his £10,000 
of savings and was unable to pay his monthly pension contribution. 
Mr L complained to L&G about the delays. It responded on 23 July 2021;
The reasons for the delay were explained to him.
It accepted the service he had received wasnt up to the standard 
he should have expected. 
He was offered £350 for the inconvenience and stress he had 
been caused. 
L&G did admit the CIC claim on 4 November 2021, and it was paid on    
8 November, but Mr L was still unhappy with the delays he had 
experienced and the financial impact that had on him. He complained 
again. L&G responded on 24 November 2021;
It recognised the delays and upset that Mr L was caused but it 
couldnt agree the claim any earlier than it did as despite 
numerous requests his doctors didnt provide all the necessary 
information until 29 October. 
But it did accept it hadnt called him back when it should have 
done, and he had experienced unnecessary delays. 
It offered him £200 for the trouble and upset he had been caused. 
Mr L remained unhappy with the outcome and brought his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the 
complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
She recognised that L&G had caused some of the delays in the 
actual assessment of the claim.
It wasnt unusual to see specific criteria in place for a CIC claim 
and while the medical evidence supplied suggested Mr L had 
suffered a stroke, it wasnt enough to confirm the clinical 
symptoms required by that definition.
The hospital discharge letter confirmed he had suffered a transient 
ischaemic attack which was excluded from the CIC.  
As a result, L&G sought further information but there was a delay 
in that being provided. The investigator found again there was a 
delay between all the relevant information being received on       
11 October and the claim being paid. 
She concluded L&G was partially at fault because of the delays it 
had caused but the investigator thought the £550 already offered 
and paid was sufficient. 
Mr L didnt agree with the outcome. He explained the financial difficulties 
he had found himself in and had to rely on family to support him. He 
couldnt reinstate his pension and had to take his van off the road to 
save costs. He thought he was due additional compensation because of 
this.
This didnt change the investigators view. As the complaint remains 
unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator 
and broadly for the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
I should first like to say that I am sorry to learn of Mr Ls poor health and 
I hope that he is recovering as well as he can. 
I can understand Mr Ls frustration at the delays he experienced. Mr L 
was self-employed, so the money was needed as he was no longer able 
to work. He told us another insurance policy he held had already paid out a on a successful claim. He had been told he had suffered a stroke 
and couldnt understand why L&G was not admitting his claim. 
However, I also appreciate that L&G and  its own reinsurer  needed to 
be sure it is paying out on a valid claim. I note L&G detailed its own 
definition of a stroke and in its letter of 23 July 2021 it explained that the 
medical information it had so far received didnt fulfil that criteria. And 
Ive borne in mind the discharge note recorded that Mr L had suffered 
from a condition  transient ischaemic attack  that was specifically 
excluded from the CIC policy. 
So, bearing in mind what was reported in the discharge note and I note 
reference was made to it in other medical notes I have seen, I think it 
was inevitable L&G would need to seek further evidence. I think there 
was sufficient inconsistency in the information given to L&G by the 
various practitioners to cause it to seek further evidence. It needed 
clarification where its recorded there was confusion in the information it 
had been given.
And as has already explained by L&G, its difficult to pass comment on 
the fact that Mr L had a successful claim paid out from another insurance 
policy. It cant be known what information and evidence that business 
had been provided by the medical practitioners and whether that 
satisfied its own criteria for the definition of a stroke which was more 
likely different than L&Gs.
The investigator identified the following delays she had concluded were 
L&Gs responsibility;
L&G received the claim on 7 January 2021, but it wasnt assessed 
until 26 January when it was identified more evidence was needed.
Once all the information that was needed to accept Mr Ls claim 
was received on 11 October it wasnt until 4 November the claim 
was admitted and paid out on 8 November. 
And I see from L&Gs letter of 23 July 2021 some other longer than 
expected turnaround times were also noted. But over and above those 
identified delays, the notes that L&G has provided to us for the complaint 
indicate that the other delays were caused by L&G asking for and 
chasing for information from the medical practitioners, both externally 
and internally. I can see there is a lot of correspondence on file.I have to be fair in apportioning the delays that its clear L&G was 
responsible for. And I cant see that it was responsible over and above 
any of those delays already identified. I fully appreciate that this isnt the 
outcome Mr L was hoping for. He had to wait 11 months to have his 
claim successfully paid out. And during that time, he was struggling with 
his finances as well as his health. 
So far L&G has already offered and paid Mr L a total of £550 for the 
delays and inconvenience he has suffered. And like the investigator, I 
think that sum is a fair reflection of the inconvenience and upset that    
Mr L was caused which was attributable to L&G. And it is in line with an 
award I would make in similar circumstances. So, I wont be asking L&G 
to do anything more. 
I am sorry to hear of the circumstances that Mr L has found himself in. 
But taking all of the above into account, and in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I wont be upholding it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman