DRN-2374353
The complaint
Mr E complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages unfairly instructed 
Law of Property Act (LPA) receivers to manage his buy-to-let property. He says that it also 
made him pay an unfair amount to have the receivers removed.
What happened
Mr E has a buy-to-let mortgage with Rosinca. The mortgage fell into arrears. In September 
2019 Rosinca appointed LPA receivers. Mr E considers that Rosinca acted prematurely and 
should have done more to engage with him before taking this action.
When Mr E found out that receivers had been instructed, he contacted Rosinca to see what 
he could do to have them removed. After referring to an underwriter, Rosinca told Mr E he 
would need to pay the receivers fee, clear the arrears and pay a lump sum to bring the 
mortgage balance down to the originally agreed amount  the total amount payable was over 
£7,000. Mr E considers that Rosinca arrived at that figure as a way to punish and bully him 
for challenging its decision. But he paid that amount to take back control of the property.
Mr E adds that Rosincas service has been slow and unhelpful. He said it wanted him to wait 
eight weeks for a response.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr E didnt accept what she said. He made a number of points, including:
He didnt contact Rosinca because he was trying to deal with his situation and pay the 
mortgage.
Other mortgage lenders did not appoint receivers in similar situations.
The requirement to reduce the mortgage balance was not in the terms and conditions, so 
Rosinca cant enforce it. The underwriter acted unfairly  Rosinca should have a process 
they should follow in situations such as these.
The balance had increased for legitimate reasons over the years
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
appointment of receivers
Mr Es mortgage had been in arrears since 2017. At the time the receivers were appointed in 
September 2019 the mortgage was more than four months in arrears. I can see that Rosinca 
wrote to Mr E about the arrears on many occasions. It also tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr 
E by phone to discuss the arrears. I understand why Mr Es reasons why didnt speak to 
Rosinca for some time. But dealing with arrears is usually a two-way street. There is little a 
lender can do if a borrower chooses not to communicate with it.
Rosinca eventually spoke to Mr E in July 2019. After getting information about Mr Es income 
and expenditure, Rosinca agreed to accept the monthly payment and £100 a month from 
July 2019. But Mr E did not make any payment that month.
Overall, I consider it was a fair decision for Rosinca to appoint receivers when it did. In the 
circumstances, it was reasonable for it to believe there was little chance of the mortgage 
getting back of track  there was a lack of communication from Mr E and he did not stick to 
the plan that had been agreed. And in view of the level of arrears it was entitled to appoint 
receivers under the terms and conditions of the account.
removal of receivers 
Rosinca was under no obligation to agree to remove the receivers from the account once 
they had been appointed. But it acted reasonably in considering Mr Es request to have them 
removed. I wouldnt expect it to have something in its terms and conditions should that 
scenario arise. It was fair and in line with good practice to refer Mr Es request to an 
underwriter to consider his individual circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr Es feeling that he has been treated unfairly. But I havent seen any evidence 
to show that he has. It was for Rosinca to decide the terms on which it would agree for the 
receivers to be removed. And in my experience what it did was not out of line with what other 
lenders might do in the circumstances. It was for Mr E to decide whether to accept the terms 
offered by Rosinca or not. But as it was a legitimate commercial decision that was made 
fairly then it is not something that I would interfere in.
I note that although the receivers were appointed by Rosinca, they were acting as agent for 
Mr E. So he would need to complain to them directly about any fees it charged. As Ive 
already found that it was fair and reasonable for Rosinca to appoint receivers, it was entitled 
to pass on the receivers fee.
Rosinca has explained that it has eight weeks to respond to complaints under the rules set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. That is correct. And in any event Im not able to consider 
how Rosinca dealt with his complaint.
Mr E made the lump sum payment to Rosinca on 30 September 2019. So Rosinca was able 
to review the situation and decide what it wanted for the receivers to be removed within a 
month. I consider that is a reasonable timescale in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman