DRN-3643637
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Tesco Personal Finance (TPF) rejected his claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in May 2014. He used a TPF credit card to pay most 
of the price (or possibly all of it; there is a dispute about how much it was), and so that 
business is liable for any misrepresentation by the installer under section 75. Mr C says that 
the income and savings generated by the panels have only been 38% of what the installer 
promised him at the point of sale.
Mr C first complained to TPF in 2016, but TPF did not agree that any misrepresentation had 
been made. Mr C did not pursue the matter further at the time. But in 2019, represented by a 
claims management company (CMC), he raised a second claim. When that was denied too, 
the CMC brought this complaint to our service on his behalf. It said that the installer had 
misled Mr C into believing that the panels would pay for themselves within eight years, which 
was not the case.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the sales 
documentation had not been clear, and some documents had been contradictory, and so 
Mr C had been obliged to rely on what the installers salesman had told him. He found that 
there was no evidence to contradict Mr Cs recollection, and so he accepted that the benefits 
of the panels had been mis-represented to Mr C. He concluded that TPF was liable for this, 
and that fair redress would be for TPF to refund Mr C the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the panels have generated in the eight years since, with interest on that 
refund at eight per cent a year, and another £100 for his trouble.
TPF didnt agree. It pointed out that in the original 2016 claim, Mr C had never said that he 
had been told that the system would pay for itself within eight years, or any other timescale. 
It suggested that the CMC had embellished his 2019 claim by adding this allegation. It noted 
that one of the sales documents (which supported the eight years timescale) had not been 
provided in 2016, and questioned its provenance. It asked for this case to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not intend to uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr C paid for the system with a credit card, TPF agrees that section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against TPF (the creditor) for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed against 
the installer. So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of TPF.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
Evidence
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C says that during a sales meeting he was told that the panels would pay for themselves 
after eight years. He also says that the panels have only yielded 38 percent of the benefits 
he had been promised.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
contract between the installer and Mr C, the MCS certificate, a summary of Mr Cs feed-in 
tariff (FIT) payments titled Statement of Account (which includes his meter readings), and 
two copies of a document titled Handover Certificate (PV), both dated four days after the 
sale, and each giving different figures for the estimated annual cost saving Mr C would 
derive from the panels. TPF has also provided all of the paperwork it has from Mr Cs 2016 
claim; this includes one of the handover certificates but not both.
TPF denies that Mr C was told that the panels would pay for themselves in eight years. It 
says that the FIT statements show that the panels are generating as much energy as was 
estimated at the point of sale.
The price
The contract is clear about the price of the panels. It clearly sets out that the original price 
was £10,950, and that there was a discount of £500, making the new price £10,450. Mr C 
paid £10,000 with his credit card. He does not recall how he paid for the balance, and it has 
been suggested on his behalf that the total price was only £10,000 after a further discount, 
but there is no evidence to support that and I do not accept it. (I do not think it is necessary 
for me to find out how the balance was paid for.)
I have therefore treated Mr Cs 2019 claim that he was told the panels would pay for 
themselves within eight years as a claim that the FIT income and savings, combined, would 
raise a total of £10,450 within that period.Was Mr C told the panels would pay for themselves in eight years?
In support of that claim, the CMC relies on one of the handover certificates, which says that 
there would be an annual cost saving of £1,427. £10,450 divided by that amount comes to 
about 7 years and 4 months (that timescale becomes 7 years and 8 months if the original 
price is used instead).
However, the other handover certificate gives the annual cost saving as £727:
This difference between these figures has not been explained. And apart from the figures 
shown above, I can find no other difference between the two certificates. Both documents 
bear the same reference number and, as Ive said, the same date. All of the other details on 
them (which are about the solar panels) are identical.
Our adjudicator asked the CMC whether Mr C recalled being given both documents, or being 
given any explanation by the salesman at the time, or whether he questioned it at the time. 
The answer, unsurprisingly, was that eight years later Mr C could not remember. He only 
remembered being told that the system would pay for itself and he would not be out of 
pocket.
However, it is clear to me from the evidence provided by both parties that only the certificate 
which says £727 was provided to TPF in support of Mr Cs claims in 2016 and in 2019. 
Indeed, there appears to be no trace of the certificate which says £1,427 prior to February 
2022, when the CMC sent a copy of it to our adjudicator. So TPF cannot be expected to 
have taken this evidence into account when the claims were originally brought. I also think it 
is reasonable of TPF to be somewhat sceptical of it now. I do not think it is persuasive 
evidence in support of the allegation that the salesman said the panels would pay for 
themselves within eight years.
£10,450 divided by £727 a year comes to about 14 years and four months. (That timescale 
rises to 15 years if the original price is used for this calculation.) So I am satisfied that the 
installer probably did tell Mr C that the panels would pay for themselves one day. But I am 
not persuaded that he was told that that would have happened by now, or that Mr C would 
not be out of pocket until then. Indeed, I cannot see how someone who spends between ten 
and eleven thousand pounds on a credit card could possibly expect not to be out of pocket 
for several years. So I do not propose to uphold Mr Cs complaint about what TPF made of 
that.
The handover certificate was not the only document which set out the benefit which Mr C 
could expect to receive from the panels. The contract dealt with this as well, and I think that 
I can attach greater weight to this document because it was contemporaneous with the sale. 
As Ive said, the handover certificate was produced four days later.
The contract is a one-page document, and is signed at the bottom by Mr C. It contains the 
following box:
Frankly, that is not a model of clarity. Not all of these figures have been written down clearly. 
In box j, the figure 1 has been written on a vertical printed line, which makes it hard to see. 
Worst of all, next to box k it says that the figure there was calculated by adding together the 
figures in boxes f, g and j, but those figures do not add up to the figure which has been 
written in box k. That figure is £565.88. But the figures in boxes f, g and j, which are £34.50, 
£82.28, and £241.68 respectively, add up to only £358.46. That has not been explained, and 
is probably an error, so I think it would be fair to hold TPF to the higher figure, £565.88. 
However, even using this figure, it would still take over 18 years for the panels to pay for 
themselves.
The cost of the panels, including the £500 discount, was written next to this, and is set out 
clearly.
So I am satisfied that this document, despite its shortcomings, did at least manage to clearly 
set out the price and an estimated total annual benefit figure side by side on the same page. 
The discounted price was £10,450. £565 is obviously less than one eighth of that price. So 
I dont think it is plausible that the salesman told Mr C that the panels would pay for 
themselves within eight years, at the same time as asking him to sign a contract which made 
it plain that the panels would not do that. And so I do not uphold his complaint about TPF 
taking the same view.
Was there a misrepresentation about the financial returns from the panels?
The CMC says that Mr C has not seen the financial benefits from the panels he was told he 
could expect. So I have compared Mr Cs MCS certificate with his FIT statement of account, 
and it appears that in late 2016 the panels were generating precisely 100% of the estimated 
amount of energy predicted at the point of sale.
The FIT statements show that in 2015 Mr C was paid £594.35 in FIT payments. That is more 
than the figure in box k on the contract, £565.88. The panels did just as well as in 2016 too. 
So the figure in box k is not necessarily wrong just because it is higher than the sum of 
boxes f, g and j. I am therefore not persuaded that the estimated financial returns from the 
panels were wrong.
(The FIT summary provided only goes up to 2018. I note that energy generation dropped 
down to 88% in December 2018, and I do not know why. But that might be due to something 
having gone wrong since 2016, rather than a problem which existed at the point of sale, four 
and a half years earlier. I do not have enough evidence to fairly determine why this 
happened, and neither of Mr Cs claims were about energy generation, and so if Mr C 
wishes to pursue this issue further then he should raise a new section 75 claim about it.)
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I am currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
The CMC disagreed with my provisional decision. It made the following points:
other complaints which were no different to this one have been upheld;
a script which the installers sales staff followed when cold-calling potential 
customers showed that the installer had indeed been describing solar panels as self-
funding;
a non-compliance panel of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) in 
December 2014 had found that the installer had been giving consumers false and 
misleading information, and also that some consumers had misunderstood the 
financial information they had been given;
in this case, the figures given to Mr C had not only been unclear but had been a 
mishmash plethora of figures  scribbled on the sales contract.
The CMC re-iterated that many other consumers had had a similar experience to Mr C with 
this installer, and that Mr C was adamant that he had been told the system would pay for 
itself within eight years, and he had no reason to make that up.
TPF pointed out that the telesales script does not mention that the panels would be self-
funding in eight years, or in any other period. It maintained that the contract had clearly 
compared the cost and the estimated benefit.
My findings
While I remain of the view that some of the figures in the contract can be fairly described as 
scribbled and lacking in clarity, I also still remain of the view that the crucial figures 
comparing the cost with the benefit are clear, for the reasons I set out on the previous page. 
There have been many other complaints where the evidence is similar  in which the sales 
documentation clearly set out in an accessible manner that the expected benefits would not 
be enough to cover the cost of the panels for quite some time  and which have not been 
upheld by our service. I think this complaint has more in common with those others than with 
the ones our service has upheld.
I have looked again at the telesales script. It does not give any timescale in which the panels 
might be self-funding. I also think it is important to note that it specifically refers to the 
purchase being financed with a loan, rather than being paid for with a credit card:
The Energy Trust have come up with a self-funding solar package. What this means 
is the energy Trust will provide you with the finance and the system will more than 
pay off the loan, making the system self-funding.
So while I accept that the installer did tell Mr C that the system would be self-funding, that 
has to be understood in the context that the salesman was describing a loan offer which 
Mr C ultimately declined. I have no reason to doubt that Mr C understood that he was 
making a credit card payment and not taking out a point of sale loan. So what he had been 
told by the salesman would have been superseded by that choice.
I can appreciate why the CMC has relied on the findings of the RECC compliance panel. But 
for the reasons I have given in the subsection titled Was there a misrepresentation about 
the financial returns from the panels? I still have no reason to find that the installer gave 
Mr C incorrect information about the panels or about the financial returns he could expect to 
get from the panels. So this evidence has not changed my mind.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 Richard Wood
Ombudsman