DRN-3715632
The complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited withdrew his ability to make money transfers to his 
credit card.
What happened
Mr W holds an MBNA credit card account. Hes unhappy because MBNA withdrew his ability 
to complete money transfers.
Mr W complained to MBNA. In response, MBNA said it had taken the decision based on 
information provided by the credit reference agencies and said it was unable to provide 
specific details of what the information was.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He wants to 
know what the issue with his credit file was which led MBNA to take its decision.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that MBNA had acted fairly because 
eligibility for offers was based on both internal and external information and the lender wasnt 
obliged to disclose the specific information it had obtained, nor was it obliged to disclose its 
lending criteria.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he still wanted to know the reason why MBNA withdrew his 
transfer facility. He said hed recently applied for another MBNA card and had been 
accepted with a credit limit and a transfer facility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration that he hasnt been given specific details of the reason why 
MBNA made a decision to withdraw his transfer facility. However, Im unable to say that 
MBNA has made an error in refusing to provide this information, because a lender is under 
no obligation to disclose specific reasons for its decision or its lending criteria.
In terms of what may have influenced MBNAs decision on eligibility for the transfer facility, 
there are a number of factors which impact on credit files. These could include other credit 
applications, adverse information relating to other credit commitments and credit limit 
changes. This isnt an exhaustive list but some examples of what might influence a credit 
score. 
Every lender has its own lending criteria  and even with the same lender these criteria can 
change from time to time. Therefore, its possible that one lender would reach a different 
decision from another lender using the same information from the credit reference agencies, 
or that a lender might decline an application but approve one several months later. This 
might explain why Mr W had offers from other lenders, and a recent successful application 
with MBNA. 
I can see that Mr W made changes to his credit limit a few weeks before his transfer facility 
was withdrawn. Its possible that this couldve affected his credit scire because a lower credit 
limit means that the percentage of credit utilisation increases. This could negatively impact 
on a credit score.
I understand that Mr W feels that it was a refund of interest on his account which led to the 
withdrawal of the transfer facility. I havent seen any information to suggest that this was the 
reason. I think its more likely to be a coincidence that MBNA withdrew the transfer facility at 
around the same time as the interest refund. I cant see that a refund of interest would 
negatively impact on Mr Ws credit file.
Taking everything into account and bearing in mind that MBNA acted within its terms and 
conditions when it withdrew the transfer facility, Im unable to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I 
wont be asking MBNA to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman