DRN-3754277
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Skrill Limiteds decision to close his account and retain his funds.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr H opened an account with Skrill and made deposits into it. Mr H opened a 
further account using a different email address. Following this, Skrill conducted a review of 
Mr Hs account. Skrill decided to close Mr Hs accounts with immediate effect. At the time 
Mr Hs balance was around $1,000 USD.
Skrill asked Mr H to provide a bank statement, ID document and a selfie photograph as part 
of its verification process, so that it could return Mr Hs balance to him via an account he had 
with another bank. The documents Mr H provided failed that verification check. So Skrill 
didnt release Mr Hs balance.
Mr H was unhappy about the actions taken by Skrill, so he referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by one of our investigators who said Skrill hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had closed his account. But she said that Skrill should return Mr Hs balance 
back to source or to him within sixty days. Mr H said hed be happy for Skrill to send the 
money back to where it came from  which was his friends account who also had a Skrill 
account.  
He said hes submitted various documents including bank statements and doesnt 
understand why Skrill wont release the money in the account back to him. He wants to be 
told exactly what is wrong with the documents hes submitted to Skrill. But at the end of the 
day, he just wants his money back.
Skrill said it wasnt happy to release the money back to Mr H. But said it would return the 
money to another Skrill account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Skrills decision to close Mr Hs account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a financial business must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
I know Mr H is upset that Skrill closed his account. But having looked at all the information 
available to me, including Skrills actions and the information its provided Im satisfied that 
Skrill had sufficient grounds to close Mr Hs account immediately and did so in line with the 
terms and conditions when it closed the account. So, I cant say Skrill has treated Mr H 
unfairly when it decided it no longer wanted him as a customer and closed his account.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he wants the funds remaining in his account, which is 
now just under £900 USD returned to him.  This is because Skrill deducted an administration 
fee which is set out in its terms and conditions. But I dont intend to comment on this point. 
Mr H. 
In order for Skrill to be able to release Mr Hs funds, he had to complete Skrills verification 
process. I can see that Skrill has clearly explained this to Mr H on more than one occasion 
and told him what he needed to do in order for the money in his account to be released to 
him. So, Im satisfied that Mr H understood what he needed to do in order to satisfy Skrills 
request. Im also satisfied that Skrill has these processes in place in order to comply with its 
legal and regulatory obligations when providing accounts to customers. So, I cant say Skrill 
have done anything wrong by asking Mr H to provide the documents. And withholding the 
funds in the account until Mr H was able to provide acceptable paperwork and complete this 
process as Skrill need to ensure they're complying with their obligations.
I appreciate that Mr H has supplied Skrill with a number of documents over a period of 
months. And that not having access to the funds has caused him trouble and upset. But I 
can also see that Skrill has told Mr H exactly what he needs to provide in order for the funds 
to be released to him. Skrill has also confirmed that the documents provided by 
Mr H to date arent acceptable. It was up to Mr H to provide acceptable information 
necessary in order to be sent the funds. Ive looked at the paperwork Mr H sent to Skrill, and 
I dont think it was unreasonable that Skrill refused to release the funds to him.
I know Mr H wants to know exactly what the problem was with the documents he provided 
Skrill. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may 
treat evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains information about other customers, security information or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Skrill has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able 
to share a lot of detail with Mr H, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered 
everything.
Skrill has recently offered to send the funds in Mr Hs account to another Skrill customer who 
is known to Mr H. I can see that Mr H has said he is happy for this to happen. I think this is a 
reasonable and fair course of action for Skrill to take and resolves this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened. I dont doubt it was 
a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Skrill have acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr H unfairly in taking the actions it did when it closed his account and asked him to 
provide information.
My final decision
Skrill Limited has already made an offer to send the funds in Mr Hs account to another Skrill 
customer  the details of which are known both to Mr H and Skrill. I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances.So, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Hs complaint, Skrill Limited should send the funds 
remaining in Mr Hs account to the nominated Skrill account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman