DRN-2437993
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled her claim on her car 
insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Aviva includes its agents.  
What happened
Miss Cs car was damaged, so she claimed on her policy. Aviva reviewed the claim, 
accepted it and arranged for Miss Cs car to be repaired. While it was in for repair she was 
provided with a small courtesy car as required under the policy. 
Unfortunately, there were delays with the repairs as equipment at the repairing garage 
wasnt working. Because of this the repairs to Miss Cs car took than they should have. 
While it was still in for repair the country was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and put into the 
first national lockdown. 
As Miss C was a keyworker she continued to work during lockdown and needed to carry a 
lot of equipment for work. Because the courtesy car wasnt as big as her car it meant she 
had difficulties working. Miss C wasnt happy with how Aviva had handled her claim and 
complained. 
Aviva reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It found there had been delays in the repairs and 
if these hadnt happened Miss C might have had her car back. However due to the country 
being in lockdown the garage repairing Miss Cs car was closed so Aviva didnt think it was 
responsible for that. Aviva offered £175 compensation for the delays in repairing Miss Cs 
car. Miss C didnt think this was good enough and brought her complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Cs complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found 
that if Aviva hadnt delayed the claim its likely Miss C would have had her car to use. He 
also thought if Miss Cs car hadnt been returned to her before the country went into 
lockdown, then Aviva could have done more to support Miss C as she was a keyworker and 
still working. 
Aviva didnt agree, it said that it wasnt possible to move Miss Cs car to another garage as 
the garage had already started work on it before it closed. Aviva also said Miss C had been 
provided with a small courtesy car as required under the policy and thought that all of Miss 
Cs equipment should have fitted in it. Aviva also said the delays werent for a long time and 
given the extent of the damage its likely her car wouldnt have been repaired before the 
country went into lockdown. 
As Aviva didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Aviva reviewed Miss Cs complaint it agreed it hadnt handled her claim as well as it 
should have and had caused delays. Because of this Aviva offered £175 compensation. As 
Aviva agreed and upheld Miss Cs complaint, I dont intend to go over whether its done 
anything wrong here. But I will be considering the amount of compensation offered to decide 
whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so Im not persuaded it 
is, and Ill explain why. 
Avivas said Miss C was provided with a courtesy car, as she was entitled to under her 
policy. And that it doesnt think the delays and poor claim handling meant Miss C would have 
had her car back before the garage closed. However, Ive also noted that Avivas internal 
system notes say that Miss C might have had her car back. So, Im not persuaded Miss C 
would have had the inconvenience of a smaller car for as long as she did have if it wasnt for 
Avivas errors. 
I can also see that Miss C had the small courtesy car from 28 February 2020, until 10 June 
2020 and that Miss C raised concerns about the size of the car during this time. Taking into 
account that Miss C was working throughout this time and using her car on a daily basis Im 
satisfied she had additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience during this time. Miss 
Cs explained she had to carry multiple pieces of medical equipment and that on some 
occasions had to ask colleagues to bring some equipment for her as it didnt all fit in the 
courtesy car. Im satisfied that this must have been inconvenient for Miss C to arrange, 
particularly while working long hours at the time. 
I can also see that Miss C had the small courtesy car from 28 February 2020, until 10 June 
2020 and that Miss C raised concerns about the size of the car during this time. Taking into 
account that Miss C was working throughout this time and using her car on a daily basis Im 
satisfied she had additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience during this time. 
Miss Cs explained she had to carry multiple pieces of medical equipment and that on some 
occasions had to ask colleagues to bring some equipment for her, as it didnt all fit in the 
courtesy car. Im satisfied that this must have been inconvenient for Miss C to arrange, 
particularly while working long hours at the time. Taking this all into account Im satisfied that 
£500 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate her for this unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to pay Miss C a total of £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. If Aviva 
Insurance Limited has already paid compensation to Miss C, its allowed to deduct what its 
already paid from the total amount.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman