DRN-1720151
The complaint
Mr I complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
AXA didnt actually sell the PPI but it has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill
refer to AXA as the seller to keep things simple.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card. Mr I applied for the card in 
store. At that stage the section of his card application form offering PPI was struck through 
and marked n/a. But AXA says he took out the PPI during a marketing phone call around 
two years later, in August 2000. Mr I is however adamant he didnt buy it over the phone.
The PPI covered Mr I if he couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr I didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
The adjudicator concluded the PPI was taken out in store, but AXA says it was taken 
out during a phone call.
At the time of the sale, Mr I and his wife owned a family home, a property which they 
rented, and they ran their own company. Mr I had around £7,000 in savings.
He never agreed to PPI because he had no need for it and it wasnt compulsory.
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold the complaint. I explained my reasons as follows:
In Mr Is view, our adjudicator implied the PPI was taken out when Mr I applied for the 
card in store. But Im satisfied from what AXA has told us that Mr I took out the PPI 
during a phone call with AXA on 19 August 2000, although I appreciate Mr I has no 
recollection of that call.
AXA needed to give Mr I clear information about the PPI before he agreed to take it. 
That included highlighting anything that could make it difficult for Mr I to make a 
successful claim.
Mr I says he was  self-employed  when he applied for the PPI. In response to our 
adjudicators view, he gave us some more information about his circumstances at the 
time. In particular he told us that he and his wife were also directors of a company. I 
can see that that company was incorporated just a few days before Mr I took out the 
PPI.
Ive looked at the terms that likely applied to Mr Is policy when it was sold, and I think 
it wouldve been more difficult for Mr I to make a claim for unemployment under it 
than he would have expected. Before he could make a successful claim both of his 
businesses would probably have had to have stopped trading (and not just 
temporarily).
I think it unlikely that Mr I would have expected both of his self employment 
arrangements to have been in this position. And if one of the businesses was short of 
work, I think hed probably have increased the time he spent on the other, to 
compensate. So I think he would have thought it unlikely that he would have been 
able to make a successful claim for unemployment, if hed understood what the 
policy required.
Although I cant be sure what was discussed over the phone (as no notes or 
recording of the call are now available), if AXA had made this requirement as clear to 
Mr I as it should have done  and Ive not seen anything to show me that it did - I 
dont think Mr I would have taken the policy.
So I think Mr I has lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong and so it needs to put 
things right.
Mr I agreed with my provisional decision. AXA did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or information, theres nothing to 
change my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr I in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. And 
what AXA needs to do will depend on if Mr Is store account is still open.
if Mr Is store card account is still open:
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and:
A. AXA should find out how much Mr I would owe on his card if the policy hadnt been added 
to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr I owes and what he would have 
owed.
If Mr I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mr I would have owed each month without PPI  Mr I paid 
more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 8% a year) 
on the extra Mr I paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr I 
wouldve owed AXA something on his card. C. AXA should tell Mr I what its done to work out A and B.
if Mr Is store card account is now closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Mr I would have owed when he closed his store card.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr I owed when he closed the account 
and what he wouldve owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mr I would 
have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr I would have owed each month without PPI  Mr I paid 
more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 8% a year) 
on the extra Mr I paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr I 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. 
D. AXA should tell Mr I what its done to work out A, B and C.
In either case, if the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr I that relates to 
this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr 
I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman