DRN-2419701
The complaint
Mr A complains that BUPA Insurance Limited wont either cover treatment that was 
authorised under his private health insurance policy or refund his premiums.
What happened
Mr As policy with BUPA started in August 2019 and it was due to end in August 2020, but 
he cancelled it in July 2020.
Mr A had investigations on his back in January 2020 through BUPA. BUPA didnt pay 
towards the first £200 as that was the excess on the policy but it paid the remaining balance. 
BUPA also authorised physiotherapy treatment. But this was put on hold due to the Covid-19 
global pandemic  WHO declared it as such on 11 March 2020. Mr A cancelled his policy in 
July 2020 before he could have the physiotherapy treatment authorised by BUPA.
Mr A isnt happy that hes had to continue to pay the premiums but he wasnt able to get the 
treatment the policy covered him for. He wants BUPA to cover the treatment that was 
authorised while he still held the policy. Or alternatively, he wants BUPA to refund the 
premiums he paid while he wasnt able to benefit from the policy. He also doesnt want to 
pay the excess for the investigations he had on his back.
BUPA said that due to the pandemic, non-urgent treatment had been postponed, and this 
was outside of its control. But BUPA made changes to the cover it was providing so that its 
customers could have as much support and treatment as possible. BUPA also said it would 
look into the impact of the pandemic, and it would look to pass back any exceptional 
financial benefit arising from the situation to its customers. As a gesture of goodwill, BUPA 
didnt charge Mr A a premium on his policy for a month.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was outside of BUPAs control that 
the physiotherapy treatment was put on hold. But the policy covered Mr A for other 
eventualities as well. So, he didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong when it didnt 
refund Mr A his premiums while he was covered under the policy.
Our investigator also said that as per the terms of the policy, BUPA doesnt need to pay for 
treatment that takes place after the policy is cancelled  even if it was authorised before that. 
He also said that BUPA had correctly applied the excess as per the policy terms.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Mr A wasnt able to have the physiotherapy when he needed it, and the 
treatment was put on hold. But I dont think this is something I can hold BUPA responsible 
for as this was due to the unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic. 
Unfortunately, this meant that independent hospital resources were needed to support the 
NHS and this had an impact on the private services they were able to offer. I dont think I can 
fairly say BUPA couldve done anything more for Mr A given the overall circumstances. 
Mr As policy with BUPA also covered him if he needed any other eligible treatment.
I also note that BUPA didnt charge Mr A for a month as a gesture of goodwill, and it said it 
would review the impact of the pandemic. BUPA provided information about what that would 
mean for all of its customers, and it included that information in letters to Mr A. Overall, I 
think what BUPA has done for Mr A is fair and reasonable. So, I dont think it needs to refund 
Mr A any of his premiums while he had the policy.
I can see that the excess of £200 is set out in the membership certificate. And the terms of 
the policy say the following:
We only pay Benefits for Treatment you receive while you are covered under the policy, and 
we only pay Benefits in accordance with the cover that applies to you on the date the 
Treatment takes place. We do not pay for any Treatment, including any Treatment we have 
pre-authorised, that takes place on or after the date your cover ends.
This is how private medical insurance works, so there isnt anything unusual about what 
BUPA has done. If Mr A wanted BUPA to continue to pay for the physiotherapy, he needed 
to continue his cover with it. But he decided to cancel his policy. And, just because the 
authorised treatment hadnt been completed, it doesnt automatically mean that BUPA has to 
pay the claim. The policy term Ive referred to explains that.
Taking everything into account, I dont think BUPA has treated Mr A unfairly or 
unreasonably. It applied the excess that Mr A had on his policy, and it continued to provide 
Mr A cover while he paid his premiums. Once Mr A cancelled his policy, there was no 
obligation on BUPA to continue to pay for any treatment, even if it had previously been 
authorised. So, I dont think theres anything else BUPA needs to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman