DRN-2654877
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs W complain about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has handled a 
medical assistance claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W was on holiday abroad. She was due to fly back to the UK on 12 February 2020.  
Unfortunately, on 1 February 2020, she was taken ill and diagnosed with pneumonia. She 
received outpatient treatment. Mr B got in touch with IPAs medical assistance team on 6 
February 2020 to let it know about Mrs Ws illness. He told it she had a follow-up scheduled 
for a couple of days later. He also let it know that Mrs Bs original flight back to the UK had 
been cancelled by the airline as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
IPA obtained medical records from the treating hospital. It told Mr B it would need a fit to fly 
certificate from Mrs Ws treating doctor to check it was safe for her to fly before it could look 
into arranging a new flight home. Mrs W had a follow-up on 8 February 2020, although the 
treating doctor didnt provide a fit to fly certificate. Mr B let IPA know that the airline would be 
refunding Mrs Ws original flight costs. He said that Mrs Ws doctor had told her that she was 
fit to fly. IPA told Mr B that it would still need a fit to fly certificate, so that it could help Mrs W 
arrange new flights. Alternatively, it said that she could get her original airline to rearrange 
flights or book her own flight back and make a claim for the costs. 
Mrs W arranged her own return flight and travelled back on 13 February 2020. She and Mr B 
were unhappy with the way IPA had handled their claim. They felt IPA had been unhelpful 
and that it had caused delays.
IPA looked into Mr B and Mrs Ws concerns. It maintained that before it could look into 
repatriating Mrs W back to the UK, it needed to be satisfied that it was medically safe for her 
to fly. But it acknowledged that it hadnt been as proactive in keeping Mr B updated about 
the progress of the claim, or as helpful in offering assistance as it shouldve been. So it paid 
Mr B and Mrs W £250 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset its handling of the 
claim had caused them.
Mr B and Mrs W remained unhappy with IPAs handling of their claim and they asked us to 
look into their complaint. They said IPA hadnt settled the cost of either Mrs Ws new flight or 
her medical expenses.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mr B and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She 
felt itd been reasonable for IPA to require a fit to fly certificate to show Mrs W was safe to 
travel before it looked into arranging a return flight to the UK. She acknowledged IPA hadnt 
handled the claim as well as it couldve done and she agreed that this wouldve caused Mr B 
and Mrs W some distress and inconvenience. But she didnt think itd led to the claim being 
delayed in any way. So she felt the £250 IPA had already paid was fair compensation.
The investigator also explained to Mr B and Mrs W that theyd need to make a claim to IPA 
for the flight and medical costs before we could potentially look into those issues in the 
future.
Mr B and Mrs W disagreed. They said that Mrs W had asked for a fit to fly certificate, but that 
this wasnt something the treating hospital could issue. They said theyd provided a medical 
report which showed that Mrs W was fit to travel. They felt that IPA had made things more 
difficult, because itd slowed down the possibility of Mrs W arranging a new flight at a 
reasonable price. They said that Mrs W had returned to the UK, which showed that she was 
fit to fly. And they felt IPA shouldve brought Mrs W home.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IPAs compensation payment was fair and reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr B and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of the claim, in deciding whether 
IPA handled the claim fairly.
First, I need to make it clear that this decision will only consider whether IPA handled Mrs 
Ws assistance claim reasonably. It wont consider whether IPA is liable to pay any claim for 
Mrs Ws medical expenses or any new flight costs. Thats because the evidence Ive seen 
suggests that Mrs W hasnt yet made a formal claim, either for her medical expenses or her 
flight costs for IPA to consider. Shell need to make such a claim for IPA to review in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy should she wish to do so. If she and Mr B are unhappy 
with the outcome of any assessment of their medical expenses and flight costs claim, they 
may potentially be able to ask us to look at those issues alone.
Was it reasonable for IPA to ask for a fit to fly certificate?
The terms and conditions of Mr B and Mrs Ws policy provide cover for medical emergency 
and repatriation. This includes emergency medical costs and the costs of repatriating a 
policyholder back to the UK if the policy terms are met. The policy also sets out what a 
policyholder will need to do if they need to make a claim. It includes the following term:
You must supply all of your original invoices, receipts and reports etc. You should check the 
section under which you are claiming for any specific conditions and details of any 
supporting evidence that you must give us.
I think the policy terms make it clear that IPA may require certain documentation before it 
agrees to settle or deal with a claim. IPA also has a regulatory duty to ensure it acts in a 
policyholders best interests.
In this case, the medical reports Mrs W provided the medical team showed that shed been 
diagnosed with pneumonia. In line with its standard procedures, IPA asked its medical team 
to review the reports to decide on the best course of action. IPAs medical team wanted to 
know what Mrs Ws oxygen levels were and whether she was fit to fly. Neither the original 
report dated 1 February, or the follow-up dated 8 February 2020, included this information or 
whether the treating doctor considered Mrs W was fit to fly. Usually, insurers (and airlines) 
will require a fit to fly certificate from the treating medical professional to confirm that any 
travel arrangements that have been made are safe and that its safe for a policyholder to travel. In the absence of this information, I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA to request 
this information before it looked into arranging a new flight. 
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs W say that the country she was in doesnt provide this 
information. But I think IPA was entitled to be satisfied that Mrs Ws oxygen levels were 
sufficiently high enough that flying long-haul was safe for her and that her symptoms 
wouldnt medically prevent her from travelling. Because this information wasnt forthcoming, 
IPA wasnt able to adequately assess whether Mrs W was medically fit enough to travel 
around the time of her claim. So I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA not to arrange a 
new flight until it had had sight of such a medical certificate.
Did IPA unreasonably delay the claim?
IPA accepts that it didnt keep Mr B updated as often as it shouldve done. It also accepts 
that it asked for information it already knew and that it shouldnt have suggested that it she 
should rearrange flights with her original airline. So I dont think it handled the claim as well 
as it couldve done. And I dont doubt that this added to Mr B and Mrs Ws trouble and upset 
at an already worrying time. But from the records Ive seen, IPA asked for information 
promptly; it reviewed it internally as quickly as it could and it confirmed cover within a 
reasonable timeframe. So I dont think it caused any unreasonable delays in the handling of 
the claim or that there was much more it couldve done to move the claim along without the 
information itd asked for.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that the £250 compensation IPA has already paid Mr B 
and Mrs W is fair and reasonable to reflect the impact its handling of the claim had on them. 
So Im not telling IPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that the compensation IPA has already 
paid Mr B and Mrs W is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman