DRN-4368263
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund the money he lost as the
result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr R has brought his complaint through a representative, for ease of reading I will refer
solely to Mr R in this decision.
What happened
Mr R says in 2018, after some online research, he decided to invest £10,000 in a bond
offered by a property company, company W. He sent a faster payment on 14 February 2018.
When he never received any return on his investment and couldnt contact company W, he
reported to NatWest that he believed he had been the victim of a scam. This was on 29 May
2020. Mr R says he later found out the funds were not used for the intended purpose and the
director of company W had defrauded many people.
NatWest rejected his refund claim saying it had made no error, the payment did not match
fraud trends and was not deemed suspicious.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service saying NatWest has to refund victims of APP
fraud under the Contingent Reimbursement Model. It has failed Mr R as it did not detect the
transaction as unusual and it has refused to investigate it further. He provided
information that he said conclusively showed company Ws property bond was a scam.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said NatWest did not act unfairly by
not intervening and asking about the faster payment as it was not unusual for Mr Rs
account. And even if it had she did not think this would have changed the outcome as Mr R
was happily investing his money after due diligence. With regards recovery, she thought
NatWest could have contacted the recipient bank faster but given the elapsed time between
the payment and Mr Rs fraud claim it was unlikely this would have changed the outcome.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr R asked for an ombudsmans review. He outlined in detail 
why this investment was a scam. He then said the transaction was unusual for him and
the bank should have intervened. And he argued that had it done so effectively it would have
prevented the scam. He also asked how it had been determined that hed researched the
opportunity and was comfortable making the investment.
I reached the same conclusion as the investigator but as I relied on different findings I issued 
a provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both 
parties to send any comments by 26 September 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
The first question we typically look to resolve in cases such as these is whether the company
involved, so here company W, was actually operating a scam.
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is in fact a scam. Some cases
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses.
Some investment companies may have promoted products, like the mini-bond that is the
subject of this dispute, which were not regulated by the FCAusing sales methods that
were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers have duties to protect customers against the
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to
guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised payments, they do
not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice 
and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised
investment advice.
Company W was a legitimate private limited company, incorporated in September 2015. It
traded for five years until it went into administration in 2020. Mr R has provided detailed
information that he says evidences the bond he purchased was part of a scam. I am aware
the police are currently looking into allegations of investment fraud against company W. As
this an ongoing investigation it is not my role to make a conclusive finding as to whether or
not Mr Rs bond purchase was part of a scam.
However, this does not mean I cant consider whether NatWest ought to have identified
Mr Rs payment as out of character, and therefore intervened before processing it. And
if so, I then need to decide had it done so what would the most likely outcome have been.
This must be based on what was known publicly and by Mr R about the investment
opportunity at the time.
Theres no dispute that Mr R made and authorised the payment. Mr R knew why he was
making the payment. At the stage he was making this payment, he believed he was
investing in a property bond. I dont dispute Mr R didnt receive what he thought he would,
but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services
Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that NatWest has an obligation to follow Mr Rs instructions. So in the
first instance Mr R is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance,
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. To note, as the payment pre-dates the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code
its principles do not apply in this case. This means I think that NatWest should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.In this case I think Mr Rs payment for £10,000 ought to have triggered further checks by
NatWest. I have reviewed Mr Rs current account statements from the 12 months prior to this
transaction. It seems from the information available to me that the high value was out of
character for the account, and it was a new payee. The investigator referenced a payment
for a similar amount in the prior month, but this was a one-off in Mr Rs 12-month account
history and clearly for a common reason at that time of year. So I dont think that meant this
payment was not unusual  and I note NatWest has accepted this in its submission to this
service. However it says value alone would not trigger a fraud check where there are no
other fraud threats. But as the transaction was out of character I find NatWest should have
contacted Mr R to ask for some detail about the payment before processing it.
This means I need to decide if NatWests intervention would have made a difference to
Mr Rs decision to send the payment. On balance I dont think it would. I say this based on
the questions NatWest should have asked given the features of investment scams at the
time  but taking into account that it had no duty to give investment advice.
At this time investment scams were often characterised by rates of return that were too good
to be true and by receiving the opportunity to invest via a cold call or an unsolicited offer,
with significant pressure applied to act now.
Mr Rs testimony about the sale of the bond is not particularly detailed. His representative
says it was initiated from a cold call, but the banks records show that when Mr R spoke to
NatWest he told it he was actively looking to invest at the time and had been searching
online for opportunities. He recalls that it was following this research that he was contacted
by a representative of company W. He then chose company Ws 5-year bond with, he
recalls, a rate of return of 8%. Mr R was funding the investment with savings he had
transferred into his current account prior to making the faster payment.
I dont find the bond purchase had any of the characteristics associated with an investment
scam. I have seen no evidence there was urgency placed on Mr R to invest quickly. Mr R
has said he checked Company Ws legitimacy at Companies House and read a number of
online reviews before proceeding, indicating there was no immediacy in his decision. He
recalls the rate of return was 8%, and the Investor Manifesto (IM) he submitted to this
service shows the quoted rate over a five-year term was 8.5%. I dont think an 8% or 8.5%
rate of return should have caused concern. Mr R has not confirmed when he received the
IM, but nevertheless I find it is important contemporaneous evidence. I say this as if NatWest
had been concerned Mr R lacked detail about his investment he would most likely have
obtained this  or used it if he had it at the time - to satisfy its questions.
And I dont think the IM, or the answers it would have allowed Mr R to give, would have 
created any alarm. It gave credible detail on how the bond would work and set out that the
company that was running the financial promotion for company W was authorised by the
FCA - there was not a requirement for companies issuing mini-bonds to raise money to be
authorised by the FCA. So the fact company W was not regulated would not have caused
NatWest any particular concern.
And there is no record of any published regulatory warning about company W in 2018. So it
seems at the time of the event there would have been no public information that NatWest
ought to have been aware of and reacted to. Or indeed that Mr R would have come across
had NatWest suggested he first complete more checks.
Its also notable there were no warnings at that time about mini-bonds as a product. The
FCA published more information about mini-bonds in May 2019 and highlighted some risks
involved with investing in such instruments. But this information was published nearly two
years after Mr R made his payment.The FCA temporarily banned the mass marketing of speculative mini-bonds to UK retail
consumers from January 2020, whilst it consulted on permanent rules. It made the
temporary ban permanent the following year. So I dont think NatWest could have been
reasonably aware of this given that this information was published around 30 months after
Mr R made his payment.
In the round, I dont think a proportionate level of questioning by NatWest would have led
it to conclude Mr R was at risk of financial harm and that it should not process the
payment.
I have then thought about whether NatWest did what this service would expect to recover
the funds once Mr Rs made a claim in 2020. Given the length of time that had passed Im
satisfied that recovery from the receiving bank was a not a viable option, irrespective of how
quickly NatWest contacted it.
It follows for the reasons set out above I cannot fairly hold NatWest liable for Mr Rs loss.
NatWest did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr Rs representative largely repeated 
its previous submissions; its response does not seem to take into account my provisional 
findings  for example, I agreed that NatWest ought to have intervened. 
It said, in summary, Company W was definitely operating a scam and the money Mr R 
invested was not used for the purpose described in the IM; the bank failed in its duty of care 
and so must refund Mr Rs money with interest; the bank should have stepped in as the 
payment was high value and to a new payee and had it asked the right questions it would 
have stopped the scam. Also, it provided new information saying Company W had an 
account with NatWest which had been shut down so it ought to have told Mr R this was a 
scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed Mr Rs representatives submission in response to my provisional 
decision. This repeated much of what it sent in during this investigation  and my provisional 
decision has already addressed the points that I found to be material to the outcome of this 
complaint so I will not repeat those findings here. They are covered above in the extract from 
my provisional decision.
It also sent in some new information for my consideration, saying that it had come to its 
attention that Company W previously had an account with NatWest that the bank had shut 
down. And as NatWest was privy to this information it should have told Mr R why this 
investment was likely a scam. It did not however provide any more substantive information 
such as the source of this new information, nor the date of the account closure. I requested 
supporting evidence, but Mr Rs representative did not provide anything.
NatWest however has confirmed Company W did not have an account with it, but did hold 
an account with another retail banking brand in its group. This was active in February 2018.
It follows this new information does not change my conclusion and for the reasons set out 
above I cannot fairly hold NatWest liable for Mr Rs loss.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman