DRN-4131273
The complaint
Mr H complains that Citibank UK Limited failed to carry out a transfer of funds abroad 
causing him to incur fees by using an alternative method of payment.
What happened
Mr H attempted a wire transfer of funds on 21 September 2022 from his Citibank account to 
a business abroad (the recipient). On 6 October 2022, the recipient said it hadnt received 
the funds. Mr H contacted Citibank the same day, and, after multiple calls said he was told 
on 10 October 2022 that the payment was blocked and would be returned to his Citibank 
account. 
On 10 October, Mr H made the payment via a payment service provider (PSP) and incurred 
a fee of £567.01. The PSP converted the payment into the recipients foreign currency, 
which the recipient had to reconvert to Sterling for onward transmission and incurred a loss 
on the foreign exchange rate of £472.49. Mr H said the PSP and exchange rate fee wouldnt 
have been incurred if Citibank had completed his transfer at the time or told him it was likely 
to complete when he enquired on 10 October. But its error led to a total loss of £1,039.50. 
Mr H said he made multiple calls to Citibank during this period which were stressful and 
confusing. Initially he said he was told the wire had gone through and Citibank indicated 
possible fraud by the recipient. Later, Citibank said the money would be returned, however 
on 18 October the recipient told Mr H it had received the original wire transfer of funds. 
Mr H said he was then dependent on the recipient agreeing to return the funds promptly, 
which it did on 20 October on the condition he seek compensation from Citibank for the fees 
incurred. Mr H called Citibank to complain and received its final response on 25 October 
2022. Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome and wrote to Citibank on 30 October 2022 and 17 
January 2023, but said he didnt get a response, and referred his complaint to our service.
In its response to Mr Hs complaint of 25 October, Citibank said it had provided him with 
incorrect information about the transfer, such as that the receiving bank had told it that the 
payment would be returned, and then saying on 14 October that the payment would be 
made within 3-5 days. Citibank apologised, but offered nothing for the fees incurred. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Citibank incorrectly 
told Mr H that his funds would be returned and so Mr H made his transfer by other means 
and incurred charges. He said these should be repaid to Mr H along with £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr H agreed with the investigator, but Citibank did not and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Citibank said it was happy to refund the fee of £567.01 Mr H incurred for the 
transfer, but didnt think it was accountable for the loss on the PSPs foreign exchange rates.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the communications between the parties and can well understand the stress 
Mr H faced when he couldnt trace his payment. I dont think Mr H should have had to 
discover from the recipient that the transaction had in fact completed, and this was contrary 
to what Citibank had told him. Citibank wrote to Mr H on 25 October 2022 and acknowledged 
that it had told him that his payment had been blocked and would be returned to his Citibank 
account. Im pleased Citibank has agreed to refund the fee of £567.01 Mr H incurred, but I 
think it needs to go further.
I have thought about the handling of Mr Hs payment by Citibank and the mistakes it made. 
Mr H said the recipient required funds in Sterling and the transfer attempted via Citibank 
would have carried no foreign exchange fees, whereas a large fee for this was incurred via 
the PSP. This was due to the money having to be transferred first into the foreign currency, 
and then back into Sterling. So the foreign exchange fee was incurred as a direct result of 
Citibanks handling of the transaction. 
I think Citibanks poor handling of the transfer led directly to Mr H incurring fees, and without 
so doing he had no means of knowing that the business transaction would have been 
completed. Im satisfied this would have had further consequences for Mr Hs business. As 
the fees followed Mr Hs recovery of the failed transaction I think they were a foreseeable 
consequence and should be reimbursed to Mr H by Citibank as a fair and reasonable 
response to its handling errors. 
Mr H said he spent a significant amount of time and suffered stress between 6 and 20 
October 2022 in trying to sort out what had gone wrong. At the end of this period Mr H 
discovered the recipient had received the payment via Citibank and a duplicate payment had 
been made. Mr H then had to make arrangements, and trust the recipient to return the 
payment. I think Citibank should have made more effort to determine the problem with Mr 
Hs payment and certainly should have communicated with him more effectively. 
Citibank hasnt responded about the compensation of £250 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr H suffered. This amount falls within a category of compensation we award 
when there has been a single significant mistake which has caused a consumer to take 
remediation action and caused a great deal of stress over a relatively short period. Mr H has 
described what happened at each stage of the payment process and I think £250 
compensation is a fair and reasonable reflection of the stress and inconvenience he has 
been caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Citibank UK Limited to compensate Mr H for the £1,039.50 fees incurred for the alternative 
transaction he carried out to pay his recipient. And to pay Mr H £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he suffered as a consequence of Citibanks poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman