DRN-3699062
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Canada Life Limited has unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs S has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
Canada Life Limited. This policy would pay a benefit if Mrs S was unable to work due to 
illness or injury for a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks and beyond. 
Mrs S job was desk based and she was contracted to work 24 hours per week. 
In January 2021, Mrs S became unwell due to her thyroid problems and then later in 
January, she tested positive for Covid-19. Mrs S remained off work due to fatigue and 
various other symptoms and submitted a claim to Canada Life. 
Canada Life declined the claim and said Mrs S didnt meet the definition of incapacity 
throughout the deferred period. Mrs S disagreed and referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Canada Life had unfairly declined 
the claim. Mrs S disagreed and in summary, she made the following comments:
Her GP has written a supportive letter and states she is not fit for work. 
Her thyroid updates are old results and misleading. 
Cardio related issues havent been mentioned, her blood pressure drops and 
becomes high and these are known issues relating to long Covid, which she has 
been diagnosed with.
Her medical issues havent been identified or assessed quickly, some have been 
stable for a short time but have then gone back to being unstable.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld, and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
We will treat a member as suffering incapacity, if, throughout the deferred period and 
beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them incapable of, 
performing the material and substantial duties of their normal occupation.
So this means, Mrs S has to be too unwell to work for the whole of the deferred period. The 
onus is on Mrs S to prove her claim through independent, objective medical evidence. 
The medical evidence from the deferred period
Ive reviewed Mrs S GP notes from January 2021 to the end of the deferred period. 
Although the GP continued to sign Mrs S off, the notes dont provide any detailed 
explanation of why Mrs S wouldnt be able to continue working in her role. I would 
expect to see detailed consideration of Mrs S role and why her condition was 
stopping her from working for 26 weeks with reference to her duties and limitations. 
There is no evidence of a functional capacity report to show why Mrs S wouldnt be 
able to return to work within the deferred period.
By June 2021, the GP notes record that Mrs S was well within herself and doing all 
her usual activities. But Mrs S has to show that she cannot perform the material and 
substantial duties of her normal occupation throughout the full deferred period. The 
evidence shows Mrs S condition improved within the deferred period.
In April 2021, Mrs S consultant physician wrote to her GP and said she was over the 
worst of her Covid symptoms and her asthma control had been reasonable. Her 
consultant in endocrinology also wrote to the GP at the same time and explained that 
her most recent thyroid function test results had improved, and her liver function tests 
were normal. In addition, her CT scan was normal. 
Mrs S did report symptoms such as fatigue, eye bulge, night sweats and palpitations 
amongst others which are noted in her occupational health reports. But these are 
self-reported and so I have given less weight to this evidence. I have given more 
weight to the GP notes which indicate improvements in the deferred period. 
Canada Lifes medical expert reviewed Mrs S medical notes and evidence and didnt 
think there was sufficient evidence of incapacity throughout the whole deferred 
period. He said some of Mrs S symptoms predated her absence. He said her thyroid 
issues resolved once she resumed medication. And in his opinion, Mrs S could have 
returned to work by March/April 2021 as she had undergone multiple investigations 
which confirmed normal system function.
Mrs S has referred to and provided further medical evidence to this office which wasnt 
available to Canada Life at the time it was assessing the claim. Mrs S would need to provide 
any new evidence to Canada Life directly for it to consider if new, supportive evidence has 
become available. 
Overall, I dont think Canada Life unfairly declined this claim based on the medical evidence 
available to it at the time it assessed the claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman