DRN-3364844
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
mishandled his legal expenses insurance claim and sold him a policy that was not fit for 
purpose.
NFU use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy and manage claims on 
their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his commercial legal expenses policy after the leaseholder of the 
building he owned failed to pay for the buildings insurance which Mr H had taken out for the 
building. However, NFU declined the claim as they didnt consider it to meet the policy 
requirements for either contractual disputes or debt recovery. Mr H complained that this was 
unfair, and also alleges the policy was mis-sold to him.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. I said I was minded not 
to uphold it, and set out the following reasons:
Declined claim
Mr H made a claim to DAS in July 2020 for assistance with a breach of contract claim 
due to the leaseholder of the flat above his shop refusing to pay towards buildings 
insurance and ground rent. However, with regards to contract disputes, the policy 
states it will not pay for:
the recovery of money and interest due from another party other than 
disputes where the other party intimates that a defence exists. 
Mr H considers the use of the word intimates in the above clause creates ambiguity 
in the application of the exclusion. The word has not been defined in the policy 
wording, which means that it should therefore be interpreted in line with its widely 
understood meaning. So, I have construed it in line with its commonly understood 
definition of meaning to communicate or make known. 
In this instance, there was seemingly no defence on the part of the leaseholder that 
was put forwards or made known as to why the insurance/ground rent had not been 
paid, other than excuses such as refusing or not being able to pay. These cant 
reasonably constitute a defence, so Im satisfied the circumstances of the claim are 
caught by this exclusion. I dont consider this to be an ambiguous term, as I think it is 
clear what is meant by the word intimates in this context. And neither do I consider it 
to be a significant term. Each section of cover within the policy will have exclusions 
and things that it will not cover, but its not practicable to expect the insurer to list 
every single exclusion as a significant term (indeed, if they were to do so, then any 
truly significant or onerous terms would lose their prominence). So, Im not 
persuaded there was any obligation on NFU to highlight it or bring it to Mr Hs 
attention in these circumstances. It is set out clearly in the policy document which, as 
a commercial customer, Mr H would be expected to read. 
 
Mr H also submits that the term is unfair. But I dont see how it creates a significant 
imbalance between the policyholder and the insurer. An insurer is entitled to set out 
what risks it is and isnt willing to cover. In this instance, NFU has set out that it is not 
willing to cover contract disputes that concern the recovery of money where the other 
party has no defence for not paying it. I understand he is unhappy that this means his 
claim had not been covered, but that does not mean the term is inherently unfair; the 
circumstances of his claim simply do not meet the requirements for cover. 
NFU also considered Mr Hs claim under the debt recovery section of the policy, 
which covers:
Costs and expenses relating to the recovery of money and interest due from 
the sale or provision of goods or services, including the enforcement of 
judgments.
The insurer also declined to cover the claim under this section because Mr H could 
not be said to have been selling or providing goods or services. Mr H disagreed with 
this because he believes he was providing a service to the leaseholder by arranging 
the buildings insurance (of which he is obliged to pay his share of the premium). 
However, while I understand he may have been liable to pay this as part of his lease, 
Im not persuaded this can reasonably be considered as the provision of a service in 
the manner intended by the policy. In my judgment, a person cannot do something of 
their own volition such as arranging insurance (which hasnt necessarily been 
requested by the other party, even though they may be obliged to pay it) and then 
subsequently claim they are providing a service for which they can seek to recover a 
debt. 
While I appreciate that the payment of an insurance premium is a condition of the 
lease, it cannot be said that the leaseholder has entered into a contract with Mr H for 
the provision of services  i.e. for him to arrange his buildings insurance for him 
(which would be the sort of contract one would enter into with an insurance broker, 
for example). So I do not consider NFU have unfairly declined to cover the claim 
under this section of the policy either, as Im not persuaded that Mr H has provided 
goods or services in these circumstances. Therefore, Im satisfied that NFU have 
declined the claim fairly in line with the policy terms and conditions on the above 
basis.
I understand that there has also been some dispute about the date of occurrence of 
the dispute and whether or not it occurred prior to the inception of the policy. But 
given that I dont think Mr Hs claim has been unfairly declined under the contract 
disputes/debt recovery sections of the policy, I dont consider it necessary to explore 
whether any further provisions of the policy would operate to exclude cover for the 
claim.
Mis-sale
Mr H has told NFU that he wants a full refund of his premiums as he does not 
consider the policy to be fit for purpose given that it wouldnt cover him for a breach 
of contract claim. However, the fact that a policy does not cover a particular claim 
does not mean it is not fit for purpose or was mis-sold. There are various sections of 
the policy that would provide cover if the policy requirements are met, including breach of contract/recovery of money if the defendant claims a defence for not 
paying a sum of money. 
I dont consider that the way the above-mentioned clauses are worded meant that the 
policy was unsuitable for Mr Hs needs. And I cannot see that he specifically 
requested a policy that would cover the very scenario for which he is now seeking to 
claim. He has had the benefit of legal expenses cover for the past ten years. There is 
little to suggest that he would not have been able to claim under any section of the 
policy such that it would be rendered worthless. So, I do not consider there to be any 
fair and reasonable basis to direct NFU to refund the premiums he has paid to 
towards his policy. 
Mr H has also been provided with copies of the policy wording in 2010, 2015 and 
2017, and up to date copies would have also been made available online as is 
highlighted in the renewal documentation (and which is also common practice now 
with insurance renewals). The policy terms NFU is seeking to rely on were provided 
in the 2017 renewal documentation and have not changed. As a commercial 
policyholder, Mr H ought reasonably to have read the policy terms and known what 
he was covered for, or to have queried anything he wasnt happy with. So, overall, 
Im not persuaded that NFU has mis-sold the policy to Mr H.
Mr H also considers the link between NFU and DAS to be obscure and unclear. 
However, an insurer is required to outsource the administration of their legal 
expenses policy (including the management of claims) to an independent 
intermediary so as to avoid any potential for a conflict of interest in the handling of 
legal expenses claims. Therefore, this is not something the insurer can be criticised 
for, but they are responsible as the principal for the acts and omissions of the 
intermediaries who deal with claims on their behalf, which is why this complaint is 
being considered against NFU rather than DAS. It is also made clear in the policy 
document who the insured should contact in the event of a legal expenses insurance 
claim, and who will be dealing with the claim. 
Claim handling
I understand that Mr H is unhappy with the way NFU have handled his claim, 
including the way they have communicated with him, and I can appreciate why he 
has become frustrated with how matters have progressed. I can see, for example, 
that there were delays in the insurer reviewing the claim, that they didnt call him, and 
that he had to chase the insurer for a response on several occasions. I also note that 
he had to pay to send a copy of his lease agreement, which NFU have failed to send 
back to him. 
NFU have acknowledged that their service occasionally fell below what could 
reasonably be expected, and offered Mr H £50 compensation, as well as reimbursing 
him the cost of sending his lease agreement. I understand this compensation was 
paid before he made his complaint. But in order to award further compensation, I 
would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of NFU have had a greater 
impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not persuaded it has in 
these circumstances. 
I accept that mistakes were sometimes made by the insurer and that their handling of 
the claim could have been better in some respects. But having considered everything 
holistically, Im satisfied that the amount NFU has already paid represents fair 
compensation. So, while I understand Mr H may not feel this is commensurate to the 
experience he has had, I dont consider any further award to be warranted. Complaint handling
I note that Mr H has also raised several concerns about how NFU and their 
intermediaries have handled his complaint, such as their failure to respond or 
acknowledge his concerns, which prompted him to have to write to DASs CEO.  He 
was also frustrated to find that DAS were not dealing with his complaint and had 
instead just forwarded it to NFU, causing him to waste four months waiting for a 
response.  However, complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (it is not the provision of a financial service, for example, or the 
carrying out of a contract of insurance, which are regulated activities). Therefore, this 
service is unable to consider complaints about how a firm has handled a complaint, 
and it is not something I can comment on as part of this complaint. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. NFU didnt submit any further 
comments. Mr H disagreed and put forward further submissions for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made several detailed submissions in relation to his complaint and again in 
response to my provisional decision. I would like to assure Mr H that I have read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but I dont intend responding in similar detail. Instead, I 
will focus on what I consider to be any new/main points he has raised in response to my 
provisional decision, as well as adding to any reasoning I have set out previously where I 
consider it necessary. So, if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service. 
First, Mr H has asked what is meant by the circumstances referred to in my provisional 
decision. This is simply referring to the facts and circumstances of his case as I see them, 
based on the evidence submitted by both parties.
Mr H maintains that he considers the word intimate used in the contract disputes clause to 
be ambiguous as it can have multiple meanings, which I accept. However, when a court 
interprets a contract, it seeks to determine what a reasonable person would have understood 
the parties to have meant by the language used, where the reasonable person is taken to 
have all the background knowledge which would have been reasonably available to the 
parties at the time of the contract (see the judgment of Lord Hoffman in Chartbrook Ltd v 
Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009] UKHL 38). 
When a certain phrase (in the absence of any particular definition having been assigned to it 
by the contract) has a natural and ordinary meaning, it will generally be given that meaning 
by the courts. The word will not be considered in isolation, but in the context of the rest of the 
clause/contract to determine what the reasonable person would understand it to mean. 
So, while I understand that the word intimates can have several different meanings, I think 
its meaning is clear when read in the context of the rest of the policy clause i.e. where the 
other party intimates that a defence exists. Im satisfied that the reasonable person would 
likely understand this to mean when the other party communicates or makes his defence 
known and, as I set out in my provisional decision, I dont consider its meaning when read in 
light of the rest of the clause to be ambiguous. Even if it were ambiguous, it wouldnt automatically mean that the insurer cannot rely on it. It simply means that a more favourable 
interpretation of the word would be adopted (if there were one) in Mr Hs favour. But I do not 
see what other more favourable interpretation could reasonably be given to the word in the 
context of the policy clause that would mean his claim would otherwise be covered under 
this section. 
Mr H also maintains that the term is unfair, and I note that he has also referenced the 
Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015. However, Mr H took out a commercial policy with NFU 
(Commercial Select Insurance) which covers things like business interruption and 
commercial legal expenses, amongst other things. So, its doubtful that the CRA 2015 would 
apply to Mr Hs commercial insurance contract as it only applies to consumer contracts. But 
even if it did apply, as I set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that the term is 
unfair in any event, as I do not consider that it has the effect of limiting his legal rights or 
creating a significant imbalance between the parties. 
With regards to the debt recovery element of Mr Hs claim, he maintains that he was 
providing a service to the leaseholder by arranging the buildings insurance. He has quoted 
section 18(1)(a) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 and says that the insurance forms part 
of the service charge the leaseholder needs to pay him. But while that may be so  in the 
context of providing insurance  Im still not persuaded that Mr H could be said to be 
providing a service in this instance (such as effecting a contract of insurance for the 
leaseholder, for example) in the sense intended by the policy term. Indeed, Mr H is not 
regulated to do so, and the leaseholder did not ask him to carry out any such services (and 
neither would he have any recourse to complain about Mr H if the insurance he had taken 
out for the buildings turned out to be unsuitable) So, Mr Hs submissions have not changed 
the conclusions reached in my provisional decision, and I still do not consider his debt 
recovery claim to have been declined unfairly.  
With regards to the mis-sale of the policy, Mr H claims that he did in fact specifically ask 
NFU for a policy that would provide legal expenses cover in the event that the leaseholder 
reneged on his commitments. However, I have not seen any persuasive contemporaneous 
evidence to substantiate this. But in any event, I dont agree that the policy would never 
respond to a breach of contract by the leaseholder or couldnt ever cover such a scenario. If 
the requirements for cover under this section are met, then legal expenses for contractual 
disputes will be covered by the insurer. It is simply that the circumstances of Mr Hs claim did 
not meet the policy criteria for cover, so there is no obligation on the insurer to cover the 
claim. Therefore, I still do not consider the policy to have been an unsuitable 
recommendation.
In terms of the claim handling aspect of Mr Hs complaint, I acknowledge what he has said in 
that the compensation awarded by NFU was made at their own behest and that he had no 
input in this. But nevertheless, I still consider it to be fair. He has said that it was awarded 
due to the way DAS had handled his claim, and he does not understand why I would not 
consider a further award of compensation for the way NFU handled his complaint.
First, this service would not look to make different awards for the separate acts or omissions 
of NFU and DAS. DAS are appointed by NFU to administer the policy and manage claims on 
their behalf. So, NFU (as the principal) are therefore responsible for all the acts and 
omissions of DAS as their agent, which is why I said at the beginning of my decision that any 
reference to the insurer should be read as including the acts and omissions of their 
intermediaries. Therefore, the actions of both entities are considered holistically as one. 
Second, as I set out in my provisional decision, complaint handling is not an activity 
regulated by the FCA. So it is neither something this service can look into, comment on, or 
make an award of compensation for. But having considered the way the claim was handled, Im still not persuaded that any further compensation is warranted in this instance for the 
reasons Ive previously set out.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, and I understand the strength of 
feeling he has about his complaint. But I do not consider there to be any legal or fair and 
reasonable basis in which to ask NFU to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman