DRN-1353169
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd unfairly declined a claim for critical illness 
benefit under a term assurance policy.
What happened
Mr A holds a deceasing term assurance policy with his wife. The policy started in March 
2011 and initially provided cover of £138,000 which decreased over the 24 year term.
In January 2019 Mr A was diagnosed with dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a 
form of cancer. So, a claim was submitted under the policy. Zurich considered the claim but 
declined it on the grounds that skin cancers are excluded and because Mr As DFSP wasnt 
invasive.
Mr A appealed, providing evidence from his consultant, Mr J, who said DFSP should be 
considered as a sarcoma rather than a skin cancer. He also said DFSP was, by its nature, 
invasive and had malignant potential. Zurich didnt change its decision, so Mr A referred his 
complaint to our service via a representative.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she thought Zurichs decision was fair. 
Although there was conflicting evidence as to whether DFSP was a skin cancer, she didnt 
think the available evidence showed Mr As DFSP was invasive, which was a requirement of 
the cancer definition under the policy terms.
Mr As representative maintained DFSP was a sarcoma, not a skin cancer, as per the World 
Health Organisations definition. But in any event, it said Zurichs cancer definition didnt 
require Mr As sarcoma to have invaded tissue, it only excluded cancers which are 
histologically classified as non-invasive. It said Mr J confirmed DFSP is an invasive cancer. 
So, it thought the claim should be paid.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr A, so Ill 
explain why.
Id first like to explain that Im aware Mr As representative has submitted further evidence to 
us and Zurich from Mr J about Mr As condition  this was provided in December 2019. Im 
also aware that theyve recently asked us if they can provide further information. My role 
here is to determine whether the decision reached by Zurich was fair, based on the evidence 
available to it at the time. The initial decision on Mr As claim was made in April 2019, further evidence was considered, and the decision was maintained in July 2019. So, I cant take any 
medical evidence into account that became available after this date.
I know Zurich has provided its comments on the further evidence provided by Mr As 
representative and said it wouldnt be changing its decision. But if Mr A remains unhappy 
with this he should complain to Zurich  if it doesnt change its decision, he can refer a new 
complaint to our service.
Under the terms of Mr As policy, cancer is defined as follows:
Cancer - excluding less advanced cases
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and characterised 
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue.
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following 
opre-malignant
onon-invasive
ocancer in situ
ohaving either borderline malignancy or having low malignant potential.
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score 
greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having progressed 
to at least Binet Stage A.
Any skin cancer other than malignant melanoma that has been histologically 
classified as having caused invasion beyond the epidermis (outer layer of skin).
 
Zurich declined Mr As claim for two reasons; because Mr As cancer was non-invasive and 
because it was excluded as it believes DFSP is a form of skin cancer. I know there is some 
debate over whether its fair for Zurich to class DFSP as a skin cancer, but I dont think I 
need to make a finding on this point. Ultimately my role is to decide whether it was fair for 
Zurich to decline the claim. So, the definition of cancer (as above) needs to be considered as 
a whole.
Ive considered the evidence Zurich was provided when the claim was assessed in April and 
July 2019, this includes the histology report and letters from Mr J dated 26 June 2019 and 
16 July 2019. The histology report stated that there wasnt any vascular or perineural 
invasion. In his letter of 26 June 2019, which mostly focused on the classification of the 
cancer, Mr J stated:
it certainly has both invasive malignant and indeed metastatic potential
In his letter of 16 July 2019 he said:
you have also enquired as to whether the cancer could be classified as "pre-malignant 
non-invasive, cancer in-situ, having borderline malignancy or having low malignant 
potential. Indeed this is unequivocally not the case as already stated DFSP is specifically 
malignant, invasive with genuine and well described malignant potential.I dont think the above evidence demonstrates that Mr As case of DFSP was invasive. The 
histology confirms there wasnt any vascular or perineural invasion and Mr Js comments 
arent specifically about Mr As DFSP. Rather, he comments on the invasive nature and 
potential of DFSP. The definition requires Mr As occurrence of DFSP to be invasive. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Zurich to decline the claim based on this evidence.
Mr As representative says the policy definition doesnt require evidence that a sarcoma has 
invaded tissue. But I dont agree. The definition of cancer is:
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and characterised 
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue.
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
It goes on to say, for the above definition all cancers which are histologically classified as 
non-invasive arent covered. This means the exclusions apply to all cancers, including 
sarcomas. Furthermore, the term histologically classified can only be in reference to the 
policyholders cancer, as it cant be established how advanced their cancer is without 
histological analysis. The policy seeks to exclude less advanced cases, which is why there 
are limits to the cover based on the histological classification of the cancer. 
I appreciate this leaves Mr A in a difficult position, but he is free to provide further evidence 
to Zurich for it to consider. And as Ive stated above, he can refer a new complaint to our 
service if he remains unhappy with Zurichs decision to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman