DRN-3780710
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly granted him credit he couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
Vanquis opened a credit card account for Mr B in January 2013. This type of credit was 
an open-ended or running account facility and the credit limit was £500. By May, Mr B 
had spent over his limit and missed payments and the account was defaulted in July.
Mr B says that Vanquis didnt look into his circumstances enough before lending to him.
Mr B said that he had existing debt and couldnt afford to repay more credit. He says that 
he didnt meet his card repayments and took on more debt. Eventually, he entered into an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) to clear his debts.
Vanquis didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it asked him about his income and 
found that the credit card repayments would be affordable for him. Vanquis said that 
although Mr B had some adverse information on his credit file, it wasnt recent enough to 
raise concerns.
Mr B referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that Vanquis didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the 
credit agreement. Mr B didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his complaint 
to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve and it came to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on the 10 October 2022 explaining why I didnt think Mr Bs 
complaint should be upheld. I allowed some time for both parties to provide me with 
further comments or new information for me to consider when making my final decision. 
Mr B responded but I have not heard from Vanquis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again, including what Mr B said in response to my 
provisional decision, my conclusion remains unchanged and I am not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for him and Im sorry that this 
isnt the outcome he wanted. Ill set out again my reasons for not upholding his complaint 
in this final decision. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and 
guidance on responsible lending which lenders, such as Vanquis, need to abide by. 
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Vanquis asked Mr B about his income which he said was £20,000, and Ive estimated 
that his net monthly pay was therefore approximately £1,400. Vanquis says that the credit 
card repayments would have cost Mr B around £25 a month should he have borrowed up 
to the limit. Vanquis said that, given what it knew of Mr Bs commitments, it wasnt an 
unaffordable amount to repay.
The regulations stated that a lender should not use the assumption of the amount 
necessary to make only the minimum payment each month and should consider the 
customers ability to repay the maximum amount of credit available under the agreement 
within a reasonable period of time. Even bearing this in mind, I think it was reasonable to 
consider that Mr B would be able to repay the credit within a reasonable period of time, 
given his stated income and the credit limit.
Vanquis also checked Mr Bs credit file. Neither Vanquis nor Mr B have been able to 
provide me with a copy of his credit file from the time, though Vanquis has provided a 
copy of some of the information it recorded from the file. This includes that Mr B had 
active debt of £1,400, defaulted debts of £2,300 and county court judgements (CCJ) for 
an amount of £11,500. Vanquis noted that the latest default date was 39 months prior to 
the account opening and the last CCJ was awarded 20 months prior. Vanquis said that it 
is known as being a second- chance lender and is often used by people looking to 
rebuild their credit history. It said that although Mr B had defaults and CCJs present on 
his credit file, given the length of time since these occurred, they wouldnt have 
necessarily been reasons to decline the application.
Our investigator found that the checks Vanquis carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate and that it hadnt acted irresponsibly when it agreed to offer Mr B a credit 
card on the basis of the information it had. I agree that in some cases these checks might 
be appropriate but in this case I think Vanquis needed to do more.
I agree that Vanquis didnt act irresponsibly here by accepting that Mr B had some 
previous financial difficulty and didnt automatically decline to lend to him on this basis 
alone. The adverse information it noted from Mr Bs credit file was not very recent. 
However, the amount of debt he had been unable to repay was relatively large compared 
with this income. And I dont think Vanquis knew how much Mr B was paying towards his 
debts, historic or active, at the time it agreed more credit for him.
The regulations stated that if a lender took income or expenditure into account it needed 
to take account of actual current income or expenditure and that it wasnt generally 
sufficient to rely on self-certification. I cant see that Vanquis looked for any independent 
verification of  Mr Bs income before lending to him or that it asked Mr B about his 
expenditure, including what he was spending on repaying his active and historic debts. 
Altogether, I dont think Vanquis knew enough about Mr Bs means to have reached a 
reasonable understanding of whether or not this agreement was sustainably affordable for 
him without further checks.
That said, I cant be certain what Mr B might have told Vanquis had it asked about his 
regular expenditure, or what it might have seen if it looked to verify his income. Mr B 
hasnt provided me with any information or supporting evidence about his means for 
example, bank statements or payslips. Mr B has provided information about his IVA which 
shows that the initial meeting of his creditors took place in March 2017, some four years 
after this account was opened, and by that time he had £28,500 of unsecured debts. From 
the information Ive seen, some of these were built up before Vanquis opened the account 
but, as mentioned, I dont know what Mr B might have been paying towards them, or 
ought to have been paying towards them, at the time of the account opening.Altogether, with the information available to me, I cant reasonably conclude that further 
checks would have shown Vanquis that Mr B would not be able to meet his payments 
sustainably and led it to decline to lend to him. So I havent concluded that Vanquis acted 
unfairly in approving the finance on this occasion.
Mr B said in response to my provisional decision that if Vanquis knew about his previous 
debt, then it should have put measures in place to make sure that its credit wasnt going to 
cause problems for him and lead him into further debt. I agree with Mr B, which is why Ive 
concluded that Vanquis should have looked into his circumstances further before lending 
to him to check whether he might be impacted adversely by this. As Ive explained, I dont 
know what it might have learnt about his circumstances and so, in this case, I cant find 
that it was wrong to lend to him.
Mr B also said that the fact he entered into an IVA years later evidences that this credit 
caused him problems. I appreciate that Mr B took on considerably more debt over the 
years which resulted in him entering into an IVA to help manage this. However, I havent 
seen enough to make me think this outcome would have been obvious to Vanquis, had it 
had more information about his circumstances, and led it to decline to lend to him at that 
time. 
Mr B also told us that he had health problems at the time and I am sorry to hear of his 
difficulties. However, I havent seen anything in the available information which suggests to 
me that Vanquis knew, or should have known, about his health problems before agreeing to 
lend to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Vanquis Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman