DRN-2805008
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society has failed to provide the agreed complete 
ongoing service for his investment portfolio. To resolve his complaint, Mr W says he ought to 
be proportionately refunded the charges he has paid along with any associated financial 
losses and compensated for the inconvenience he has suffered. He also requires 
Nationwide to supply its most recent annual reports to him, which remain outstanding. 
What happened
Mr W holds a Nationwide Investment Portfolio. It comprises a cash account, an investment 
ISA and a Unit Trust with holdings in L&Gs mixed asset investment funds. Mr W also opted 
for the Nationwides Ongoing Service (OGS). This offers:
access to a Nationwide Financial Adviser at Mr Ws direction for the purpose of 
reviewing his portfolio or discussing advice previously received;
any time access to a personal finance portal;
a personalised Annual Customer Report (ACR) detailing investment performance;
the services of its Investment Committee that regularly reviews the panel of funds, 
sending additional information where changes may be required; and
an annual review of the ongoing suitability of the chosen investment(s), usually 
conducted via telephone and post. 
The first two ACRs were received in 2017 and 2018 and the report was produced by Legal 
& General. However, in April 2019, Nationwide wrote to Mr W to explain that it would be 
producing the ACRs going forwards. This was because investor feedback had indicated that 
more relevant information could be produced by Nationwide than had been previously 
supplied by Legal & General. Consequently, it informed Mr W and other affected customers 
that an upcoming ACR would be delayed.   
Though Nationwide had told Mr W it hoped to supply the outstanding ACR by the end of 
2019, it did not do so. Mr W therefore complained to his relevant Nationwide Financial 
Planning Manager (FPM). She offered to send a further written investment valuation but 
explained that she had been told the same information about the ACRs  these were 
awaited by all affected customers following Nationwides decision to produce them itself. 
However, Mr W explained that the ACR comprised more than a valuation and he was still 
unhappy that it had never been supplied for 2019, with 2020s report rapidly approaching. 
The FPM accordingly registered Mr Ws concerns as a formal complaint. 
Nationwide upheld the complaint in February 2020. It apologised for not supplying the 2019 
ACR. It explained that it couldnt give a date as to when it would be issued, but that all other 
aspects of the OGS were open and available to Mr W. Further, he was in receipt of quarterly 
statements for the investment, the most recent of which had been sent on 7 January 2020.  
However, Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. He said he 
remained concerned about how Nationwide was dealing with his investment. He believed 
that it hadnt acted within the requirements of the OGS.  He also said that he didnt accept 
that the quarterly portal information provided a fair substitute for the promised ACR. He 
required the ACR to make informed decisions during his annual reviews  a service he was 
paying for. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and felt it should succeed. He said 
Nationwide should have considered the upset caused to Mr W. He felt that an award of £200 
was appropriate compensation for the failure to supply both the 2019 ACR and the 2020 
ACR. Though he did also consider the concerns Mr W had about associated costs, he didnt 
think any other compensation was appropriate. This was because there was no indication 
that Mr W had suffered any other financial loss. 
Mr W made further comments. He said that our investigators view didnt address that he had 
paid for a service he hadnt received. It also didnt take account of the fact that since he did 
not receive the reports in advance of the annual review meetings, he might have been 
deprived of the opportunity to make changes to his investment and consequentially lost 
money as a result. He said that Nationwide ought to be able to supply dates by which the 
missing reports will be issued, and do the same for the upcoming 2021 report. Finally, he felt 
that Nationwide ought to pay for him to seek independent financial advice on what ought to 
have happened with his investment since 2019.  
Our investigator explained that he could not compel Nationwide to issue dates for the 
missing reports but he was mindful that Nationwide had never issued them. Similarly, he 
could not proportionately reduce Mr Ws fees as these were not broken down in a way that it 
was possible to cost one part of the OGS. However, his proposed award for the upset and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr W took account of Nationwides error as part of the paid 
ongoing service and compensated Mr W appropriately. 
In respect of the proposal for payment of IFA fees, the investigator explained that Mr W was 
being given ongoing financial advice by Nationwide about his investment and therefore it 
wasnt liable to pay for him to seek separate advice elsewhere.  
Nationwide accepted the investigators view and proposal of compensation. However, Mr W 
said he wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. In the interim, Mr W sent a 
subject access request to Nationwide. When this was complete, he supplied our investigator 
with further comments to be passed to the ombudsman. I havent set these out in full, though 
I have read them in their entirety. In summary, Mr W said:
he had now received his 2021 ACR despite the others remaining outstanding;
that report set out in clear terms that the information contained within your ACR is 
specific to you and your investments. It's your chance to make sure they're on track 
and performing how you expect, according to the plans we spoke about at your last 
review;
it follows that the service failing of not providing the ACRs has a wider effect on the 
rest of the OGS;
he has therefore been unduly deprived of the benefits of the OGS for two years;
and on this basis he is not satisfied that Nationwide is able to retain the two annual 
fees he has paid;
if he had known the ACRs would be withheld, he would not have agreed to the fees 
for the OGS;
this service should make a direction for the two missing reports to be supplied by a 
specified date;
it should also direct a refund of the two 0.75% fees paid for 2018 and 2019;he remained of the view that Nationwide should pay for him to seek independent 
financial advice.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am also of the view that this complaint 
ought to succeed. Though I know the proposed compensation will not be what Mr W has 
hoped for, I also agree that the award of £200 is reasonable in the circumstances, taking 
account of the types of award this service makes for inconvenience of this nature. Ill explain 
my reasons for that below.  
Firstly, I note that neither party disputes that Nationwide has done something wrong. 
Specifically, it has failed to send Mr W his 2019 ACR, and by the time the complaint was 
brought to this service, the 2020 ACR. The 2021 ACR has been correctly issued.  
The outstanding issue from Mr W is how this mistake ought to be put right. Nationwide 
apologised but did not offer any compensation. Our investigator concluded why some 
compensation for the trouble and inconvenience that Mr W has suffered was appropriate. Mr 
W believes that this should go further and include a refund of the 0.75% per annum OGS 
charge as well as requiring Nationwide to produce the two missing reports and pay IFA fees.  
When an ombudsman upholds a complaint under the rules applying to this service, it is 
possible to make a direction to a respondent business, that being to take specified steps as 
the ombudsman deems appropriate in relation to the complaint. However, having considered 
Mr Ws request, I dont find I should make a direction of that nature in these circumstances. 
I say that because I am mindful of the remit of this service. We do not act in a capacity as a 
regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. For that reason I cannot, on 
general grounds, interfere with how a business may conduct its internal policies or 
procedures. Instead, our remit is to produce resolutions to complaints that are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge that Nationwide failed to supply the agreed ACRs. I also have to consider 
what the OGS charge requires Nationwide to do by agreement, and specifically what it 
should have done regarding the ACR. Looking at the Tariff of Charges documentation 
supplied to Mr W from the outset, its agreed commitment was we'll send you a personalised 
Annual Customer Report that shows how your Investments are performing. 
I accept that the L&G ACRs and now the 2021 Nationwide ACR go into detail about the 
performance, providing fund commentary, market commentary and reiterating Mr Ws 
attitude to risk from his most recent annual review. However, a great deal of what is 
contained in the ACR will have been discussed at the meetings, which have continued each 
year as agreed. Further, the commitment from Nationwide is to set out investment 
performance, and this was something Mr W was updated on quarterly. Though I understand 
Mr Ws point that these updates werent a substitute for the ACR, they do meet the 
requirement set out above.   
The ongoing correspondence from Nationwide has set out to Mr W that he was not obliged 
to continue the OGS, noting you can cancel the Ongoing Service at any time directly, via 
your FPM, online at www.nationwide.co.uk/ongoing-service by completing the relevant form 
available under the FAQ 'Can I stop this monthly charge?' or by contacting your product 
provider. Taking that into account and factoring in the other aspects of the service that were still being provided, I dont believe it is possible to fairly derive a split of the 0.75% annual 
charge that could be reasonably said to account for one portion of the overall commitment 
for the OGS. Nor do I believe that the failing here is so significant such that a refund of the 
complete annual service charge is warranted.   
Similarly, though I know Mr W wanted this service to ascertain if he had suffered any 
consequential financial loss, there is no objective evidence of that. Mr W still received annual 
reviews and information about his investments performance. I have seen no information to 
lead me to believe that he would have otherwise done something differently such that I could 
conclude Nationwides actions in failing to issue an ACR had reasonably led Mr W to a lost 
opportunity or some tangible financial loss.  
Likewise, I do not believe any type of direction should be made that finds Nationwide 
responsible for the cost of independent financial advice. Mr W remains free to seek that of 
his own volition, but reviews of the investment are part of the OGS which Nationwide has 
provided from the outset, and continues to provide. 
That being said, I can see that these omissions have been upsetting for Mr W. And, like our 
investigator, I believe that Nationwide should have considered a compensation payment to 
Mr W for the fact he had to chase the ACR with his FPM and that he missed out on receiving 
information in a format which aided his ongoing annual reviews. I dont believe an apology 
was sufficient, given Mr Ws specific concerns. 
The types of award this service makes for distress, inconvenience or upset caused as the 
result of a business making some type of error or omission are modest; we do not fine or 
punish businesses. That requires me to consider the impact of the mistake on a 
complainant, rather than compensating for the mistake itself.  
Though Ive seen no evidence that Mr Ws investment was materially or detrimentally 
affected by the failure to supply the two ACRs, this was clearly frustrating for Mr W who 
relied on the referenced information in the reports in order to gain the greatest benefit from 
his annual reviews with the FPM. Whilst Nationwide has now brought this aspect of the 
service back, it remains that Mr W went through two review years without the complete 
information he wanted, albeit that the commitment to updating him about the investment 
performance was satisfied by other online access and quarterly reporting.   
Taking Mr Ws comments and the evidence Ive seen into account, I believe £200 is an 
appropriate award in these circumstances. I believe that sum fairly reflects the loss of 
expectation, disappointment, frustration and inconvenience Mr W has been placed under by 
not having been issued the reports as promised in the two relevant years. 
Putting things right
Taking Mr Ws comments and the evidence Ive seen into account, I believe £200 is an 
appropriate award in these circumstances. I believe that sum fairly reflects the loss of 
expectation, disappointment, frustration and inconvenience Mr W has been placed under by 
not having been issued the reports as promised in the two relevant years.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr W £200 for the inconvenience he has been 
caused, for the reasons stated above. I make no other award or direction.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman