DRN-3801498
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint concerns a claim under legal expenses cover in a Home Insurance 
policy underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
References to Aviva include the acts and conduct of agents acting on its behalf in handling 
and administrating the claim.
What happened
I issued a provision decision to the parties on 20 October 2022 explaining why I wasnt 
upholding the complaint. For ease Ive copied below that decision in italics:
Theres a detailed background to the circumstances, which the parties are aware of, so Ill 
only give a summary:
Miss Ms claim for legal cover relates to an invasive plant species
She had instructed solicitors and the litigation reached settlement before trial.
(amended) An amount was agreed and her solicitors took the majority in fees giving 
Miss M a little over £10,000 in compensation.
Miss M has two main concerns:
oShe believes the level of indemnity cover should be £100,000 and not the 
£50,000 that Aviva applied to the claim.
oShe believes Aviva should pay her more money as legal fees have come out of 
her settlement which she doesnt feel is fair.
oThere are other issues around communication and claim handling, but these are 
not the thrust of the merits of the complaint.
Avivas position is that the indemnity limit for the claim is £50,000 because the event the 
claim relates to first arose in September 2013 when Miss M noticed the invasive plant in a 
neighbours garden and an alleyway at the back of her property. She had apparently become 
aware after receiving information from a specialist contractor treating the species. And at this 
point the limit was £50,000 only changing to £100,000 at renewal in December 2013.
On the legal costs, Aviva pointed to various matters such as the solicitors acting and 
incurring costs without its knowledge where costs needed to be assessed and the costs 
assessor was waiting for Miss Ms solicitors to provide relevant information. So, it wasnt a 
case that Aviva was refusing costs just that it needed to assess what would fall to be paid 
under the policy.
Our investigator explained her opinion that Aviva had acted fairly. She was persuaded that 
the identification of the species in September 2013 and circumstances around that was the 
first event in the series and so Miss M was aware there was something that could lead to a 
dispute. And as such, £50,000 was the correct indemnity limit.
On the division of the agreed settlement, the investigator was satisfied this was a matter 
between Miss M and the solicitors as Aviva had no involvement. She also said the instructed 
solicitors were made aware by Aviva that all authorised legal fees would be subject to a 
costs assessment at the end of the claim. At the point the complaint was made though the 
solicitors hadnt sent the relevant information to be assessed and this wasnt Avivas fault. 
But the investigator said shed expect Aviva to continue to chase updates and arrange for 
the claim to be settled.
Miss M disagreed, in summary saying:
oThe issue of knowledge of the event concerns knowledge of encroachment not 
existence. And encroachment to her property was only known after December 
2013 and so £100,000 is the correct indemnity limit.
oWhile the species was in the jointly owned and communal alleyway it wasnt in 
her section.
oAlthough the solicitors are said to have dropped her case, they continued to act 
for her in the claim.
oPanel solicitors had never acted for her, but she had asked for a Part 36 offer to 
be made.
oAviva had said the limit was £100,000 and didnt communicate a change in that 
view for around three years and should honour that.
oBecause of the late notification of the indemnity limit, she has suffered severe 
financial consequences including having to sell a property at a loss of around 
£100,000.
oHer solicitors are unaware of any outstanding requests from Aviva for information 
on costs.
oThe case was straightforward and only because of Avivas poor handling did it 
take so long. All costs incurred have been reasonable.
Miss M has asked that her complaint be determined by an Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy limit
The starting place for my consideration is the insurance policy itself. The relevant part to 
start with concerns the relevant date as to whether the £50,000 or £100,000 indemnity limit 
applies. Generally, the policy covers any costs and expenses incurred in respect of legal 
proceedings arising from an insured event. Theres no dispute that the subject claim was an 
insured event.
Further definitions in the policy state costs and expenses that are reasonable and necessary legal costs charged by the appointed representative and agreed by Aviva. Importantly, the 
event which is subject of the claim is defined and includes:
The incident or the first in a series of incidentswhich, in [Avivas] reasonable 
opinion, could lead to a claim being made
Miss Ms claim relates to an invasive plant species encroaching her property curtilage. Her 
position is that merely noticing the species was present in a neighbours property and the 
alleyway (which is a very narrow strip of land between properties) doesnt equate to a cause 
of action or knowledge that a claim may be made. Rather, in Miss Ms view, the event is the 
encroachment and that wasnt apparent until after the policy renewed in December 2013 
when the indemnity limit had increased.
Having considered all the information carefully I am persuaded that the correct indemnity 
limit is, as Aviva states, £50,000. A specialist was commissioned by Miss M to report on the 
matter of the species in her locality. In that report there is a photograph with the following 
caption:
Figure 10. Taken in Nov 2013  [species] growing from [neighbour address] into 
[Miss Ms address]. (My emphasis)
There are references in that report such as Miss M being aware the species had been in the 
area after being advised by a contractor in the previous year. I dont know for sure the 
provenance of the photograph referred to above, but it appears in a report commissioned by 
Miss M. Its apparent from all the information Ive seen that Miss M was aware of the species 
presence from before December 2013 and the treatment by a specialist contractor started in 
September 2013. The timing of this with the photograph taken in November 2013 satisfies 
me, on the balance of probabilities, that Miss M was aware of encroachment to her property 
in the policy year having the lower indemnity limit. So, even on her own belief that 
encroachment is the relevant date, and for which Im satisfied she was aware, the correct 
indemnity limit is £50,000.
Communicating the wrong limit
Ive carefully thought about the fact that Aviva represented to Miss M and her solicitors that 
the limit was higher. As with all policies like Miss Ms there is a requirement that any claim 
must have reasonable prospects of success. For Miss M this means that it is always more 
likely than not she will, among other things, recover damages which are higher than any 
costs and expenses which may be incurred. Therefore, any claim is reviewed throughout its 
life to ensure it always has prospects of success.
Miss M refers to a Part 36 offer she wanted to make of £26,000 and an expert saying 
damages worth at least £36,000. Her solicitors projected costs increased throughout the 
claim and around January 2020 were £65,000+. This was almost double the possible 
damages recoverable albeit I appreciate damages could have been more or less. Under the 
prospect of success assessment, even if the limit of indemnity should have been £100,000 
Aviva may well have refused to cover continuance because the legal costs were significantly 
outstripping the potential damages. And in everything Miss M has presented theres nothing 
that persuades me conduct of the case would have been different.
Costs assessment / Miss Ms losses
Im not aware of the current position about a costs assessment, albeit I have seen 
correspondence that suggests a costs assessor concluded reasonable costs under the 
policy amounted to just over £21,000 and this has been communicated to Miss M. But its not part of the original complaint that came to us. Inevitably, as we investigate cases, and 
they go through various stages circumstances may change. But my review is limited here to 
what Aviva had done up to when the complaint was made.
The Court Order (detail amended) states its in full and final settlement of damages, costs, 
disbursement and interest. Miss Ms solicitors appear to have unilaterally determined how 
that amount would be split and what amount she would receive as damages. Until and 
unless the entirety of the costs issue is assessed and given a final determination, what were 
reasonably incurred legal costs and disbursements and payable under the policy cant be 
finalised by Aviva. I recognise though that Aviva may have issued a final assessment.
Aviva had nothing to do with how Miss Ms solicitors divided the settlement, and under the 
policy only need to cover costs and expenses that are reasonable and necessary legal costs 
charged by the appointed representative and which it has agreed to. Miss Ms solicitors 
apparently informed Aviva that they were no longer acting for Miss M due to a breakdown in 
relationship, and so Aviva instructed panel solicitors. The solicitors nonetheless continued to 
act for Miss M but without Avivas agreement. In addition, one of the policy conditions is that 
Miss M must notify Aviva immediately if anyone offers to settle a claim. From everything 
Miss M has sent us I havent seen anything that suggests she or her appointed solicitor 
informed Aviva (or its agents) of the defendants offer to settle her claim. Rather it appears 
she only advised this after accepting the settlement. Taking this into account Im unable to 
reasonably find that Aviva has acted unfairly in limiting costs to those which it had 
authorised, and which were reasonable and necessary. It seems to me that if a final costs 
determination hasnt been reached, thats what Aviva needs to do.
Replies to my provisional decision
I havent seen a reply from Aviva, but Miss M has sent a detailed response. In summary, 
Miss M takes issue and disagrees with various aspects and while Ive read her reply of 14 
numbered paragraphs in full, the main aspects are as follows:
A concern about what we publish publicly and my reference to invasive weed 
together with the relevant date for indemnity.
Avivas agent using up funds of the indemnity limit.
Her solicitors did not continue to act after March 2020, and she had advised Avivas 
agent of a pending offer from the defendant in June 2020.
Her solicitors rejected an offer in August 2020 without consulting her and the final 
consent order and offer wasnt accepted until the start of the trial. The policy at the 
time didnt require Aviva to be notified of any offers.
A costs assessment isnt a separate issue given the original complaint was that Aviva 
had refused to pay any costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the matter afresh, and including Miss Ms reply, Im not persuaded to 
change my view on what I consider to fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The fact I 
havent referred to every point Miss M has raised isnt intended to be discourteous but reflect 
the informal nature of our service.We have a statutory obligation to publish our final decisions and so its this document that 
will be published. Im satisfied that we can do so without identifying the parties but to 
reassure Miss M I have made some amendments to some details in my provisional decision 
copied above. These amendments concern the specifics of the court settlement.
Ive referred to invasive weed simply because specifying the actual name could provide a 
means of triangulating the identity of the parties but at all times in my consideration of this 
complaint, Im fully aware of the genus involved. 
I remain satisfied that on the balance of probabilities Miss M was aware of the species 
before December 2013 and so the limit of indemnity was £50,000. While she says she finds 
that offensive, that isnt my intention. Ive based my conclusion on this point on the evidence 
and as I referred to in my provisional decision:
A specialist was commissioned by Miss M to report on the matter of the species in 
her locality. In that report there is a photograph with the following caption:
Figure 10. Taken in Nov 2013  [species] growing from [neighbour address] 
into [Miss Ms address]. (My emphasis)
There are references in that report such as Miss M being aware the species had 
been in the area after being advised by a contractor in the previous year. I dont know 
for sure the provenance of the photograph referred to above, but it appears in a 
report commissioned by Miss M. Its apparent from all the information Ive seen that 
Miss M was aware of the species presence from before December 2013 and the 
treatment by a specialist contractor started in September 2013. The timing of this 
with the photograph taken in November 2013 satisfies me, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Miss M was aware of encroachment to her property in the policy 
year having the lower indemnity limit.
The legal expenses cover insures Miss M against any costs and expenses incurred in 
respect of events covered by the policy. Theres no evidence that suggests Miss M is out of 
pocket in relation to those costs covered. Her solicitors recovered their costs and fees 
through the agreed settlement and so on the face of it theres nothing for Aviva to pay. 
Miss Ms costs in treating the subject problem have seemingly been covered in the solicitors 
division of the agreed settlement. Therefore, the only logical benefit Miss M could want is 
financial compensation, which the policy doesnt cover. 
This brings it back to an underlying issue of the indemnity limit and whether Miss M should 
have benefitted from a £100,000 limit such that she believes she should, which may have 
enabled her to go to trial and may have resulted in her receiving compensation if successful. 
I also note Miss M says her primary claim was for an injunction to force the defendant to 
carry out certain work. 
I remain satisfied the policy required Miss M to immediately notify Aviva of any offers to 
settle the claim  that is clearly set out in the Legal Service Conditions section of the policy. 
Trials carry risk that a case can be lost on the merits or expected levels of redress are not 
realised. And, indeed, the costs in running a trial can significantly increase the overall costs 
of litigation and potentially expose the losing party to the other sides costs. Miss M has 
stated in an email to Avivas agent that, in relation to the settlement, it was impossible to get 
the defendant to pay more as they had said they had no further funds and were in financial 
difficulty. She raises an issue that shes insured for legal costs and shouldnt have to pay 
those out of her settlement. Theres also commentary that her solicitors reduced their costs. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the agreed settlement was in full and final settlement of damages, costs, disbursements and interest. Miss Ms solicitors were willing to reduce their 
costs and split the settlement with Miss M accordingly. Im not persuaded that Miss M has 
paid her own legal costs in full or in part such that Aviva has failed to indemnify her. Had 
Aviva paid the costs to the solicitors throughout the litigation process then the costs and 
disbursements as recovered from the defendant would have been paid to Aviva. That would 
have held Miss M harmless in terms of her financial position and shed have received the 
amount her solicitors gave to her in respect of the compensation she actually received.  
As far as I can see from everything provided and what Miss M says, theres nothing that 
shows Miss M is due any further indemnity for legal expenses. The agreed settlement is 
quite clear that the amount wasnt simply compensation in the sense of Miss Ms suffering 
but to cover the entirety of any damages, costs etc. As she hasnt demonstrated shes out of 
pocket in relation to legal expenses I cant make any award here.
The fact that Aviva covered some costs incurred by panel solicitors isnt unusual or unfair 
and so I make no award to Miss M or criticism of Aviva. I can understand that Miss M may 
have been disappointed when Aviva finally confirmed the limit was £50,000 as opposed to 
£100,000 but for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Im not changing my view. 
The fact theres a limit doesnt compel Aviva to use the entirety of it in a claim. How a case 
proceeds where theres legal expenses funding is constantly under review, and Ive 
explained that in my provisional decision. Having thought carefully, Im not satisfied Miss M 
was prejudiced such that she would have realised a materially different outcome.
If Miss M can demonstrate that her solicitors are holding her personally liable for unpaid / 
unrecovered costs, which theyre demanding payment from her, then she should present 
that to Aviva for consideration. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman