DRN-4217758
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy at the amount of charges and fees applied to his account by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC). He doesnt believe the charges fairly reflect the cost of the service 
provided. 
What happened
Mr W complained to HSBC about the charges applied to his account when his account 
became overdrawn. HSBC issued its final response to this in May 2019. Mr W complained 
again to HSBC about this and it issued a further final response on 11 January 2023. 
HSBC didnt agree we could look at Mr Ws complaint about the charges applied to his 
account prior to it issuing its first final response as it wasnt referred to us within six months 
of this and was outside the time limits.  
But HSBC did agree to consider Mr Ws complaint regarding its charges after this period 
from May 2019. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly as there were no signs of financial 
difficulty and HSBC was entitled to charge Mr W when his account became overdrawn. 
Mr W disagreed, he would like a refund of the charges applied to his account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr W has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account  he doesnt 
think the charges reflect the cost of service provided by HSBC and thinks thats unfair. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBC various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr W fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr W unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Ws statements for the period in question from June 
2019, I can see little to suggest that HSBC ought to have realised Mr W might have been 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
Mr Ws statements show that the account was barely used and certainly it doesnt appear to 
be Mr Ws main account  indeed this account has now been closed. The account only 
became overdrawn on a handful of occasions as a result of having insufficient funds to pay 
direct debits. The direct debits were returned which brought his account back into credit and 
HSBC charged a fee for this as per the terms and conditions of the account.  
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr W wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to 
any potential financial difficulty before Mr W raised it. 
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ws account 
was being used. And I dont think that HSBC treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably and this 
means that Im not upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman