DRN-2792305
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Santander UK Plc put a block on her debit card while she was 
overseas
What happened
Miss R was due to travel overseas. Before she left the UK, Miss R informed Santander that 
she was going abroad so that Santander would recognise that usage of her debit card 
overseas was legitimate. However, whilst abroad, Miss R found that she was unable to 
withdraw money on her debit card and had to withdraw money on her credit card instead, 
and incurred interest and fees. Miss R wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
Santander looked at Miss Rs complaint. They explained that the reason the debt card 
withdrawals had been blocked was because Miss R was attempting to withdraw more cash 
than was permitted using the card. So, they didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Miss R wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that Santander 
has acted unfair or unreasonably by not allowing the debit card withdrawals to take place, so 
they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss R had specifically informed Santander that she would be overseas, its 
understandable that it would have been frustrating for her to discover that she was unable to 
withdraw money using her debit card, especially given that her location abroad was 
reasonably remote, meaning that contacting Santander to discuss and rectify the issue was 
problematic.
However, its important to acknowledge that the fact that Miss R was overseas and had 
notified Santander as such doesnt lessen the obligations that Santander as a business have 
regarding monitoring and protecting their customers against potentially fraudulent account 
activity.
Santander have explained to this service that the withdrawals in question were declined 
because Miss R was attempting to withdraw more cash than was permitted on the card, and 
that this triggered potential fraud flags which caused the card to be blocked pending further 
investigation. Santander have also been able to demonstrate that they did try to contact Miss 
R about these withdrawals by telephone but were unable to do so  which is 
understandable, given that Miss R was overseas at the time and found it problematic to 
contact Santander herself.
Santanders explanation here seems reasonable to me, and while I understand that Miss R 
may have been inconvenienced by what took place, I dont feel it would be fair for me to 
censure Santander for taking cautionary steps to protect Miss R against possible account 
fraud. 
Upon discovering that her debit card had been blocked, one course of action that was 
available to Miss R would have been to contact Santander herself in order to discuss what 
had happened and confirm that the attempted withdrawals were authorised by herself. 
Given that Miss R was overseas and that contact with Santander was difficult and potentially 
expensive, its understandable that Miss R chose to withdraw funds using her credit card 
instead. But Miss R was aware of the terms and conditions of using her credit card, including 
that interest and fees would be applied, and so I dont feel that I can fairly ask Santander to 
reimburse the interest and fees that Miss R incurred here, as she would like.
Ultimately, its difficult for me to conclude that Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
any way here. The withdrawals that Miss R attempted to make were blocked on the basis of 
fraud protection, and Santander attempted to contact Miss R following the attempted 
withdrawals to obtain confirmation of whether they were authorised by her or not  albeit 
without success. And Santanders actions are in line with what this service would expect 
them to have done here, given the circumstances.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss R was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Santander to take any further action at this time. 
I hope that Miss R can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman