DRN-4160004
The complaint
Ms A complained that Vitality Health Limited declined her private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Ms A has had private medical insurance with Vitality and its predecessors for many years. 
Her cover is on a continued personal medical exclusions basis. In 2009 Ms A had breast 
reconstructive surgery following a cancer diagnosis which her insurance covered.
In May 2022 Ms A asked Vitality to authorise a claim for tests and treatment relating to a 
swelling in her breast which she said might be due to her breast implant from the 2009 
surgery. Vitality agreed to cover investigative tests and related consultations. But it told Ms A 
that it would need to see a medical report from her consultant before it could agree cover for 
further treatment as if the swelling was due to her breast implant it might not be able to cover 
that treatment.
In mid December 2022 Ms A sent her consultants report to Vitality. Her consultant had 
advised her to have the breast implant removed.
Vitality declined to pay for the surgery. It said Ms As claim wasnt covered under the policy 
terms about reconstructive surgery (cancer). It accepted it had delayed in responding to 
Ms A and in assessing her claim and paid her £450 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor service had caused. 
Ms A complained to us. In summary she said:
Vitality unfairly declined her claim for surgery. The reconstructive surgery policy 
terms are irrelevant to her case as she wasnt asking Vitality to pay for a breast 
reconstruction, even though her consultant suggested a replacement implant as an 
option. 
The investigative tests didnt show any problems within the implant. Her consultant 
told her that an implant, being a foreign body, is likely to trigger a chronic 
inflammation with acute episodes of swelling and pain which usually settle. Following 
her extremely painful flare-up in 2022, which didnt resolve, her consultant said the 
only way to solve the inflammation was to remove the implant.
She believes Vitality should cover her claim under the chronic conditions policy terms 
and pay for the treatment to remove her breast implant as that should stop the acute 
flare-up of her chronic condition.
She expected Vitality, whose obligation should be to provide her with prompt 
treatments, to cover her. She hadnt been clearly told that the acute inflammation 
from her chronic condition wouldnt be covered unless it was within five years 
following the original reconstructive surgery.
Our investigator said Vitality had reasonably declined the claim and that the £450 
compensation payment for its poor service was fair.
Ms A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She emphasised her belief that 
Vitality had assessed her claim under the wrong policy terms. She clarified that she wasnt 
complaining to us about Vitalitys service as she accepted Vitalitys compensation payment 
for that matter.
Ms A cancelled her policy with Vitality at the end of 2022. She said she couldnt pay for her 
policy premiums and surgery if Vitality wasnt going to cover the treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im sorry to read that Ms A has been in a lot of pain and has been very distressed by her 
situation. Shes said Vitality has an obligation to cover the surgery she wants to have. But an 
insurance policy doesnt cover every situation a policyholder finds themselves in. The policy 
sets out the terms and conditions which include the risks an insurer wants to insure and 
these are the contract of insurance between the insurer and the policyholder. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms A but I think Vitality reasonably declined her authorisation for 
surgery claim so I dont uphold her complaint. 
Vitality has referred to the following policy terms when declining the claim:
Reconstructive surgery (cancer)
We will cover initial reconstructive surgery necessary following surgery to remove a 
tumour. We will also cover reconstructive surgery necessary following the removal of 
healthy tissue for preventive reasons, providing the preventive surgery is eligible on 
this plan.
The reconstructive surgery must take place within five years of the original surgery to 
remove the tumour or tissue. If there are immediate complications arising from the 
initial reconstructive surgery, we will also cover the treatment to deal with those 
complications.
However, we will not cover surgery at a later point to correct a reconstruction, 
regardless of the reason it is required.
We will not cover more than one reconstructive surgical procedure to the same part 
of the body.
Ms A says as shes asking Vitality to only cover the removal of the breast implant the above 
policy terms dont apply to her. Shes referred to the following policy wording in the 
Exclusions  whats not covered chronic (long term) conditions section:
Your plan covers the cost of treatment for acute conditions. These are conditions 
that respond quickly to treatment which aims to return you to the state of health you 
were in before suffering the condition, or which leads to your full 
recovery. 
What if my (chronic) condition gets worse?If your condition gets worse and you suffer an acute flare-up of a chronic condition, 
then we may cover the treatment necessary to return you to the state of health you 
were in before your condition worsened.
Ms A says Vitality should authorise the removal of the implant which would return her to the 
state of health before the episodes of acute inflammation of her chronic condition occurred.
Ms As consultants report of 8 December 2022 says:
(Ms A) has had a further flare-up with effusion around the expander device and is 
now having increasing problems and this will require to be addressed surgically.
I have again discussed the question of removal of the expander devise and 
replacement with a definitive anatomical cohesive gel implant. The initial devise was 
of course part of her cancer treatment and was not undertaken as a cosmetic 
procedure, but as a reconstructive procedure following mastectomy.
Even if I agreed with Ms A that she had an acute flare-up up of a chronic condition, in 
accordance with the policy definitions, the medical evidence is that the cause of her 
condition is the implant she had as part of her reconstructive surgery following her cancer. 
There are specific policy terms where a policyholder has had that procedure as Ive set out 
above. I think those policy terms are clearly set out in the policy document. As Ms As claim 
arises from the reconstructive surgery I think Vitality reasonably assessed her claim under 
the reconstructive surgery (cancer) policy terms.
Ms As choice not to have the replacement breast implant, an implant which shes discussed 
with her consultant, doesnt mean that the procedure just to remove the initial implant is 
covered.
Vitalitys managing director highlighted the relevant paragraph of the reconstructive surgery 
policy terms in his letter of 24 February 2023 to Ms A:
If there are immediate complications arising from the initial reconstructive surgery, we will 
also cover the treatment to deal with those complications. However, we will not cover 
surgery at a later point to correct a reconstruction, regardless of the reason it is required.
Vitality said that paragraph of the policy wording meant it only covered immediate 
complications from the implant used in the initial reconstruction.
The implant used in the initial reconstructive surgery is the cause of Ms As inflammation and 
as she had the reconstructive surgery in 2009 it was 13 years before she contacted Vitality 
to authorise treatment to correct the complication. So I think Vitality reasonably considered 
her authorisation claim wasnt for an immediate complication of the surgery.
The policy is clear that Vitality wont cover surgery at a later point to correct a reconstruction, 
regardless of the reason its required. So under the policy terms Ms As claim isnt covered 
whether or not she has a replacement implant after the removal of the implant which has 
caused the complication.  
Im satisfied that Ms As claim isnt covered under the relevant policy terms. Given the 
13 year period of time between the initial reconstructive surgery and Ms As claim to remove 
the implant causing the complication I dont think theres any basis on which I can fairly and 
reasonably say Vitality should cover the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman