DRN-4086420
The complaint
Miss M complains about HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited. Shes unhappy that she 
hasnt earned any interest on two accounts she holds with them.
What happened
Miss M holds two investments with HBOS - a Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP) and an 
Investment ISA. She complained to HBOS in 2022 and said that she was unhappy with the 
level of service she received when she visited her local branch. She also raised concerns 
about the value of her investments as she thought they were considerably lower than what 
she expected. 
HBOS looked into the concerns she had raised and confirmed that the balance of her 
investments was accurate. But they apologised for the poor service shed received in the 
branch and offered her £50 in compensation. 
Miss M accepted their findings about the level of service shed received but asked them to 
look at the matter of her account balances again. She remained of the opinion that the 
balances should be higher and asked for the accounts to be closed. HBOS investigated her 
concerns and reiterated that her balances were correct, they also told her what she needed 
to do to close the accounts.  
Miss M subsequently asked for our help with the matter. She explained that she was 
concerned that she hadnt been receiving any interest on the investments she held with 
HBOS and wanted to transfer her accounts to another bank.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think HBOS had done anything 
wrong. She explained to Miss M that her investments didnt earn interest but instead their 
value was dependent on the stock market so their values could fluctuate. She also explained 
what Miss M needed to do in order to close her accounts.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsman to review 
the complaint, so it has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. Id 
firstly like to clarify that this decision is solely looking at the issue of whether or not any 
interest is due on Miss Ms investments and if the balances are accurate. If Miss M has 
concerns about the sale or suitability of the investments, then she firstly needs to raise this 
with HBOS so they can investigate the matter and issue their findings. If she is unhappy with 
their response, she can ask us to look into the matter.
Miss M holds two investments with HBOS - an investment ISA and a guaranteed investment 
plan (GIP). The investment ISA was opened in 2006 and payments were made into it up until 
2008. The value of this account will fluctuate as it made up of stocks and shares whose 
value will rise and fall over time. No interest is due on this account, so I dont think HBOS 
have acted unfairly here. 
The GIP was opened in 2003 with a lump sum investment of £44,614. It differs from a 
traditional savings account in that the initial amount invested is used to purchase units in a 
fund, and it is the total current value of these units that makes up the balance of the GIP. 
This is unlike a traditional savings account where interest is calculated as a percentage of 
the value of the account. Therefore, I cant say HBOS have done anything wrong in not 
adding any interest onto the account as none is due.
The GIP also carries two guarantees - the first is from the fifth anniversary of the plan where 
there is a guaranteed return of at least the amounts invested minus any money taken out 
already. The second is to increase that payment to 80% of the highest value the fund ever 
reached, if that is greater than the amount invested. 
I note that HBOS have told Miss M that her GIP hasn't grown for a while and isn't likely to 
grow in the future. Given this, I would strongly suggest that Miss M speaks to an 
independent financial advisor to discuss her investments and her future options. They will be 
able to discuss moving her investments to an account that pays traditional interest if that is 
what Miss M wants. 
So, in summary, I dont think HBOS have treated Miss M unfairly by not adding any interest 
to her investments. Miss M has also now confirmed that she wishes to keep the accounts 
open, so HBOS do not need to do anything further in regards to closing her accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman