DRN-3223517
The complaint
Mr B says IG Markets Limited (IG) is responsible for his financial loss and loss of 
opportunity resulting from margin call close-outs, on 9 March 2020, of open Glencore, 
Barclays and BP positions in his IG trading account. He mainly says:
IG failed to give him prior notice of margin breach/close-outs as he was entitled to. 
[issue 1]
There was an error in IGs payments/funding system that made it unfit for purpose at 
the time and that prevented him from funding his account in the morning of 9 March 
2020 to stop/mitigate the close-outs. This unfairly defeated the responsibility IG 
placed upon account holders like him to manage margin in the account. IG concedes 
this system fault; operation of the system was completely under its control and 
responsibility (not a third partys); none of its terms of business disclaim liability in this 
respect; and it is obliged to make good the losses he has incurred because the 
system fault prevented him from mitigating the close-outs. In addition, he tried to get 
through to IG by telephone at the time but that too was impossible. [issue 2]
The close-outs were badly applied to his position, in a way that failed to minimise his 
losses  minimal losses could have been achieved by closing positions that would 
have liberated more margin to keep others open. [issue 3]
IG disputes the complaint. It has offered Mr B £500 in compensation for the system error 
matter in issue 2, but it says his claim for hypothetical financial loss in the issue is baseless.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She issued an initial view and then 
considered both parties responses to her view  and to additional queries she put to them. 
Thereafter, she issued a second view. In both views, she concluded that the complaint 
should not be upheld. Overall, she said:
There is no merit in disputing the margin call and none in issue 1. The terms for the 
account and the margin related requirements (for retail clients, like Mr B, trading 
Contracts for Differences) set by the European Securities and Markets Authority 
(ESMA) provided that he had to maintain over 50% of Required Margin (RM) in the 
account, otherwise close-outs can/will be applied to open positions in the account. 
The close-outs happened when equity in his account dropped to 49% of RM, so they 
were legitimately triggered and applied. IGs terms and website gave no undertaking 
that prior notice of close-outs would be given to account holders, they referred to IG 
endeavouring to give such notice but they also stated that this was not guaranteed 
and that this would be unlikely where the margin breach happens swiftly  and in Mr 
Bs case the breach happened in a matter of seconds.
There is also no merit in issue 3. IG had no obligation to analyse Mr Bs open 
positions in order to determine a cost-effective approach to the close-outs. Instead, it 
had to act quickly with the close-outs, in response to the margin breach and to fast 
moving/time sensitive market conditions, so the approach that Mr B would have 
preferred would not have been viable or reasonable in the circumstances. IG 
operated a first in first out approach to the close-outs, which is not uncommon in the 
sector. Furthermore, the notion of IG taking a methodical approach to the close-outs 
could have undermined its execution only service.
IG concedes its responsibility for the system error in issue 2 and it has offered 
reasonable compensation of £500 to Mr B in this respect. He claims financial 
loss/lost opportunity with regards to the positions he could have kept open, for the 
long term (and on more favourable financing terms than he would get if he reopened 
them after the close-outs), but for the system error preventing him from funding his 
account (after the close-outs began). However, his positions were already running 
losses; he says he would have kept them open for as long as necessary until they 
showed profits and that his trading strategy was to hold positions long term; but 
evidence of his past trading shows his use of a mixed strategy (long and short term 
trades) so this does not support his assertion as he has presented it; IG has referred 
to evidence that, since the close-outs, he has not re-opened any of the positions that 
were closed; evidence of what he would have done can be found in evidence of what 
he actually did, so the fact that he has not re-opened the positions (and despite his 
explanation that he did not do so because he sought to avoid higher financing costs) 
does not support his claim that he had a long term plan for them; and evidence about 
the potential financing costs to maintain the positions up to around late 2021  based 
on the prices of the positions around that time and because, in the main, those prices 
had yet to recover past the opening prices for his positions  suggests his claim 
was/is not viable.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome. He maintained his claims in the complaint issues, as 
summarised above, and he stressed that IG had failed to uphold a duty of care to ensure the 
payment system was fit for purpose  with regards to which he noted that IG had 
experienced similar system outages in the 12 months prior to March 2020 but had 
nevertheless neglected to upgrade its system. IG agreed with the investigators conclusions, 
which broadly upheld its main submissions in the matter. A referral was then made to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that the investigator gave Mr Bs case thorough treatment and 
a fair assessment. I have reached the same conclusion that she reached and I share the 
same reasons that she gave  I endorse both and incorporate them into this decision.
It would appear that the thrust of Mr Bs arguments and submissions, after the investigators 
views, focused on issue 2. I consider that a sensible approach on his part because the facts 
of his case simply do not lend themselves to the notion of upholding issues 1 and 3. 
As the investigator said, the terms for his account and the relevant ESMA requirements 
meant that upon equity in his account dropping to 49% of RM, as it did, a margin breach 
happened and margin call close-outs of his positions  triggered by that breach  could and 
were to be applied. I consider that his reference to expecting prior notice of the close-outs is 
sincere. However the provisions for such notice, as set out across IGs website and its terms 
for the account, made it clear that IG was not obliged to give such notice, that it would 
endeavour to give such notice where it can, that there was no guarantee in this respect and 
that such notice would be unlikely particularly where the margin breach happens swiftly. Available evidence is that the margin breach in Mr Bs account happened within a few 
seconds  as can often be the case in leveraged trading. Overall, there are no grounds to 
uphold issue 1.
The same applies to issue 3  there are no grounds to uphold it. Primarily, the management 
of Mr Bs open positions was his sole responsibility, as was the monitoring of his trading 
account (including the open positions and the state of margin in the account). IG did not 
share that responsibility and there was nothing in its terms for the account that said it would 
conduct margin close-outs in a manner suitable for him. A margin call close-out is not the 
same as closing a position as part of trading management. Its purpose is to address the risk 
(for the firm and the accountholder) of trading losses going beyond a particular/set margin 
allowance, potentially going beyond the accountholders financial means and potentially 
getting out of control. The management of open positions, in terms of analysing and 
selecting which to close in order to create or maximise opportunity for others to progress, 
does not feature in this context. As the investigator said, the first in first out approach to 
close-outs is not uncommon in the sector. Other approaches (such as last in first out) are 
also used. These approaches usually share the characteristic of seeking to apply an 
objective basis on which close-outs can happen. To analyse Mr Bs position to the extent of 
selecting a particular one to close in order to create margin capacity for the others to 
progress would arguably have been tantamount to trading management by IG, which was 
beyond the execution only service it delivered for his account.
IG has conceded that it had a payment/funding system problem on 9 March 2020 and it does 
not appear to deny responsibility for that. In these respects, Mr Bs submissions are correct 
and they are also not in dispute. What is in dispute is the nature of redress for the problems 
effect on Mr B on that date (and/or thereafter). 
IG essentially says the problem caused him no more than trouble and upset  for which it 
offered £500 compensation  and that it did not cause him a financial loss because the 
relevant positions were already making losses at the time of the close-outs; and because, 
even if hindsight is applied to the matter, up to late 2021 and despite the passage of time 
since the positions were closed (in March 2020) the market prices for them had never 
recovered past their opening prices; in some cases prices dropped further; so no future 
profits were lost in his case; and it could be said that the close-outs saved Mr B future 
greater losses. In contrast, Mr B says he mainly had a long-term holding strategy for his 
trading; he would have treated the relevant positions no differently; he would have held unto 
them until they went into profit; and this was feasible because they were opened on more 
favourable financing terms that made the costs of keeping them open (for as long as 
needed) affordable.
The facts relevant to this dispute lean favourably towards IGs position more than they do 
towards Mr Bs. It is fair to say his position rests mainly on a hypothesis  one that, as the 
investigator noted, faces legitimate doubting questions posed by evidence of him having 
used a mixture of short term and long term holding strategies in the past (not the consistent 
long term strategy he has claimed/suggested) and by evidence of him not reopening the 
positions despite his claim that he would have continued to speculate on them and planned 
to keep them open for as long as necessary, but for the close-outs and the payment system 
problem. I too consider that his hypothesis arguably falls in the face of these facts.
Furthermore, the fact is that the positions were closed in March 2020; their prices do not 
appear to have recovered past their opening or closing levels for the rest of 2020, so no loss 
of opportunity for profit was incurred in this respect; in the main, their prices also do not 
appear to have recovered past their opening levels for much of 2021 (until, it seems, around 
October 2021); so from March 2020 and at least until around October 2021 no loss of 
opportunity for profit was incurred. I have not seen evidence on which to conclude that it was more likely (than not) that Mr B would have maintained the same positions for 19 months (or 
more) after March 2020. 
Mr Bs claim invites me to assume that he would have kept the positions open for however 
long he needed to in order to make profits on them, but for the reasons given above I do not 
consider such an assumption to be safe and I do not consider that, based on the balance of 
facts and available evidence, this was a likely (or a more likely than not) scenario.
Mr B is correct that IG should make good for the system problem and, in the context of his 
case, the two main heads of such reparation are compensation for financial loss and 
compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused by the problem. There is no basis to 
award him compensation for financial loss  for the reasons given above (and for the 
additional reason that quantum for his claim in this respect appears to be just as hypothetical 
as the claim itself)  and I am not persuaded that IG should give him more than the £500 it 
has offered him for trouble and upset. It is not an unreasonable offer in the circumstances, 
given that the system problem was remote to the close-outs and that the close-outs and his 
inability to fund the account (and maintain some of the positions) appear to have 
inadvertently saved Mr B from greater losses in the positions. I am also satisfied that the 
offer reasonably extends to covering the trouble and upset caused to him by being unable to 
reach IG on the telephone on 9 March 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman