DRN-2750301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) settled their claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have annual multi trip travel insurance as a benefit with a bank account. They 
had initially planned a cruise in Asia which was unfortunately cancelled so they changed 
their plans to travel to the USA in March 2020  with cruises included in the package. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs W were advised not to travel by their doctor and so they made the 
decision to cancel the trip. The cruise company applied cancellation charges to the bookings 
and refunded some of the cost to Mr and Mrs W. It also offered Mr and Mrs W credits for 
future cruises totalling nearly £2000. 
A claim was submitted to UKI for the total amount not refunded. The claim was accepted, 
and a settlement made, but it didnt include payment for the credits. UKI said Mr and Mrs W 
were not suffering a financial loss as they had been offered a credit for this amount. It 
referred to the policy which says it doesnt cover costs that can be recovered elsewhere.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs W complained and brought their case to our 
service. They said that the credits were simply a gesture of goodwill being offered by the 
cruise company. They also said that, due to the current situation, they didnt intend to travel 
on a cruise again. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He said that the policy terms and conditions enable UKI to refuse a claim 
for costs that you can recover elsewhere. He found that the credits should be classed as a 
form of refund and therefore a recovered loss.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigator and, as no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. UKI has settled some of the claim - so the 
circumstances of the cancellation are not in dispute. But what I need to consider is whether 
UKI has acted reasonably by not reimbursing the sum for the cruise credits offered.
The relevant part of the travel insurance policy that Mr and Mrs W took out with UKI states 
the following;
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
 1 Recoverable costs.
The full explanation of the specific exclusion above is detailed as follows:
1. Recoverable costs
Any costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
UKI has said that, as Mr and Mrs W have been given credits to use for another trip, the cost 
is recoverable  and therefore not covered by the policy. But Mr and Mrs W say the credits 
arent part of the refund, but a goodwill gesture offered as an incentive by the cruise 
company to encourage them to make a future booking. Ive thought about this point carefully, 
but Im not persuaded that UKI needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
From looking at Mr and Mrs Ws policy terms and conditions it, like most, if not all, travel 
insurance policies on the market, only provides cover for irrecoverable costs. This is 
because insurance is designed to indemnify the policyholder only if they are unable to 
reclaim their losses from any other source. Mr and Mrs W have been given an option to 
recover their money, by redeeming the credits against a cruise in the future. Im therefore 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs W have been provided a refund, by way of credits for this portion 
of their trip  even if this has been provided as a gesture of goodwill or to incentivise them to 
book in the future. If I was to instruct UKI to settle the claim for the value of the credits, this 
would put Mr and Mrs W in a better position than they were in prior to the cancellation of the 
trip as theyd have the benefit of a full cash refund and the value of the vouchers. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W might prefer to get a cash refund for these costs. 
Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain. From what I 
understand these credits are valid for a further 18 months, and Mr and Mrs W may change 
their view on travelling. So, I dont consider the terms of the vouchers to be so restrictive that 
it would be unfair to expect Mr and Mrs W to accept them. But in any case, as Ive explained 
above, I think its fair for UKI to consider that Mr and Mrs W havent suffered a financial loss 
in this case.
Overall, when taking everything into account, Im satisfied that these credits are a 
recoverable loss and UKI has acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining to pay this part of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman