DRN-2695303
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how he was treated by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) when he wanted to extend his hire purchase agreement. He wants £500 in 
compensation.
What happened
In 2017 Mr C got a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. The 
agreement was due to last 30 months. In May 2020 BMWFS allowed him to extend the 
agreement by three months due to the global pandemic. As this extension neared its end, 
Mr C looked into his options. He told us these included: buying the car; using the equity in it 
as part payment for a newer car; extending the finance; or handing it back.
 
In August 2020, Mr C called BMWFS to talk about extending the finance. He said he agreed 
verbally an interest rate of 6.9%. But when he didnt receive the expected documents to sign, 
he called back. Mr C said BMWFS now demanded information about private companies and 
wanted to see his last tax return.
 
Mr C wasnt happy with this and complained to BMWFS. He said, among other things, that 
he didnt now want to apply for any finance from BMWFS but was concerned that his credit 
rating could be affected. Mr C also said that a contract had been verbally agreed and hed 
relied on this.
 
BMWFS didnt uphold the complaint. Briefly, it said a verbal quotation was given to Mr C and 
his application had been passed to its underwriters to do credit and affordability checks. 
BMWFS went on to say that, as Mr C hadnt been happy to provide the information it had 
asked for, his application hadnt completed. A such, there was no legally binding contract.
 
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service.  He said he hadnt been 
asked for this information when he originally took out the agreement back in 2017. Mr C also 
told us hed been offered finance on another car by a different BMW office and he hadnt 
been asked for any details of private companies or about cash coming from these. He said 
BMWFS approach to finance is inconsistent at the very least. Mr C repeated that a verbal 
contract was in place.  He said such a contract is a contract under English law.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. In 
brief she said BMWFS hadnt done anything wrong by asking for extra information. Our 
investigator explained it had asked for this due to information showing on its credit checks. 
She said BMWFS didnt decline Mr Cs application  hed decided to refinance elsewhere. 
She also said the other finance offer hed received at a different office may have been 
through a different finance provider than BMWFS.
 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He questioned how another BMW office would 
use anyone other than BMWFS. He also disputed the impartiality of our service. Mr C also 
queried BMWFS rationale for asking for further information from him.
 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: did BMWFS do anything wrong when looking at Mr Cs 
application to extend his hire purchase agreement?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every point and argument to be able to reach what I think is a 
fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I can see Mr C has questioned why BMWFS needed further information about his income. 
Its up to individual lenders to decide what information they require when assessing a loan 
application. The rules around this are set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). But these rules dont set out a 
mandatory prescribed list of checks that a lender must complete.
 
Instead, in very general terms, CONC sets out that a lender must undertake a reasonable 
assessment of a customers creditworthiness based on sufficient information that is 
appropriate and proportionate.
 
Here, BMWFS assessment included carrying out credit searches. It also asked Mr C about 
his employment status. He told BMWFS he was a director of two companies  one based 
overseas and one based in the UK. 
I can see that the credit search flagged up some information about the UK based company 
which led to BMWFS wanting to clarify the details around Mr Cs income. So it asked him to 
provide further information. This included asking for a copy of his latest tax return and the 
latest accounts for the UK based company. It also explained why it wanted this information.
 
Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable request for BMWFS to make. If it had a query 
over Mr Cs income, I would expect it to seek clarification of this. I appreciate Mr C might not 
have wanted to provide this information  and I can see he decided to get the finance 
elsewhere. But that was his decision, one he was perfectly entitled to make. That doesnt 
mean BMWFS did anything wrong. Without the requested information, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for it not to take Mr Cs application any further.
 
I know Mr C has pointed out he wasnt asked for any of this when he took the original loan 
out in 2017. As above, its for BMWFS to decide what information it considers to be 
appropriate and proportionate. This can, and will, change over time. It will be affected by 
various factors such as regulatory changes and a lenders risk appetite for example. 
It could be that the credit searches carried out in 2017 didnt flag up anything that BMWFS 
wanted to query. Just because it didnt ask Mr C for this information back then, it doesnt 
mean it did anything wrong by asking for it now. As Ive already said, Im satisfied it was fair 
and reasonable for BMWFS to ask for extra information here.
 Mr C has also told us he was offered finance by another BMW office and wasnt asked for 
any of this information. He said this shows BMWFS approach to finance is inconsistent at 
the very least. I dont agree. I can see it wasnt another BMW office that he spoke to. It was a 
manufacturer approved dealership. This dealership, and the dealership he dealt with in 
2017, are totally separate legal entities to both BMWFS and the actual manufacturer. The 
dealerships arent part of BMWFS in anyway.
In this instance, the dealership would have been acting as a finance broker  not a lender. 
Its told us that while BMWFS would have been its preferred choice of lender, its also able to 
choose other lenders from its panel depending on the individual circumstances.
 
Mr C sent us details of the quote he received from the dealership. The salesperson who 
Mr C dealt with no longer works there. But the dealership did tell us that while there was a 
quote showing on its system, Mr C hadnt taken this proposal forward. So, if he had decided 
to go ahead with this quote, its quite possible Mr C could still have been asked for further 
information as and when the relevant lender carried out further checks. But this is a 
somewhat moot point because, as above, the dealership was acting as a broker, not a 
lender, and it is a totally separate entity to BMWFS.
 
Finally, Ill turn to Mr Cs points about verbal contracts. Ive listened to the call Mr C made to 
BMWFS to discuss extending his finance agreement. It told him what the interest rate would 
be and gave him payment options over four and five years. When Mr C showed an interest 
in the four-year term, BMWFS asked him if he was looking to put forward an application at 
that time. Im satisfied that being asked if he wanted to put forward an application should 
reasonably have made Mr C aware the finance wasnt guaranteed at this point.
 
BMWFS went on to explain to him he would be sent documents by email once hed been 
accepted for the finance as the application needed to go for a credit search. It also told him 
that to progress the application, BMWFS would carry out credit searches and it gave Mr C 
details of the credit reference agencies it would use. Again, Im satisfied this should 
reasonably have made Mr C aware the finance hadnt been accepted and wasnt 
guaranteed.
 
I agree with Mr C that, in certain situations, a verbal contract can be a valid one. But its not 
for our service to decide whether such a contract existed here and if Mr C could enforce it. 
Thats a matter for the courts. But I would make the following observation. After listening to 
the call between Mr C and BMWFS, while he was given a quote, there doesnt seem to have 
been any intention for that quote to become legally binding on either side at that point.
 
Taking all the above into account, I dont think BMWFS has done anything wrong here. Im 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable for it to ask Mr C for further information about his income 
after the credit searches flagged up information that BMWFS wanted to clarify. It follows that 
theres no basis for me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman