DRN-3879612
The complaint
Mr L and Miss R are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a 
previous claim repair which they say led to further water damage to their property. This is 
under a home emergency policy.
Ill refer to RSA appointed representatives and third party contractors as RSA to avoid 
confusion.
What happened
Mr L and Miss Rs property had a leak which caused extensive water damage. Mr L did 
some research as he had a similar leak before and couldnt understand why the problem had 
occurred again. RSA had previously replaced an expansion vessel in 2019 when it had 
broken, and it was the same issue again when this leak occurred in 2022. RSA said the part 
was no longer under warranty as more than 12 months had passed. Due to issues with the 
service provided RSA offered £30 compensation. Mr L and Miss R didnt accept this and 
brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said, based on expert comments, it was most 
likely that RSA incorrectly installed the expansion vessel in 2019 leading to the extensive 
water damage in 2022. Our investigator accepted RSAs point that it most likely copied the 
previous installation in 2019 but she felt it should have realised this was incorrect and 
installed the vessel correctly. She said RSA should reimburse the cost paid by Mr L and 
Miss R for the private repair they had carried out subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. She noted the family had to spend time in alternative accommodation due to the 
damage and suffered upheaval, stress, upset and inconvenience over several months. Our 
investigator said RSA should pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. She also said it was unfair that this claim had been logged on the insurance central 
claim database, known as CUE (Claims and Underwriting Exchange). Our investigator said 
RSA should remove the claim record from CUE so future premiums arent affected.
RSA didnt agree with this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because of the leak occurring for a second time Mr L contacted an independent body of 
plumbing experts to get their opinion. He got a response explaining certain technical points 
about his specific system and the expansion vessel.
The expansion vessel must be connected onto the cold-water inlet side/inlet valve has a 
connection for this as this is where the expanded water will travel and not on the hot water 
outlet as was before and can be clearly seen in the image you sent. The pipe capped off 
should not be a T as this provides a dead leg, this ought to be removed and made into a 
socket/straight through pipe (second error). Installation/service must be by a G3 qualified 
installer. The damaged expansion vessels you have had are because of the higher 
temperatures applied at the HW outlet and therefore reducing their life and warranty, hence 
the rupturing and leaking. Expansion tanks should also have a flow through valve. Incorrectly 
installed system/components can lead to a risk of Legionella, as per your system.
Mr L said RSA hadnt correctly checked the installation. He said despite RSA referring to the 
12 month warranty having already run out he wasnt talking about this he was talking about 
the fitting being done incorrectly and this was poor workmanship.
Mr L also got quotes from two plumbers and both said the same thing about the installation 
of the expansion vessel. One plumber said by email:
Manufacturers always state to have the expansion vessel on the cold mains to the cylinder, 
not on the hot side. I personally would say that the hot water would break down the 
diaphragm inside the vessel quicker than if it was on the cold due to the heat.
The plumber who Mr L used after the 2022 claim checked with the manufacturer of the 
system to clarify that the vessel had to be attached to the cold water feed. The manufacturer 
did confirm this was correct.
RSA said in response that it had only done the work in 2019 due to the children living in the 
house, and to deal with the system issues as quickly as possible. It said it should have 
declined the claim in 2019 due to poor workmanship and so it didnt need to take any further 
action now regarding this complaint.
I dont think thats much of a defence. It seems most likely that RSA did copy original 
mistakes when it carried out the work in 2019. But RSA uses its own experts and it should 
have either pointed out the problems and errors and asked Mr L and Miss R to put them right 
in 2019 or it should have put the problem right itself. To refit an incorrect system again 
incorrectly and claim that means it cant be to blame isnt fair and reasonable. Further, to 
claim now that because it did more than it needed to in 2019 means it doesnt have to do 
any more about the 2022 situation is unfair and unreasonable.
I dont know if RSA did work it didnt have to in 2019. But that isnt the issue Im dealing with. 
What is most likely is that RSA did fit the expansion valve wrongly in 2022 and the expert 
opinion shows that is why the system leaked again within this relatively short period. So, I 
think Mr L was right when he suggested this was poor workmanship by RSA.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to reimburse the cost of the private repair 
Mr L and Miss R paid for subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
Also, as its most likely this claim wouldnt have occurred if the work had been done correctly 
first time around RSA should remove the claim record from CUE and any other internal and 
external databases.
compensation
This clearly was a very stressful and upsetting time for the whole family. And 
Mr L and Miss R feel the whole situation couldve been avoided if RSA had dealt with the 
matter correctly first time around. I agree with that. Its most likely the original errors by RSA 
led to this larger and extensive water damage claim occurring to Mr L and Miss Rs family 
home. Due to the leak flooding the property and the danger to the electrics, etc, the family 
had to move out. Their lives were in upheaval for several months. They found the whole situation very stressful for them and their young family. I think £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
reimburse the cost of the private repair Mr L and Miss R paid for subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy;
remove the claim record from CUE and any other internal and external databases;
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.

My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
reimburse the cost of the private repair Mr L and Miss R paid for subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy;
remove the claim record from CUE and any other internal and external databases;
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman