DRN-3835469
The complaint
Miss V complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) have 
restricted her claim on her pet insurance policy to the old policy limit of £2,000 rather than 
the new policy limit of £4,000 per condition.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In November 2021, Miss V upgraded her policy from Superior cover to Superior plus cover. 
This meant that the annual condition limit upped from £2,000 to £4,000.
In December 2021, Miss Vs dog  C, suffered left hind lameness. Miss V submitted a claim 
for around £600 which was covered under the policy. Pre-authorisation was submitted to 
Red Sands for surgery to repair left hind cruciate and pre-authorisation was also submitted 
for right hind Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy (TPLO) costing in total around £8,500.
Red Sands said that C first started to show signs of lameness/cruciate issues prior to Miss V 
upgrading her policy in November 2021. It therefore applied the old policy limit of £2,000 per 
condition limit rather than the new policy limit. It also said it considered both legs to be a 
bilateral condition so it would consider this as one condition and apply the benefit limit.
Miss V says C had no problems with her left hind until December 2021 and the problems in 
October 2021 were for her right leg. And this is supported by the statement from Miss Vs 
vet. The vet has also confirmed that the issue with the left hind limb in December 2021 was 
a sudden onset.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, she said there was no evidence of any problems with 
the left leg in October 2021 and no evidence that the cause of the problems with the left leg 
in December 2021 were due to the problems noted with the right leg in October 2021. And 
just because the symptoms/clinical signs are named the same it doesnt mean it is a related 
bilateral condition. She directed Red Sands to pay the claims up to the new policy limit of 
£4,000.
Red Sands disagree. It says this is a bilateral condition and the policy clearly stipulates that 
this will be considered as one condition when applying the benefit limit or an exclusion. It 
says it has therefore correctly applied the onset date as 6 October 2021 and it therefore says 
the £2,000 limit applies as this was the limit on the policy that was in place at the time. 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 14 November 2022. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand things have moved on since Miss V brought this complaint to our service. The 
surgery didnt go ahead. Miss V has had a second opinion from another vet who thinks that 
C was misdiagnosed, and the issue is arthritis. C is having treatment by way of monthly 
injections and these appear to be working for C and she doesnt currently need any surgery 
on her limbs.
However, Miss V still wants this complaint considered because if C does ever need cruciate 
surgery, she wants to know if a claim will be considered under the new policy limit rather 
than the old policy limit.
I can appreciate her wanting clarification but as things have moved on this isnt something I 
can consider, as a claim hasnt been made and there will now be new clinical information for 
Red Sands to consider.
Im pleased to hear C is responding well to treatment and I hope Miss V doesnt have to 
submit a claim for cruciate issues in the future but if that does happen, Id expect Red Sands 
to reconsider its position and consider any future claim afresh as Miss Vs present treating 
vet doesnt believe that C has suffered from a cruciate injury.
Both parties have now responded to this decision.
 
In summary Miss V has reiterated that she wants C to be covered at the higher level of cover 
if she ever needs cruciate treatment. She also reiterated that the vet found nothing wrong 
with C on 6 October 2021 and she feels I have not taken this into account. Miss V also 
reiterated that she increased her cover in the first place because she queried the co-
payment deduction and once she understood what this meant she felt the need to increase 
her cover.
Red Sands agreed with the provisional decision. It also said Miss V has been in contact to 
request confirmation that Red Sands accept C was misdiagnosed in December 2021 and 
asking it to agree should C ever require TPLO/cruciate treatment, these conditions would be 
covered under the superior plus cover up to the limit of £4,000. Red Sands has said its 
unable to provide a definitive guarantee of cover for any claim prior to submission or review 
of the supporting documentation and clinical history recorded at the time of claiming.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regards to Miss Vs comments. I dont dispute the reasoning for Miss V to upgrade her 
policy, but this isnt relevant to the crux of this complaint. Miss V wants guarantees that 
TPLO/cruciate treatment will be covered at the higher level of cover if required in the future. I 
also didnt go into detail about the clinical history as things had moved on in that C no longer 
required surgery as Miss V had sought a second opinion and TPLO/cruciate surgery wasnt 
required at this time.
But its important to note it would be unfair for me to hold Red Sands to a guarantee that 
TPLO/cruciate treatment will be covered at the higher level of cover prior to any claim being 
made as future clinical entries may differ to those available at present. I have also not 
considered under this complaint any current treatment for the condition that C has been 
diagnosed with now and what policy limits have been applied this would be a separate 
complaint if Miss V is unhappy. As explained in my provisional decision, I will expect Red Sands to review any claim afresh 
using the supporting documentation and clinical history recorded at the time of claiming. I 
expect any future claim to be reviewed in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. If 
Miss V is unhappy with its claim decision at that time, then shed be able to make a new 
complaint.
Having carefully considered both parties comments to my provisional decision these havent 
changed my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman