DRN-3523341
The complaint
Mr T complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix Life) paid out a lower 
retirement value than the transfer value it had advised when he took benefits from his 
pension plan. He wants the difference paid to him. 
What happened
Mr T had a with profits pension plan administered by Phoenix Life. The retirement date of the 
plan was his 70th birthday on 5 February 2021. In the months before this Phoenix Life sent 
various information packs and illustrations about his available options. Mr T wrote to Phoenix 
Life on 5 February 2021 requesting that his benefits be paid as a one-off lump sum (UFLPS). 
He says he then called Phoenix Life and told the value of his plan was around £51,276.
Phoenix Life sent him some documents asking him to get in touch. These had a lower figure 
for his fund of around £47,525. Mr T says he called again to query this and was again told 
that the transfer value was around £51,276. Hed also received an annual statement dated 5 
February 2021 by post which confirmed the transfer value was £51,276. Mr T called Phoenix 
Life about this, and a complaint was logged. Mr T completed the documents Phoenix had 
sent him and returned them. 
Phoenix Life processed the withdrawal based on the £47,525 figure. Mr T queried this again, 
along with the net of tax figure paid into his bank account. He asked what level of final bonus 
had been paid given the policy was 36 years old. 
Phoenix Life said on reviewing the calls Mr T had been provided with incorrect information 
for which it apologised. It said the value hed been provided with of £51,276 was the transfer 
value not the basis value of the policy. It said the correct value was £47,525.09. It paid Mr 
T £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. Mr T wasnt satisfied by this 
explanation and raised further queries. He asked for an independent valuation of his policy 
on the date Phoenix Life received his instructions to make the withdrawal. 
Phoenix Life said that the value of £47,525.09 had been checked by the actuarial 
department and was correct. It said whilst the policy did provide for a final bonus this wasnt 
guaranteed and had been calculated at zero. Mr T complained further saying he wanted an 
independent actuary to review matters. Phoenix Life didnt change its decision and said it 
couldnt provide an independent actuary. However, it said Mr T had been caused further 
distress and inconvenience and paid him a further £100 in compensation. 
     
Mr T referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said he agreed Phoenix Life had made errors processing Mr Ts retirement 
claim but said the £350 paid in compensation was fair. He said the valuation of the policy 
was complex. But Phoenix Life had explained that the retirement and transfer values value 
was not the same as they were calculated differently. He said the retirement value was the 
amount payable had the date Mr T took benefits been the retirement date selected when the 
plan was taken out. 
He said the transfer value takes into account bonuses on the policy and the Final Asset 
Share of the with-profits fund based on the original retirement date selected (February 
2026). This gave the policy a right to an increased Final Asset Share, meaning the transfer 
value was higher than the retirement value.
Mr T disagreed. He made a number of points including:
1. He said Phoenix Life had changed the fund and there should be terminal bonus after 
36 years, he asked how much profit and fees it had made from this.
2. He said Phoenix Life agreed it had made mistakes which had cost him around 
£3,751 but the compensation offered was less than 10% of this.
3. He said a retirement date in 2026 was news to him and asked if Phoenix Life had 
made another mistake.  
4. He said a value was a value, and the transfer value quoted was £51,276 not £47,525 
paid out.
5. He agreed the plan was complicated so much so that Phoenix Lifes own staff didnt 
understand it and hed been given the run around for 14 months.    
Our investigator said Phoenix Life hadnt said it changed Mr Ts fund only that retirement and 
transfer values were calculated differently. He said reference to 2026 was relevant as this 
would be Mr Ts 75th birthday and it didnt impact on Phoenix Lifes explanation of how the 
values were calculated. He said he still felt it hadnt treated Mr T unfairly.
 
As Mr T doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. 
I understand Mr Ts frustration here. And when I looked at the explanations provided by 
Phoenix Life about how it had arrived at Mr Ts retirement value, I thought they were 
confusing. So, I asked for a further explanation so that he could better understand the 
figures. Despite several reminders, it hasnt responded, which is unhelpful. But I dont think 
that means Mr T has been treated fairly.
The pre-retirement documents sent to Mr T before he reached age 70 in February 2021 
quoted an estimated value of £47,525.09 at an intended retirement date of 5 February 
2021. Mr T wrote then wrote Phoenix Life on his 70th birthday to draw his benefits. 
Presumably because Mr T hadnt already confirmed he was taking benefits at this point, it 
seems Phoenix Life automatically reset the retirement age of his policy to 75 (February 
2026). As reflected on the annual statement dated 5 February 2021 it sent to him. This 
generated a higher guaranteed benefit value at 75 and showed a higher transfer value of 
£51,276. The same figure Phoenix Life quoted when Mr T called it. But as Mr T was taking 
his benefits at age 70, in line with the plans selected retirement age, where the guarantees it 
offered became available, these new figures werent relevant.  
Having looked at the information provided by Phoenix Life to explain how the respective 
retirement and transfer values were calculated, I thought it could be clearer. But the 
valuation of this type of pension plan is quite complex as it provides certain guarantees, the 
capital value of which is likely to be influenced by variable factors like prevailing Gilt yields. Phoenix Lifes actuarial department states:
that the transfer value is not comparable with the retirement value which has 
guaranteed annuity rates. Both are calculated differently.
It continued:
The retirement value is the reapply value which is a value approximately equal to the 
value that would have been payable had the retirement date been chosen as the 
retirement date from the outset. The transfer value is the greater of the reapply value 
and the Buyback value after a Final Asset Share (FAS) factor has been applied. The 
buyback value is the single premium required to purchase the Basic Cash Option and 
attaching bonuses (excluding terminal bonus) at the transfer date using the premium 
rates in force at that time.
For this policy the regular premium element of the policy had a higher buyback with 
FAS value and so made the transfer value higher than the retirement value. It is 
worth noting that taking the retirement
value has valuable guaranteed annuity rates. 
This is a complicated explanation. But as Phoenix Life has also said it is required to operate 
its with profits fund according to its Principles and Practices of Financial Management 
(PPFM) procedures. 
This is subject to quite detailed rules and oversight from the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and it includes the calculation of policy values. And each year an actuary is required 
to sign off a report confirming everything has been run in line with the PPFM. So, whilst its 
possible that Phoenix Life made an error this seems unlikely, particularly as it did agree to 
check the figures when Mr T challenged them.
And the annual statements provided to Mr T previously do show figures estimated valuations 
consistent with what it did pay under the plan. The statement dated 6 February 2020 quoted 
a transfer value of £45,913.85, which was lower than the guaranteed value at age 70 of 
£47,525.09. In 2019 the values quoted were £43,950.41 and £47,525.09 respectively. And 
considering the level of annual bonus rates being applied and that no final bonus was being 
added (see below). It does appear that the value used to pay Mr Ts benefits was fair and in 
keeping with the information it had previously provided. 
So, there isnt anything to suggest that Phoenix Life hasnt followed its normal business 
practices and the terms and conditions of the policy in calculating the values. So, whilst the 
transfer value advised was higher than the retirement value this doesnt mean that there has 
been an error or any sharp practice.
Final bonus
Mr T is aware these arent guaranteed but says the information sent to him stated a final 
bonus was applicable to his plan. He is correct about this, but unfortunately that doesnt 
mean that a final bonus will always be payable. As later on in the document dated 27 
November 2020, it says final bonus:
is not guaranteed and the actual amount of final bonus payable (if any) will only be 
known at the time you take your benefits and will reflect a fair share of the profits 
over the lifetime of the plan.And the annual statement dated 6 February 2020 explains that final bonus is reviewed twice 
a year, but none was currently payable as:
Many of the final bonus rates have already been set to zero because the value of 
the guaranteed benefits exceeds the fair value of the with-profits fund
 
Mr Ts policy did provide guaranteed benefits. And at maturity Phoenix compared the 
underlying policy value to the guaranteed benefits. It says the guaranteed benefits are the 
sum assured, a cash option or annuity and any annual bonuses added to date. But it hasnt 
updated the information about what these were from the annual statement of 2020. 
It says the underlying value reflects the premiums paid and the investment performance 
achieved by the with profits fund after expenses. And if the underlying value is higher than 
the value of the guaranteed benefits a final bonus will be added (to bring the guaranteed 
value up to the underlying value). But if the underlying value is lower than the guaranteed 
benefit then no final bonus will be added.
This is typical of how this type of plan works and isnt unreasonable in itself. Many with profit 
funds have been conservatively invested for many years. Because the underlying 
guarantees offered by individual policies are a liability for the insurance company. 
Challenging investment markets due to factors like the corona virus pandemic also led many 
with profit funds to not pay terminal bonuses in the recent past. 
Phoenix accepts it made an error in providing incorrect values to Mr T. But it did pay the 
value it had estimated in the pre-retirement documents issued in November 2020 and one 
consistent with the previous valuations and forecasts provided. 
So, I dont think it has treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably, although he was 
inconvenienced by the error. However, I think the total of £350 already paid to him by 
Phoenix is fair compensation for this in the circumstances and it neednt do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman