DRN-3223723
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In November 2018 Loans 2 Go provided Mr C with a loan of £300. The loan was repayable 
over 18 months with monthly repayments of £67.97. 
Mr C complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to him.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought 
the loan was affordable. 
Mr C referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think Loans 2 Go was wrong to have offered the loan to Mr C. 
As Mr C didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr C would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
When he applied for the loan, Mr C told Loans 2 Go that his monthly income was £1,800 
and his expenses came to £1,035 (being £260 on credit commitments and the rest on other 
living expenses). 
Loans 2 Go validated his income and carried out a credit search. It thought he earned 
£1,527.10 and had expenses of £1,279.03. Loans 2 Go also added a buffer of 10% to his 
verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. 
This suggested that Mr C shouldve been able to afford to make the monthly repayments on 
the loan out of his disposable income.
There was nothing very concerning revealed by the credit search. The only negative 
information on the credit file was two outstanding defaults in the previous year on a current 
account (£577) and a mail order account (£94). Hed taken out a pay day loan of £300 the 
previous month. I think its fair to say that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have 
other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history. Loans 2 Go was in the 
business of providing loans to people who might otherwise have been considered a poor 
credit risk, so I think it was reasonable of it still to provide the loan.
Overall, I think Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loan 
and the value of the repayment in relation to Mr Cs monthly income. And these checks 
showed that the loan repayments were affordable. Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman