DRN-3200930
The complaint
Mr B complained about the work carried out by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) to settle 
his claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim following a water leak originating from a toilet. Ageas accepted the claim 
and as part of the settlement cleaned Mr Bs sofa as some of the water had leaked through 
the ceiling and on to it.
Mr B said Ageas offered him the choice of a £600 cash settlement or to refurbish / clean his 
sofa. He said he chose to have it refurbished / cleaned. As Mr B wasnt happy with Ageas 
cleaning his sofa in his house, Ageas took it off-site to clean.
Mr B said when the sofa was returned it wasnt clean, was dusty and still had stains on it. Mr 
B complained to Ageas. He said Ageas said it would refurbish his sofa not just clean it. So, 
Mr B said he wanted to take the cash settlement as Ageas hadnt refurbished / cleaned his 
sofa properly and he refused to pay the £300 excess on the policy.
Ageas said the sofa had been professionally cleaned and had been returned it in its pre-loss 
condition, so wouldnt do anymore.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Ageas had acted in line 
with its policy terms by cleaning the sofa and she didnt see any evidence to suggest this 
hadnt been done effectively. Mr B disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was unhappy with the condition the sofa was in when it was returned to him. Mr B has 
expressed that Ageas had told him that his sofa would be refurbished or repaired rather than 
cleaned. I have listened to the calls available to me and I havent heard anything to suggest 
Ageas said it would be refurbishing the sofa. I think it was clear that Ageas were going to 
clean the sofa. So, I dont think Ageas has set any false expectation here. I needed to see 
evidence to show Ageas had promised to do something else than it did. As I havent Im not 
able to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
I have considered what Ageas were obligated to do under the policy. I see the policy said 
Ageas had to replace or repair the sofa or alternatively offer a cash equivalent. So, I have 
looked to see whether Ageas has done this fairly.
Mr B didnt think cleaning the sofa was sufficient. I consider cleaning to be a repair as it is 
restoring the condition of the sofa to a healthy state. However, the test for me would be 
whether the sofa was returned to Mr B in a condition consistent with how the sofa looked 
before the incident.
Mr B said the sofa had been stained by water damage so a clean wasnt sufficient. However, 
for me to agree with this statement, I would need to see evidence of staining. From the 
pictures I have been provided, its not obvious there is any marking on the sofa. Ageas have 
kept detailed notes throughout the claim. I have read these, and they are consistent 
throughout the timeline of the complaint and between Ageas and what its contractor said 
who carried out the clean. Ageas said: offered to carry out cleaning, sanitising, and 
conditioning of the sofa as we were unable to see any damage from the water but accept [Mr 
B] would want it cleaned. Ageas contractor said: there is no water damage present but due 
to the incident we would clean, sanitise and condition. Based on the evidence I have, Im 
not persuaded the sofa was stained / water damaged, so I think Ageas were reasonable to 
carry out the clean of the sofa as they have.
Mr B said he wasnt happy with the condition of the sofa when it was returned to him. I 
havent seen anything in the pictures to suggest the sofa wasnt returned to Mr B in a pre-
loss condition. It seems clear to me the sofa wasnt new and was showing signs of wear 
and tear. The leather on the sofa is faded. The fading isnt in one place to suggest it was 
caused by the incident, it is across the sofa suggesting general wear and tear and ageing. 
The evidence suggests the clean was carried out reasonably and the sofa was returned in 
reasonable condition. I havent seen any evidence to suggest the condition of the sofa after 
the clean was worse than the condition of the sofa before the incident. So, I havent seen 
anything to make me think Ageas has acted unreasonably here.
The cleaning of the sofa was expensive as Mr B wanted it done away from his house. 
However, I can see the cost of replacing the sofa wouldve been more, so I think Ageas has 
been fair as it took the most cost-effective option in cleaning the sofa which was its 
obligation under the policy. It also offered Mr B a cash equivalent. So, as I think Ageas met 
the terms of its policy, I think it has been fair in its settlement of the claim. It has also been 
fair to ask for the excess on the policy to be paid. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ageas Insurance Limited 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman