DRN-3911051
The complaint
Mr A complains about the standard of repairs arranged by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)
Limited (Admiral) following an accident, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr A was involved in a car accident. He contacted Admiral and it arranged
for his car to be repaired. The car was returned to Mr A at the end of September. He says he
spoke to Admirals repairer the following day because of warning lights that were flashing on
his dashboard. He was told the car was driveable, but he should return the car to have it
checked out.
Mr A says he arranged to return the car at the end of October 2021, but the repairer didnt
have authority from Admiral to look at the issue. He says he received a complaint response
from Admiral in November. He understood from this that the issue related to a calibration
problem with his stereo. Mr A says he was happy to pay for this to be resolved with the main
dealer.
Mr A says the main dealer removed the front bumper and found broken parts. He
complained to Admiral as he felt this related to the repairs it had carried out.
In its complaint response from January 2022 Admiral says the parts in question were
replaced during its repairs. All fixings and connections were secured, and the system was
calibrated. It says its confident all components were undamaged at the time the car was
returned to Mr A.
Mr A didnt think this could be correct and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint. She says there was no evidence of another impact to have
caused the damage. Because of the short time period between Mr A receiving his car and
reporting the fault, our investigator thought it likely that the issue occurred during the repairs.
She says Admiral should pay for the repairs, pay £100 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused and pay for the cost of the diagnostic report Mr A obtained.
Admiral disagreed with this outcome. It says it responded to two complaints from Mr H. The
first related to the warning lights he reported. It says it investigated and found the cause to
be, non-genuine audio/radio equipment that was fitted to Mr Hs vehicle. It says this
equipment needed to be removed, or the issue would continue. It paid Mr A £50
compensation for a poor standard of service in relation to this complaint.
Admiral says the second complaint is about the damaged radar system. This damage wasnt
identified until Mr A had driven a further 2,000 miles. It says the parts that are now damaged
were all replaced in the repairs it undertook. It says the positioning of the radar system is
directly behind the front bumper and is susceptible to damage from light impacts. Admiral
says the damage has been caused by another impact after its repairs were completed.
Because Admiral didnt agree with our investigators findings the complaint has been passed
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to not uphold Mr As complaint. Let me explain.
Mr A says he received his car back from Admirals appointed repairers on 30 September
2021. He contacted it the next day to highlight issues with the warning lights showing on his
dashboard.
From the records provided by Admiral an engineer spoke to Mr A before his vehicle left site.
This was regarding the radar in the vehicles windscreen. The notes say there is an issue
because of the non-genuine audio/radio device Mr A had fitted. This effects the windscreen
radar and the parking sensors.
Admirals note dated 8 October 2022 says:
The vehicle went to [repairer] and had all the ADAS/radar system calibrated which was
replaced behind the front bumper. He has now called reporting there are warning lights on
the vehicle which werent there before. There was loose wiring above the interior of the
windscreen when the vehicle was onsite due to the non genuine audio unit fitted, this could
be causing the problem I would advise the AR have done everything they can to ensure
the ADAS system is functioning correctly on this vehicle but due to the aftermarket parts
fitted they are having issues. This would be down to the PH to pursue as we can not be
responsible for the issues caused by the aftermarket parts.
Ive read the report Mr A obtained from the main dealer dated 27 November 2021. This says:
removed front bumper found front radar insecure and holder damaged also bolts missing
from radar module to front emblem wiring harness plus damaged insecure to radar unit.
Requires radar unit to progress with fault finding and calibrate system.
This indicates there was significant damage to the parts mentioned. But in its response to
our investigators findings, Admirals engineer says the radar unit, wiring loom and fixings
were all replaced and the Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) had been reset.
Ive read the repair report that details the parts that were included in the repair work. This
supports Admirals stance that the components, subsequently reported as damaged by the
main dealer, had been replaced during the initial repairs.
Admirals engineer also says that the ADAS was reset after the components were replaced.
He explains this isnt possible if these components were in the condition described by the
main dealer in November 2021.
Admirals engineer says the location of the components couldve been damaged by a
relatively light impact such as incidents that occur in car parks. He says damage may not
have been visible externally due to the design of the components used in the bumper. But
this could still have resulted in damage to the components behind.
Ive thought about Admirals comments that the main dealer didnt identify the damaged
radar unit until the end of November 2021 at which point, Mr A had driven another 2,000
miles. In addition to its engineers view that the damage reported had to have been causedby another impact.
I acknowledge Mr A believes the damage is the result of the repairs Admiral arranged. But I
find its argument persuasive that a relatively light impact couldve caused this damage after
its repairs were completed. Having considered the evidence I dont think its been shown that
Admirals repairer used damaged parts when carrying out the repairs to Mr As car.
In summary, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I think its been shown that all damaged
components were replaced during Admirals repair. The damage found by the main dealer
has most likely resulted from a later impact. Because of this I cant fairly ask Admiral to pay
for the repairs Mr A has claimed.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mr A nor Admiral responded with any further comments or information for me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman