DRN-1554232
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr V says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The PPI was added to Mr Vs credit card and was designed to help protect his monthly 
repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold but Mr V disagreed. The complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Vs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Tesco made it clear that Mr V didnt have to take out the PPI. And I can see from a 
copy of his signed credit card application form that he signed separately for PPI. So, I think 
he chose to take it.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mr V, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr V got the information he needed to decide for 
himself if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And 
it provided protection in addition to the (unspecified) savings he says he held. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V. But Tesco 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr V because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr V about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr V, 
that was unfair. To put that right, Tescos basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Tesco should also pay back to Mr V 
any extra interest he paid because of that. 
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr V the difference between 
what he owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mr V 8%* simple interest if 
Mr V paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr V can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V. 
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman