DRN-2231416
The complaint
Miss W complains about the settlement that Fairmead Insurance Limited has paid her for a
claim she made on her landlords home insurance policy.
What happened
n September 2018, Miss W discovered damage had been caused to her rental property by
water leaking in from a neighbours gutter. She made a claim on her landlords home
insurance policy.
Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to handle it. Fairmead initially
made an offer of settlement which was around half the amount of a quote Miss W had
obtained. Miss W was unhappy with the original settlement offered by Fairmead and with its
handling of the claim, so she brought a complaint to us about that issue. Our investigator
recommended Fairmead should pay £300 compensation for its handling of that claim at that
point, which it agreed to. That complaint was settled and closed.
Ultimately, once the neighbours gutter had been repaired in June 2019, Fairmead offered a
revised settlement of around £7900, based on quotes from Miss Ws contractors and its loss
adjusters opinion. Shortly afterwards, Miss W sent in a further quote for around £16,000.
This included the cost of replacing the damp proof course (DPC) at the property, which Miss
W said had also been damaged by water ingress and additional property damage. Miss W
said the DPC had only been installed around five years before the claim. The installer of it,
which Ill call J, had put the damage down to the water ingress and J said the DPCs
guarantee was now void.
Fairmead didnt agree to cover the costs of replacing the DPC or any property damage
associated with rising damp. Itd appointed a surveyor to inspect Miss Ws rental property,
which had found the DPC injections looked old and dilapidated; were inconsistently spaced
and the paint in the basement was an unsuitable tanking system. It found evidence of rising
damp in the hallway and lounge floors and lounge walls. So Fairmead concluded the
damage to the DPC and some of the property damage was down to rising damp, rather than
the ingress of water from Miss Ws neighbours property.
Miss W disagreed and asked us to look into her complaint, although she accepted its offer of
settlement for the other re-decorating costs. This amount was settled by Fairmead.
Our investigator thought Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. He noted that initially, thered
been no mention of rising damp in the loss adjusters reports. He put weight on the report
from J which said the damage was partly caused by water ingress; build-up of condensation
and lack of air-flow. The investigator felt the fact that water had been getting in for nine
months was the most likely reason for the failure of the DPC. He recommended Fairmead
should pay the full claim, together with compensation of £250.
Fairmead disagreed. It initially disputed that a DPC had been installed at Miss Ws property.
But the investigator sent it a copy of Js DPC guarantee which was dated October 2013.
Fairmead said Js original report suggested that water had been leaking into the property
continuously, which wasnt the case. In July 2019, Miss W had provided an estimate from
another contractor, P, which was a damp-proof specialist, which didnt mention the DPC. It
explained that its surveyor had attributed some damage to the leaking gutter. But the
remaining damage was down to rising damp following the DPC breaking down and
deteriorating over time.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought the settlement Fairmead had already paid Miss W was 
fair and reasonable. I said:
Im grateful for Miss W for providing me with a copy of Js guarantee from October 2013.
This clearly shows that a DPC was installed at the property at that point. It seems Fairmead
now also accepts this was the case.
Damage caused by damp; wear and tear; or gradual deterioration is specifically excluded by
the terms of Miss Ws policy. So what I now need to decide is whether the DPC was most
likely to have failed due to the leaking gutter, causing further water damage, or whether its
deteriorated over time.
As Im not a damp-proof or construction expert, Ive carefully considered all of the expert
evidence available to me in reaching my provisional view. On the one hand, I have a report
from J and on the other, Ive a survey provided by Fairmeads surveyor. Ive first considered
Js findings set out in its report of 26 July 2019.
J said: On further inspection internally on the property it was evident that there were
damp/ condensation issues all caused by water ingress due to in our opinion by the
poor maintenance of the property and above property water- disposal systems. J also
added that its guarantee was now void as a result.
It seems J attributed the internal damage to the leaking gutter, although I note it didnt
specifically mention the DPC or how the leaking gutter had caused it to become damaged.
Its report was brief. Ive also looked carefully at the guarantee. The section J referred to
was a responsibility for Js client (in this case, Miss W) to fully and properly maintain the
water-disposal services and all other services in the property. As J voided the guarantee, it
appears it considered this responsibility may not have been met, although I accept this
couldve been because of the claim.
Ive then considered Fairmeads surveyors report. This acknowledged that there had been
DPC injections. But it said these looked to be old and dilapidated. It said the DP injections
to the left elevation were inconsistently spaced. The report stated: the tanking paint to the
basement seems too thin to be a suitable tanking system; it resembles slurry-based cement
paint and it noted the paint on the basement walls had deteriorated over time and broken
down.
The report also said:
The current damp proofing to the property looks old and dilapidated with some maintenance
needed to the paintwork in the basement and damp-proof injections. The damp is
encroaching on the property from every possible direction. The basement has a thin coat of
paint applied to the walls, which is not considered to be a comprehensive damp proof
membrane. The paintover time will deteriorate and crack.
Fairmeads surveyor concluded: The remaining issues with damp present to the walls
throughout the property are considered to be attributable to rising damp, due to the damp
proof protection breaking down and deteriorating over time. Therefore, the damage to thebasement, the wall dividing the lounge, utility, stairwell and also the floor in the lounge and
hallway are considered to be attributable to the issues associated with the rising damp.
The report was very detailed and broke-down room by room what damage was likely
attributed to each cause. It seems the surveyor undertook a full inspection, undertook testing
and provided several photos to support the findings.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im currently more persuaded by the findings of Fairmeads
surveyor. Thats because the report was considerably more detailed than Js and explained
how it felt the damage in each area had happened. It also seems persuasive, given that the
gutter wasnt continuously leaking and that the damage it caused was more likely to affect
the ceilings and walls than the flooring. So Ive placed significant weight on the report. It isnt
clear from Js report how a leaking gutter above Miss Ws property, which leaked during
heavy rains, but not continuously, wouldve been able to penetrate the basement and
damage the DPC.
Ive also borne in mind that when carrying out its own estimate a few weeks beforehand on
Miss Ws behalf, P didnt mention any issues with the basement or with the DPC. Id have
reasonably expected a damp-proof expert to notice and include the costs of replacing a
damaged DPC in its quote if itd felt the water leak had caused this damage. I appreciate the
loss adjuster didnt notice this damage during their visit. But Im satisfied that by appointing
the surveyor to look into what was causing the damp once it became aware of the additional
possible damage, Fairmead took reasonable steps to check whether it was covered.
Overall, based on all Ive seen, I currently think its more likely than not that the damage to
the basement and other associated areas was caused by the DPC breaking down and
deteriorating. While I appreciate it wasnt particularly old, it appears the surveyor considered
the paint mayve been too thin and the DPC injections were inconsistently spaced, which
mayve contributed to it breaking down. So it seems that this damage wasnt down to the
leaking gutter and is specifically excluded by the damp and gradual deterioration clauses of
the policy.
This means I currently think it was fair for Fairmead not to pay for any costs related to the
breakdown of the rising damp or basement damage. Its open to Miss W to provide me with
any further expert evidence in support of her claim in response to my provisional decision
should she wish to do so.
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Fairmead didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Miss W didnt accept my provisional decision. She sent in a detailed response and Ive 
summarised her main points below:
She felt that if the gutter hadnt leaked and caused damage to the DPC, the 
guarantee wouldnt have been voided;
She queried whether Id intended to say that she was responsible for maintaining her 
neighbours gutter  J had clearly put the damage down to the gutter, not her failure 
to maintain her property;
The DPC had been properly installed by an expert and its lifespan was for around the 
30 years itd been guaranteed for and the policy exclusion Id referred to didnt 
include water ingress due to faulty or improperly installed damp mitigation;On balance, given that damp issues didnt arise until after the issues with the leaking 
gutter, its highly likely the two are linked. There may also have been some delay in 
the damp appearing, which was why both Fairmeads first assessors and P had 
missed it. Its unlikely that damp caused by gradual deterioration couldve appeared 
in such a short time period and been missed by multiple parties;
The surveyors report referred to the DPC looking old and dilapidated, but this is at 
odds with its age. The basement paint wasnt being used for damp purposes, it was 
there for aesthetic reasons;
Rising damp takes years to manifest  so it seems that the DPC wouldve failed 
within a quarter of its expected lifespan and that the tenants hadnt noticed it. This 
isnt plausible;
Js report wasnt a report, it was a voidance of the guarantee  J wasnt being paid to 
conduct a full survey;
The surveyor was appointed and paid for by Fairmead, so it had a financial incentive 
to reject the claim;
The damp was not rising damp, but was penetrative damp, which had caused 
damage.
Fairmead should also pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her by its handling of the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think Fairmeads offer of settlement was fair. Ill explain why.
Miss W has responded to my provisional findings in some detail. While Ive only summarised 
her points, Id like to reassure her that Ive carefully considered all shes said and provided. 
In explaining my decision though, Ive focused on the issues and evidence I think are key 
rather than addressing each of Miss Ws points in turn. I would say at the outset that my 
decision wasnt intended to suggest that Miss W was responsible for the maintenance of her 
neighbours property.
I appreciate how strongly Miss W feels that the damp issues are down to penetrative damp, 
not rising damp. As Im not a damp-proof specialist, I must accordingly place significant 
weight on the expert evidence thats provided to me as part of a complaint. While Miss W 
has provided detailed reasons why she considers my provisional decision was wrong, she 
hasnt provided me with any additional expert evidence in support of her claim - whether 
from J or another party - which counters Fairmeads surveyors findings.
Its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim on their policy. Because Miss W feels 
all of the identified damp issues are down to her neighbours gutter, its for her to 
demonstrate, on balance, that penetrative damp was the most likely cause of all the 
damage. In this case, P, a damp specialist, didnt mention the DPC and didnt include it 
within its repair quote. It isnt clear whether this is because the damp damage wasnt present 
or if it simply didnt think it formed part of the penetrative damp claim.
So Miss W has relied on the voidance of her guarantee by J as evidence that the damage 
was down to penetrative damp caused by her neighbours gutter. As I explained, I appreciate 
that the DPC was only installed a few years before the claim. And theres no dispute that J 
voided the guarantee. I appreciate that the letter J provided voiding the guarantee didnt 
constitute a full report. But this is the only expert evidence I have which attributes the 
voidance to the leaking gutter in some way. So Ive reconsidered what J said.As Ive explained, this letter doesnt explain how the leaking gutters caused all of the damp 
issues. And indeed it also doesnt solely put the internal damage down to the gutters. It says:
On further inspection internally on the property it was evident that there were damp/ 
condensation issues all caused by water ingress due to in our opinion by the poor 
maintenance of the property and (my emphasis) above property water- disposal systems.
So this letter would suggest that the internal damage was due to poor maintenance of the 
property itself, as well as the failed guttering. In my view, this simply isnt strong enough 
expert evidence for me to fairly conclude that all of the damp damage was down to 
penetrative damp caused by the leaking gutters.
Ive reconsidered Fairmeads surveyors findings too. When Miss W first let it know about 
further damage, I think it was reasonable for it to appoint surveyors to investigate whether 
the damage was down to something covered by the policy. In this case, whether all of the 
damp was down to penetrative damp caused by the leaking guttering. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the surveyors didnt carry out an independent inspection and if its findings had 
supported Miss Ws position, that the claim wouldnt have been accepted.
The surveyor seems to have done a thorough visual inspection of the property. The report 
indicates that damp readings were taken, although I appreciate Miss W doesnt think they 
were.  As Ive explained, the report mentions that:
The current damp proofing to the property appears old and dilapidated, with some 
maintenance needed to the paintwork in the basement and damp proof injections. The damp 
is encroaching on the property from every possible direction.
And it refers to mould spores and damp building up on floorboards, which was most likely 
due to the lack of air flow and rising damp. The report clearly separates areas of damage 
into damage which was down to the penetrative damp which was linked to the leaking 
gutters and damage which was because of rising damp. So I think it seems it undertook a 
fair assessment of the damage and how itd happened. It seems most likely to me, based on 
the expert evidence, that the new damp damage Miss W claimed for simply wasnt caused 
by penetrative damp and so simply wasnt covered by the policy.
Overall, based on the available expert evidence, the damage Miss W has now claimed for 
seems to be caused by rising damp and the breakdown of the DPC. The surveyors report 
points to a DPC which is inconsistently spaced and looks old and dilapidated. The policy 
clearly excludes claims caused by damp, by wear and tear and gradual deterioration. So Im 
still persuaded Fairmeads settlement was fair and reasonable and Im not telling it to pay 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman