DRN-3064327
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to update his address and send him 
his January 2021 statement for his current account.
What happened
On 5 January 2021 Mr A visited his local HSBC branch to update his address.
Mr A has explained he did not receive his January 2021 statement, and was concerned his 
address hadnt been updated. He made calls to clarify the matter and visited his local branch 
again.
Mr A complained to HSBC in February 2021, HSBC did not agree that it had acted 
incorrectly as its systems showed his address had been updated and his statement had 
been sent. But it did pay Mr A £25 for the cost of calls and taxi fare to visit the branch.
Mr A didnt accept this, he felt that not receiving his January statement had made him lose 
out by £120 on an investment hed delayed. He also wanted HSBC to apologise for the 
errors he felt it had made. He referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our Investigator found that HSBC had updated Mr As address on 5 January and had 
provided system screen shots to show it had also dispatched his January statement to the 
correct address. Our Investigator didnt think they could conclude HSBC had acted 
incorrectly, and so felt HSBCs offer of £25 was fair.
Mr A disagreed. He felt that after his discussion with HSBC on 19 February 2021 HSBC had 
delayed sending the copy statements which had further delayed his investment decision.
He suggested that as the £25 offer had only been added to his account on 21 February 
2021, this was the likely date the copy statements had been sent. Mr A highlighted that this 
was poor service as he had a deadline of 28 February 2021 to make his investment choice. 
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key consideration is whether there is enough evidence to show HSBC updated Mr As 
address on 5 January 2021, and correctly sent out his account statements after this.
HSBC have provided internal system screen shots to show the address held for Mr A from   
5 January onwards was the correct one. So, Im satisfied that if it can show his statements 
were sent, they wouldve been sent to the correct place.
HSBC have been able to demonstrate through system screen shots that Mr As statements 
were dispatched in January and February. So, Im satisfied Mr As statements were sent at 
the correct time, and to the correct address. The vast majority of correctly addressed mail is 
correctly delivered. Whilst Mr A has complained that he did not receive his statements, I 
cant say that this was due to any error caused by HSBC.
Mr A has described how he feels HSBC later delayed in sending statement copies which 
prevented him from making any investment decision before the deadline of                          
28 February 2021. Ive considered this carefully, but again, I dont think HSBC can be held 
responsible for any delay in investing. This is because HSBC arent at fault for Mr As first 
statement going missing. And as the conversation with HSBC about the issue was held on 
19 February 2021, Im satisfied Mr A had the option to enquire at this time about his account 
balance, as well as any other details of the account, which wouldve given him enough time 
to make his investment choice before 28 February. 
Mr A would like the Financial Ombudsman to confirm when the statement copy was 
dispatched, hes also provided his own detailed speculation for how the copy statement 
could have arrived at his address at the same time as his February statement. Ive 
considered his submissions carefully, but for the reasons explained above I dont feel this 
information is necessary for my investigation. Im satisfied from the system screen shots 
provided by HSBC that the statements were requested the same day as the call on            
19 February 2021, which is reasonable, and that Mr A had the opportunity to enquire about 
his balance or other account details during this call.
HSBC has paid Mr A £25 for the inconvenience of calls to HSBC, and for the taxi fare he 
incurred visiting the branch. As I think HSBC has acted fairly, Im satisfied that this offer is a 
fair and reasonable one.
As I think HSBC has acted reasonably, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. HSBC Bank Plc do not need to do any more 
to resolve the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman