DRN-4454419
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV settled a 
claim he made on a group dental insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr H is insured under his employers group dental insurance policy. Mr H made a claim for 
dental treatment which took place across two appointments. One appointment was for a 
dental check-up and the other appointment was with a hygienist for a scale and polish. Mr H 
paid £150 in total for the treatment. So he made a claim on the policy.
CIGNA accepted Mr Hs claim. But it only paid him £50, which it said was the applicable  
annual policy limit for preventative dental treatment. 
Mr H was unhappy with CIGNAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He felt 
the policy terms and conditions were ambiguous and misleading and that the contract 
suggested thered be unlimited cover for dental examinations.
Our investigator didnt think CIGNA had treated Mr H unfairly. She felt the policy terms and 
conditions were clear and unambiguous. So she concluded that CIGNA had settled Mr Hs 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr H disagreed. In summary, he maintained that the policy terms werent clear and he felt 
they suggested that CIGNA provided unlimited cover. He thought the policy was 
contradictory and confusing.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think CIGNA has settled his claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the insurance contract and the circumstances of Mr Hs claim, to decide whether 
I think CIGNA treated him fairly.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the 
contract between CIGNA and Mr Hs employer. The front cover of the member guide says: 
Level of cover
It's important you know which level of cover you have and the benefit limits which apply to 
you.
Mr Hs policy certificate shows that his employer chose the DentaCare 1 level of cover 
when it took out the policy. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for CIGNA to 
consider any claims Mr H made in line with DentaCare 1 cover.  
Page four of the member guide includes a section called Understanding your level of cover. 
This says:
Your level of cover has been chosen by your employer and agreed with Cigna. Your 
membership certificate will tell you which level of cover you have. Cigna will only pay 
benefits for cover provided under the specific plan level which applies to you.
Immediately underneath, CIGNA has set out the main benefits of the policy. This includes 
the following:
Unlimited number of examinations, scale and polishes, and x-rays within treatment 
reimbursement limits
Your plan helps make a contribution towards private dental charges but please be 
aware that treatment limits apply and you may have to pay something towards the 
cost of treatment yourself. (My emphasis added).
Page six of the member guide sets out the List of Benefits. The guide states:
This shows the treatment types and benefit limits for each DentaCare level of cover. You 
can refer to your membership certificate to check the level of cover you have.
Cigna will only pay benefits provided under the specific level of cover which applies to you, 
as chosen by your employer. Here are all the items your plan covers and the maximum 
amounts we reimburse.
All benefit limits apply to each member and covered dependant for every year of 
insurance unless otherwise stated. (My emphasis added).
Immediately underneath, CIGNA has listed the benefits for DentaCare 1. These include:
Preventative treatment 
Examinations, scales and polishes and x-rays - £50.
In my view, CIGNAs terms and conditions make it sufficiently clear that under the 
DentaCare 1 level of cover, there is an annual limit of £50 for examinations, scale and 
polishes and x-rays. While the contract refers to an unlimited number of examinations or 
scale and polishes, I think the terms clearly refer to the fact that treatment limits apply to 
those particular treatments. I dont think the policy terms are ambiguous or misleading on 
that point or that they suggest a policyholder has an unlimited amount of dental cover. 
Instead, I find the terms make it clear that insured members can have an unlimited amount 
of preventative appointments, but that CIGNA will only pay for those appointments up to the 
cover limits. So I think its fair and reasonable for CIGNA to have relied upon its terms and 
conditions when assessing Mr Hs claim.
I understand that Mr Hs claim was for a check-up and a scale and polish with the hygienist. 
As such, I think it was fair for CIGNA to have considered the claim in line with the policy terms and apply the applicable annual limit of £50 per claim. This means that Im satisfied 
CIGNA has settled Mr Hs claim fairly and reasonably, in line with the contract terms.
It's clear Mr H feels strongly about his matter and I sympathise with his position, as I 
appreciate hes been left out of pocket. But as Ive explained, I dont think CIGNAs policy 
wording is unclear or that its handled his claim in an unfair way. So Im not directing CIGNA 
to pay Mr H anything more.
Mr H has referred to being unhappy with the way the policy was sold to him. However, as 
Ive set out above, Mr Hs employer took out the group scheme with CIGNA. It doesnt 
appear that CIGNA sold the policy directly to Mr H. So I havent considered how the policy 
was sold within this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman