DRN-2924361
The complaint
Mr S, trading as C, complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to correctly apply two 
business loan PPI refunds to reduce the debt outstanding to it.
What happened
Mr S, trading as C, had two business loans with Lloyds. In 2012, Mr S complained about the 
PPI on both loans and this was upheld.
In June 2012, Lloyds confirmed that a refund of £477.54 was due on the first loan account 
and a refund of £1,152.18 was due on the second loan account. Shortly after this, Mr S 
signed a form to confirm the refunds should be used to pay any arrears.
Mr S used the services of a debt management company (DMC) and, after some years, says 
hed cleared all outstanding debts.
In August 2019, Mr S contacted Lloyds as he wanted them to confirm, with evidence, that 
the refunds for both loan accounts had been used to reduce his outstanding debt on the 
loans at the time. Mr S says Lloyds hasnt been able to give this to him so he came to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into matters. She explained that unfortunately, due to the passage of 
time, Lloyds had only been able to send us limited information. She didnt find this unusual 
as businesses are only required to hold information for six years. Our investigators view on 
the complaint was that Lloyds had sent us sufficient evidence the refunds were allocated to 
reduce the outstanding debt on the loan accounts. So, she didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S disagreed. He says Lloyds havent provided any proof that the refunds were deducted 
from his outstanding balance. Whilst the evidence shows internal transfers were made, he 
doesnt feel this shows that his debt outstanding at the time was reduced by the agreed 
refund amounts. He says the DMCs records do not show a credit which matches the refund 
amounts. Further, Mr S says that even if Lloyds can show this, it didnt tell the DMC and so 
the debts were overpaid by him equal to the amount of the refund on each loan account. And 
hes sceptical about the evidence which has been retained for more than six years.
Our investigator and Mr S communicated about this matter but our investigator didnt change 
her view. While she acknowledged the evidence didnt show the account balance at the time, 
she felt it more likely the refunds were used to reduce the outstanding amount on the loan 
accounts based on what was available. In terms of the statement from the DMC, the 
investigator said it shows the payments Mr S was making to the DMC so she wouldnt 
expect a PPI refund to appear on that statement. This is because the PPI refund was an 
internal transfer done on Lloydss system whereas the statement from the DMC recorded the 
amounts Mr S had paid to the DMC and which it was passing on to Lloyds.
As Mr S and the investigator couldnt come to an agreement, this matter has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr S that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Given how long ago these refunds were agreed (2012) on a debt which was transferred to 
recoveries in 2008, there isnt much information available from the time. This isnt surprising 
or unusual. And I dont draw any negative conclusions from Lloyds not having all this 
information or from the information it does have available. I wouldnt have expected it to 
keep hold of it for all this time.
I appreciate the lack of available information makes it difficult to have an exact picture as to 
what happened, particularly one which is easily evidenced by documentation to satisfy Mr 
Ss concerns. However, where there is minimal or missing information, I must base my 
decision on what I think is more likely than not in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
The evidence Lloyds has been able to send to our service includes the following:
1. Screen shots showing the two loans accounts being transferred to its Wholesale 
Banking Recoveries (WBR) department on 24 June 2008. At this point, the amounts 
outstanding were £1,179.97 on loan ending 9724 and £3,564.32 on loan ending 
3242. The loans were transferred to WBR and their new reference number was 
1000065100. Lloyds has confirmed a current account was also transferred to WBR at 
the same time with an outstanding balance of £1,437.77. 
2. System note dated 29 August 2012 in which an email was sent to WBR asking for 
the attached funds to be paid to reference 1000065100.
3. Screen shot of a data entry under the WBR reference of 1000065100. This shows Mr 
S and Cs name. It details the two loan accounts ending 9724 and 3242 and shows 
that WBR received the two amounts of £477.54 and £1,152.18 on 6 September 
2012.
4. Transaction listing for reference 1000065100. This shows the two refunds of £477.54 
and £1,152.18 being applied and payments of £29.79 being made each month from 
Mr S to clear the debt for several months after this in 2012 and 2013.
On the other hand, Mr S has a copy of a statement from his DMC. I can understand why he 
points to this but its not a complete picture. This shows all payments made by Mr S to the 
DMC in relation to the debt owed to Lloyds and which the DMC passed on to Lloyds. In 
contrast, the evidence from Lloyds shows the credit of the PPI refunds to the loan account 
as well as the payments from Mr S through the DMC in 2012 and 2013. As Lloyds has 
provided a more complete picture, I find the evidence from it more persuasive. 
Further, Lloyds has no record of a credit in Mr S or Cs name nor anything to suggest the 
payment wasnt made by internal transfer and deducted from the debt owed to it. The DMC 
are expected to keep on top of payments and the amount of the debt outstanding and this is 
normally done through an annual request. If it continued to make payments unnecessary, 
they likely would have bounced back or been used to increase Mr Ss payments to his other 
creditors.With that in mind, and as I can see nothing to suggest Lloyds has kept Mr Ss PPI refunds, 
Im not persuaded I can fairly say Lloyds failed to correctly apply the two business loan PPI 
refunds to reduce the debt owed by Mr S to it. Nor do I reasonably consider I could ask it to 
pay Mr S any more money in relation to this. 
I note what Mr S has said about the evidence Lloyds has retained in this matter and whether 
this has been done with the aim of selecting only the evidence which supports its position. I 
havent found anything concerning in Lloyds actions. I also dont think it likely a large high 
street bank, such as Lloyds, would take a coordinated and sustained approach against Mr 
Ss PPI refund for this purpose. I say this particularly as the matter has involved many staff 
members across different areas of the business and various processes when seeking to 
gather evidence in this matter.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman