DRN-3021631
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold a hire purchase agreement with Advantage Finance 
Ltd.
His complaint was brought on his behalf by Miss M.
What happened
On 27 June 2020 Mr R took out a hire purchase agreement with Advantage to finance the 
purchase of a used car. The car was nearly five years old, with a mileage of just under 
80,000 miles, and had a cash price of £11,795. The agreement was for £18,263: this 
included an advance payment of £2,990, made up of a cash payment of £2,500 and £490 
from a part exchange, followed by 59 monthly repayments of £251, and a final payment of 
£451.
The agreement showed a rate of interest of 13.5% and an APR of 26.75%.
Mr R said the dealer told him the total amount payable would be around £11,000, including 
the deposit of £3,000.  He said he understood hed pay back the £8,000 over the next four or 
five years, including interest. He said he signed the agreement on the basis of what hed 
been told in the dealership.
It wasnt until 1 July 2020 when he received the agreement documentation from Advantage 
that he realised the total cost was £18,263. He said the dealer told him to contact Advantage 
and theyd be willing to unwind the agreement and accept the return of the car.
In January 2021 Miss M called our office to say that she was concerned that Advantage 
hadnt calculated Mr Rs income and expenditure, and questioned whether or not the 
agreement was affordable.
On 17 July 2020 Advantage sent their final response to Mr R. They said Mr R had signed an 
electronic form to confirm hed seen all of the relevant pre-contract information, including the 
Agreement, and its terms, including the costs. They said the agreement clearly set out the 
interest of £5,943.
They said Mr R was also given information about withdrawing from the agreement. They 
said this wasnt suitable for Mr R as he would have to return the full amount of the advance 
within 30 days.
Unhappy with their response, Miss M brought the complaint to this service on behalf of Mr R. 
She said she was representing him because English wasnt his first language. She said this 
was why he had relied on the information hed been told in the dealership.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She felt that the checks Advantage did to assess 
whether or not the agreement was affordable for Mr R were sufficient. She was also satisfied 
that they acted fairly when approving this credit agreement.
But she didnt think the information about the agreement, including the total cost of the 
agreement, was made clear to him, meaning he wasnt able to make an informed decision 
about the total amount payable under the agreement.
Advantage disagreed  they said they shouldnt be held responsible for any potential wrong 
doing by the dealer. They said they would be willing to resolve the matter by collecting the 
car, settling the agreement with nothing further to pay (subject to the condition of the car), 
and they would refund the deposit of £2,990 to Mr R.
Mr R declined the offer because hed lost faith in Advantage and the uncertainty about what 
he may be charged for damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Affordability
After making the initial complaint, Miss M complained to our investigator that Advantage 
hadnt properly considered whether or not Mr R could afford the agreement.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Advantage lent to Mr R. It 
required them to lend responsibly. Its rules and guidance are found in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), available online. The rules required Advantage to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
The relevant rules are set out in CONC 5.2A. They require Advantage to assess 
creditworthiness. The rules stated that Advantage needed to do consider Mr Rs ability to 
meet the repayments without him needing to borrow from elsewhere or rely on assets or 
savings, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation (CONC 5.2A.12). 
The rules dont set out what Advantage needed to do to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. Whats 
proportionate would depend on a number of factors including the type of product, the amount 
of credit being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the 
borrowers financial situation  amongst other factors.
When considering Mr Rs complaint, I have considered the following questions:
did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Rs application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the agreement in 
a sustainable way?if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I can see that Advantage carried out a credit reference agency check. The credit report 
theyve provided shows that Mr R had a number of accounts with banks, building societies 
and utility providers. The only adverse information was a default on a utility account from 
2018.
They also verified his income by way of a pay slip, and made what I consider to be a 
reasonable assessment of his expenditure using publicly available data, including 
information from the Office of National Statistics.
So Im satisfied that the checks they carried out were reasonable and proportionate.
Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for them to consider lending the amount in the 
agreement was affordable to Mr R. Using the information provided, it appears that Mr R was 
left with more than £450 each month for other household expenses after paying utility bills, 
and making the monthly payment of £251.
Mis-sale of the agreement
Mr Rs main complaint was that he was mis-sold the agreement. He said he was told the 
total cost of the agreement was around £11,000. So he was surprised to read in the 
documents sent to him by Advantage that the total amount payable was more than £18,000.
Advantage say they shouldnt be held responsible for any misleading information given by 
the dealer. I disagree  section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) explains that 
when a hire purchase agreement is entered into, the finance provider, like Advantage, are 
liable for what is said by a supplier before the credit agreement was entered into.
Im satisfied that Advantage fulfilled its obligations to provide Mr R with all the relevant 
information about the agreement. But Im persuaded by Mr Rs testimony that he believed 
the total price would be around £11,000. Ill explain why.
In the calls Ive listened to and in the testimony provided by Miss M, both have been 
consistent. The timing of the complaint is also relevant  coming so soon after they received 
notification from Advantage that the total cost was significantly more than they expected. 
They spoke to both the dealer and to Advantage and sought ways to reduce the interest  
including offering increased monthly payments.
Advantage told us that Mr R e-signed a link on an iPad on 27June 2020, cancelled at 
15:06, then signed again at 15:13. They said this demonstrated that Mr R had time to 
consider the information. I disagree: seven minutes isnt sufficient time to consider the 
relevant information. I think it shows some doubt in Mr Rs mind, doubt that it seems he 
wasnt able, or allowed to, express.
Mr R met with the dealer at the time to discuss the mis-sale of the agreement. But this 
wasnt productive, as the dealer referred them to Advantage. 
Im satisfied that Mr R wasnt told the full cost of the credit at the time he entered into the 
agreement. Im satisfied he was led to believe the total cost was around £11,000, and that 
he was provided with misleading or inaccurate information that induced him into entering into 
the agreement.
Right of WithdrawalWhen Mr R first complained to Advantage, they explained his right of withdrawal. Im 
satisfied they did this fairly and appropriately. They explained to him that he could withdraw 
from the agreement, but this would leave him liable for a lump sum payment. A payment that 
he couldnt afford to pay at that time.
The offer
Advantage offered to resolve the complaint, in line with the recommendation made by our 
investigator. But they also asked that they be able to charge Mr R for any excess damage 
should he not have taken reasonable care of the vehicle.
Mr R, having lost faith in Advantage during the complaint process, didnt want to take on this 
risk.
I think its reasonable for Advantage to ask for this, and I will be including this in my 
outcome. Mr R should be assured that any charges must be evidenced, explained, and be in 
line with the Industry Guidance set out by the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Putting things right
Ive explained above why Im satisfied that Mr R was provide with misleading information, 
and why it wasnt fair or reasonable for Advantage to approve the agreement. Ive also 
explained why section 56 of the CCA means that Advantage are liable here.
Im aware that Mr R has had use of the car that is the subject of the agreement and should 
pay for that usage. Hes been making the monthly payments on the agreement and I think 
that represents fair usage. So I wont be asking Advantage to refund any payments to Mr R.
As Im requiring Advantage to cancel the agreement, I require them to remove any adverse 
information that has been placed on Mr Rs credit file.
Advantage should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;
Collect the vehicle at no additional cost to Mr R, subject to any reasonable damages in 
line with BVRLA guidance on fair wear and tear;
Refund the deposit of £2,990, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Rs credit file
HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. They must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Advantage Finance Ltd, 
and put things right as Ive set out.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman