DRN-2070009
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax didnt complete the transfer of 
his Individual Savings Account (ISA) in the right way so this affected the amount he could 
pay in for that tax year. 
What happened
Mr J held a cash ISA with Bank of Scotland. In 2019, he received a letter to say that the 
interest rate was reducing. He saw that he could get a higher interest rate on an ISA with 
Halifax, so he opened this ISA and transferred the balance from his Bank of Scotland ISA to 
it online. But, when he went to add to his ISA in February 2020, he noticed that the amount 
he could add for that tax year was less than his ISA allowance of £20,000. He complained 
that a mistake had been made as he couldnt deposit his full allowance into the ISA and so 
was losing out on interest. 
Halifax said that Mr J had transferred the money from his previous ISA as a faster payment, 
rather than an ISA transfer. So his ISA allowance had been reduced by the amount he 
transferred. It said that Mr J had done this online and there would have been a pop-up 
message displayed on his computer screen which told him he was transferring money out of 
his ISA, and he needed to confirm that he still wanted to go ahead with this. It said that it 
couldnt amend Mr Js ISA subscription as it hadnt made an error with the transfer.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that, although Bank of Scotland and Halifax are part of the same group, an ISA transfer 
request would still need to be made to move money between accounts within the group. So 
he didnt think Halifax had made a mistake with the available ISA allowance for Mr J. The 
investigator said that a warning wouldve appeared when Mr J put in the details of the 
transfer from his ISA, and he wouldve needed to tick a box to confirm that he understood 
the transfer would count towards that years ISA allowance. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that hed used his Halifax log-in to 
make the transfer and provided information to show he last logged onto with his Bank of 
Scotland log-in in 2018. He said that hed completed a simple transfer from his Bank of 
Scotland ISA to his Halifax ISA and the loss of his ISA allowance could be attributed to badly 
designed or faulty software. He said he was able to give his Halifax account number for 
security details when contacting Bank of Scotland and the address for communications is the 
same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that the reasons why Mr J believed that he was moving his ISA investment 
within the same group, and so doesnt believe this should be classed as a contribution 
towards his ISA allowance, when this was an allowance from a previous tax year.
But rather than a specific ISA transfer which would keep that ISA status, the way that he 
moved his money meant that it was classed as a withdrawal and then a new investment, 
which is why it was included in his allowance for that tax year. 
An ISA transfer between two different providers is usually something that is requested by the 
customer, and then completed between the two providers. It is the new ISA provider that 
would need to request the transfer to it from the previous provider. And, as the investigator 
has said, while Halifax and Bank of Scotland are part of the same group, they are separate 
ISA providers, and different brands. This may explain why Mr J found that Halifax offered a 
different interest rate at the time.
 
But I can appreciate Mr Js point that, in having online banking with both Bank of Scotland 
and Halifax, these show on his dashboard together, rather than separately. Mr J has sent 
us a screen shot of his online banking through Bank of Scotland. I acknowledge that hes 
pointed out that the date of his last log-on would show that he used his Halifax log-on to 
make the transfer from his Bank of Scotland ISA. But I also note that the dashboard shows 
which brand the accounts are with, as his ISA account shows it is with Halifax. 
Even though he was able to complete a transfer between his accounts this way, I dont think 
this means that he didnt need to go through the process of telling Halifax that he wished to 
transfer across his existing ISA balance so that it would keep the ISA status and not be 
classed as a withdrawal. 
From the information provided, I understand that, in attempting to withdraw from an ISA 
using online banking, a pop-up warning appears that requires a tick to be placed in a box to 
confirm: I understand that this transfer will count towards this years ISA allowance for the 
destination ISA. This warning is headed Youre attempting to withdraw money from your 
tax-free ISA. But I appreciate Mr J disputes seeing this warning. 
Halifax has also told us that that it has an ISA transfer screen available through a customers 
online banking, which has instructions to follow to transfer in an existing ISA, and there is a 
dedicated ISA section on its website that explains how to transfer an existing ISA into a new 
one and the time this would take to be completed.
 
In the circumstances here, Mr J chose not to renew his Bank of Scotland ISA, instead opting 
to open a new one with Halifax because of the interest rate. So he was making a change to 
his ISA through wanting to move his savings into a different ISA provided by a different 
brand. Although I appreciate his reasons for believing he was completing a simple transfer 
between his accounts that wouldnt impact upon his ISA savings, this wasnt the case. 
I also acknowledge that Halifax has been unable to provide Mr Js ISA application as it says 
this has not been stored on its system, and he feels that this is evidence that he didnt make 
an application for the Halifax ISA. However, his account was opened online, and he then 
transferred the balance of his existing ISA to it. 
Overall, while I understand Mr J may consider the two entities to be the same, I think that 
Halifax provided him with sufficient information about how a transfer between ISAs should be 
completed through a specific request. 
Im sorry that this has meant that Mr J has lost out on being able to use the full amount of his 
ISA allowance for that tax year. I can understand that this will be disappointing and 
frustrating in these circumstances. But I dont think that this was a result of Halifax doing 
anything wrongly or unfairly.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman