DRN-2843431
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the way Hiscox Insurance Company Limited handled her claim. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs G - trading as Tempting Solutions - took out a business insurance 
policy. The policy includes personal accident cover which will pay Mrs G a weekly benefit of 
£250 in the event she suffers an accidental bodily injury which results in temporary 
disablement.
Mrs G said she slipped on her left ankle during icy weather on 1 February 2019, so she 
contacted Hiscox on 4 February to submit a claim. Hiscox reviewed the claim and initially 
accepted it and made benefit payments from 20 February 2019. 
The claim was reviewed the following year. Mrs Gs GP said shed sustained a left ankle 
injury in early December 2018. This concerned Hiscox, so they asked Mrs G about this and 
she said the GP had made a clerical error. 
Hiscox reviewed Mrs Gs full medical records and identified she had attended the minor 
injuries unit in December 2018 following a twisted ankle. So, they disagreed there had been 
a clerical error and concluded Mrs G had suffered an ankle injury in 2018, before the policy 
was taken out in 2019 - so the claim wasnt covered. 
Under the terms of the policy, Hiscox cancelled cover and requested to recover the benefit 
funds Mrs G had already received. 
Mrs G disputed this injury had occurred before she took out the policy. She felt shed 
provided enough evidence to show the injury in December 2018 was insignificant and the 
main injury took place in February 2019.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She thought Hiscox had been fair to cease 
cover and recover the benefit funds already received. This is because the medical evidence 
showed Mrs G had visited the minor injuries unit in December 2018 following her injury, so 
she felt it was significant and should have been disclosed.  
Mrs G didnt agree. In summary she said the medical evidence shows the accident most 
likely happened in 2019: 
 She said her visit to the minor injuries unit in 2018 was an overreaction on her 
part as her medical records showed there was no problem.  
 She referred to a letter from her consultant which said the injury she is now being 
treated for is entirely consistent and on par with her explanation of how the 
accident in 2019 happened. She said this has been sent to Hiscox but doesnt 
appear to have been considered as part of the review. 
 Mrs G suggested Hiscox engage with an independent medical professional to 
examine the medical notes surrounding her 2019 injury.
 Mrs Gs GP records have been updated to show she disagrees with the content 
about her ankle injury starting in December 2018.  
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the injury with Mrs Gs ankle. She has provided a lot of supporting 
evidence about her injury and surgery earlier this year, which I have fully considered. 
However, Im only going to refer to the evidence which I think is relevant to my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Hiscox has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive considered the relevant policy terms which say;
We will not make any payment for:
3. any accidental bodily injury or illness directly or indirectly arising out of or
contributed to by:
f. any physical defect, infirmity or medical condition known to the insured person
at inception, unless the defect, infirmity or condition has been without the need of
any medical advice or treatment during the 24 months before inception;
Mrs Gs GP provided Hiscox with a letter stating she sustained a left ankle injury in early 
December 2018 and was seen in early February 2019 due to persistent pain and weakness. 
Mrs G says this is incorrect and has since contacted her GP surgery and had a note added 
to say she disagrees with this entry. 
Ive also taken account of the rest of medical evidence. There are appointment notes where 
its recorded Mrs Gs injury occurred from a fall on ice in February. But the physiotherapist 
that saw Mrs G on 5 February 2019, following the fall she says took place on 1 February 
2019, makes no reference to this event. Instead, he refers to an ankle injury sustained in 
early December 2018. He also mentions recurrent ankle pain and Mrs G having good and 
bad days. All of which suggest a pre-existing injury rather than one that took place a few 
days ago. 
Ive also considered the notes made during Mrs Gs attendance at the minor injuries unit in 
March 2019 following a knee injury, which state over the last year she has had several falls 
and ankle injuries. This suggests Mrs G has had a longstanding problem with ankle injuries. 
Based on the above, I dont think Hiscox have acted unfairly by excluding cover. Multiple 
pieces of medical evidence refer to Mrs Gs concern at suffering from previous ankle 
problems. So I think its reasonable for Hiscox to have concluded the February 2019 ankle 
injury most likely arose from a previous ankle problem. And Mrs G was aware of this at the 
time she took the policy out. 
The policy terms state it will only pay for such an injury if it hasnt received medical attention 
in the two years before inception. But Mrs G attended the minor injuries unit in December 2018 for her injured ankle, and the policy was taken out the following month, so this 
exception doesnt apply. 
Mrs G has suggested Hiscox engage with an independent medical professional to examine 
the medical notes surrounding her 2019 injury. Hiscox did instruct a company medical officer 
(CMO) to review all the medical evidence in October 2020  this was a consultant 
specialising in foot and ankle surgery. Ive also taken this professional medical opinion into 
consideration. 
In summary, the CMO concluded there is good documentation of there having been a left 
ankle injury on or about 5 December 2018. He noted that the physiotherapist who saw Mrs 
G on 5 February 2019 recorded the injury was sustained in early December 2018, rather 
than a few days before the appointment. He explained in my experience attendances at 
physiotherapy appointments are much longer than appointments with a GP, considerable 
attention is given to the exact history. So he thought it was unlikely Mrs G had mentioned a 
fall in February during this visit, because it wouldve been recorded. 
It is his view that the physiotherapist who saw Mrs G on 5 February thought he was dealing 
with the consequences of a left ankle inversion injury that occurred in early December 2018, 
but on a background of persistent and recurrent left ankle weakness. 
Ive considered the additional medical evidence provided by Mrs G from November 2020 
confirming her injury is consistent with a fall in February 2019. But this doesnt persuade me 
to change my opinion, as the consultant says Mrs G told him there was no pre-existing 
problem with her ankle before the February fall. So he wasnt made aware of the ankle injury 
she reported in 2018, so he wasnt able to consider any impact that previous injury may have 
caused. 
Ive also thought about whether its fair for Hiscox to recover the money its already paid. 
Under the general conditions of the policy it explains:
3. If you or anyone entitled to cover in respect of any claim or loss, or anyone on
behalf of you or such other person, tries to deceive us by deliberately giving us
false information or making a fraudulent claim under this policy then:
a. we shall be entitled to give you notice of termination of the policy with effect
from the date of any fraudulent act or claim or the provision of such false information;
b. we shall be entitled to refuse to make any payment under the policy in respect
of any claim made or any loss occurring after the date of any fraudulent act or claim
or the provision of such false information;
c. you must reimburse all payments already made by us relating to claims made
or losses occurring after the date of any fraudulent act or claim or the provision of
such false information; and
d. we shall be entitled to retain all premiums paid.
This does not affect your rights in relation to any claim made or loss occurring
Before the date of any fraudulent act or claim or the provision of such false information.
I think Hiscox have applied this term fairly because Mrs G didnt disclose any previous 
problem or medical intervention with her ankle  even when Hiscox questioned her on the 
GPs comments regarding a 2018 ankle injury. 
Mrs G has explained her visit to the minor injury unit in 2018 was an overreaction on her part 
because there didnt end up being a problem once she was checked over. But Im not 
persuaded this means it shouldnt have been disclosed. The injury was significant enough 
for Mrs G to seek medical advice at the time, and the notes from the appointment say Mrs G 
was in increasing pain and worried. I also note when Hiscox asked Mrs G about the GPs reference to a 2018 ankle injury, she 
said this was a clerical error - rather than raising the argument shes given above. I 
appreciate Mrs G has said she made this comment before reviewing her own medical 
records, but I still think its fair for Hiscox to conclude Mrs G provided false information, so 
they can cancel the policy and seek to recover the funds shes already received. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman