DRN-3412236
The complaint
Mr O complains about the amount that hes been charged by Lex Autolease Limited for 
damage to a car that he returned when his hire agreement ended.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr O under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease in March 2019. 
The car was collected from him in March 2021 when the agreement ended by a third party 
on behalf of Lex Autolease. The third party inspected the car and identified damage to the 
car which was recorded in photos and on video. Lex Autolease charged Mr O £26 for paint 
chips on the bonnet, £77 for a scratched front bumper, £117 for a scratched door, £158 for a 
scratched quarter panel and £110 for a scratched wing  but it reduced the total charge by 
£100 to £388.
Mr O complained to it about the charges and said that hed had the car checked by a 
reputable car repair company before it was collected from him and there was no chargeable 
damage. Lex Autolease said that the damage was outside of the tolerance allowed in the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing and Association guidelines on fair wear and tear and the 
charges were valid. Mr O didnt pay the charges so Lex Autolease defaulted his account and 
recorded adverse information on his credit file. Mr O wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He felt that the 
photo evidence was enough to show that the damages fell outside of fair wear and tear. He 
also felt that Lex Autolease had followed the correct procedures prior to issuing the default 
notice and he was satisfied that all the charges that it had applied were acceptable. Mr O 
has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the hire agreement under which the car was supplied to Mr O says: If the Vehicle 
when returned is not in good order, repair and condition for its age and mileage 
assessed in accordance with guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  you must also pay us the actual or if we choose, the 
estimated cost of the work required to put the Vehicle in such condition. We shall not 
be required to carry out repairs to the Vehicle prior to its disposal by us;
the car was collected from Mr O in March 2021 by a third party on behalf of Lex 
Autolease when the hire agreement ended - the inspection report recorded the cars 
mileage as 18,493 miles and included photos and a video showing damage to the car 
which was paint chips on the bonnet and a scratched front bumper, door, quarter 
panel and wing;
Mr O says that hed had the car checked by a reputable car repair company before it 
was collected from him and there was no chargeable damage but I consider that the 
damage shown in the photos and video is more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association guidelines and I consider that its fair and reasonable for Lex 
Autolease to charge him for that damage;
Lex Autolease charged Mr O £388 for the damage, which included a reduction of 
£100, and it was clear from the hire agreement that it could charge for the estimated 
cost of the work and wasnt required to carry out the repairs;
Ive not been provided with evidence to show that the charges that have been made 
arent a fair and reasonable estimate of the repair costs and Im not persuaded that 
the charges are excessive so I dont consider that its unfair or unreasonable for Lex 
Autolease to have charged Mr O £388 for the damage;
Mr O didnt pay the charges so Lex Autolease defaulted his account and recorded 
adverse information on his credit file  I consider that the information that its 
recorded on his credit file is a true and accurate record of his payments and, 
although Mr O has described the impact that its having on him, Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Lex 
Autolease to remove that information; and 
I dont consider that Lex Autolease has acted incorrectly in these circumstances and, 
although I sympathise with Mr O for the issues that hes been caused, I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to reduce or waive the charges that 
its made to Mr O for the damage to the car, to pay him any compensation or to take 
any other action in response to his complaint.
I suggest that that Mr O now contacts Lex Autolease to either pay the charges or to try to 
agree an affordable repayment arrangement to repay that amount. If he doesnt do so, I 
consider it to be likely that it will take further action against him, to the extent that its legally 
entitled to do so, to try to recover the charges from him.
My final decision
My decision is that I don t uphold Mr Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman