DRN-2767958
The complaint
Miss M complains that shes not received any account statements from Creation Financial 
Services Limited (CFS) since requesting a change of address around four years ago.
What happened
Miss M says that she hasnt received any account statements from CFS since she changed 
address in 2018. 
On 16 July 2020 Miss M raised a complaint to CFS about not receiving her account 
statements, and that her account had been passed to a debt recovery agency, which Ill refer 
to as B. 
On 10 September 2020 CFS sent Miss M their final response letter (FRL). CFS didnt uphold 
Miss Ms complaint. CFS said they had no information on their system to say that the 
statements hadnt been received by Miss M, and they hadnt been notified of a change of 
address. CFS also defended their decision to pass Miss Ms account to B. CFS system 
notes show that Miss M had cancelled her monthly direct debit for her account payments. As 
payments to Miss Ms account had stopped, CFS said they felt it was in line with their terms 
and conditions to transfer her account to B.
On 23 September 2020, Mr N, a representative for Miss M, brought her complaint to us here. 
However, to keep things simple Ive referred to Miss M throughout my decision. 
One of our investigators looked in to Miss Ms concerns but didnt think CFS had done 
anything wrong so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss M was unhappy with the investigators view. Miss M said that not receiving statements 
has caused her stress and uncertainty from not knowing the details of her account and has 
made managing her payments difficult. So, shes asked that her complaint is referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is that Miss M says she failed to receive account statements from CFS for a 
number of years. And that in July 2020 CFS had passed her account to B to recover 
outstanding debts. CFS have confirmed this in their correspondence from B confirming the 
account was with them and the system notes from CFS confirming what had happened.
Having considered this, it seems to me there are three key issues for me to consider in 
relation to this complaint:
1. were CFS at fault for not changing Miss Ms address?
2. are there any mitigating circumstances to take into account?
3. was it fair for CFS to transfer Miss Ms account to B?
were CFS at fault for not changing Miss Ms address?
Miss M provided us with a copy of an email that shed sent to CFS in February 2018 advising 
of her change of address. In addition to this Miss M said that a message was sent via the 
CFS secure portal.  In their FRL, CFS explained that they didnt have any records to show 
that a change of address request had been made by Miss M, and that no markers were on 
the account to prevent the statements from being sent out. 
To support what theyve said, CFS provided screenshots to confirm the change of address 
was only notified to them in July 2020 by B. They also provided a copy of the statements that 
were issued by them to Miss M over the past four years. Whilst I dont dispute what CFS has 
said, Im persuaded that Miss M sent the email to a valid email address in February 2018. 
CFS has said that the email address used by Miss M, to notify of her change of address, 
was for their complaints department. However, I think its fair to say that CFS should have 
done more to ensure Miss Ms email was followed up. For example, CFS could have replied 
with the correct email address or redirected Miss Ms email to the correct team for 
processing.
So, from the information provided, although Im persuaded that CFS hadnt had Miss Ms 
request recorded on their system, Im satisfied that they were informed, and they couldve 
done more to ensure the information was recorded and processed. So, in the circumstances 
I think its reasonable that CFS should compensate Miss M for the inconvenience caused.
are there any mitigating circumstances to take into account?
While looking into Miss Ms complaint, our investigator enquired why Miss M hadnt notified 
CFS sooner that she hadnt been receiving any statements, despite requesting a change of 
address in February 2018. Miss M explained to us the reason she hadnt chased CFS was 
because she presumed the statements were going to her previous address, and she didnt 
have any further contact details for CFS besides the email address or secure portal. 
Miss M explained that the impact of not receiving her statements left her feeling stressed 
with not knowing the details of her account. And although I dont dispute this, I think it would 
have been reasonable for Miss M to follow-up with CFS, even if it was with another email, or 
through their secure portal at some point. Particularly when she realised the statements 
werent being received at her new address. I dont think its reasonable to hold CFS 
responsible for the entire period Miss M hadnt been receiving statements. I think its likely 
that had Miss M sent a follow-up email theres every chance the matter could have been 
resolved much sooner.
In May 2020 CFS placed a block on Miss Ms account as they hadnt been receiving their 
monthly payments. CFS explained that the block on the account also prevented statements 
from being issued, until at least six months of consecutive payments had been received. So, 
I acknowledge the block on the account would have further prevented any statements from 
being issued around that time. 
In the circumstances, Im persuaded that Miss M should have done more once she realised 
the statements werent being received. 
was it fair for CFS to transfer Miss Ms account to B?
Ive already explained why I think CFS shouldve actioned Miss Ms change of address 
request sooner. However, I also need to consider whether it was fair for them to transfer Miss Ms account to B. In addition, Ive thought about whether not receiving the statements 
led to Miss M not making her payments.
Miss M said she felt stressed not knowing how much she owed on her account, and that 
managing her payments became difficult. I dont dispute how Miss M feels here. However, 
as Ive referred to previously, I do believe that Miss M couldve done more to ensure her 
payments were kept up to date. As previously explained, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Miss M to contact CFS as shed not heard anything, particularly before 
deciding to cancel her monthly direct debit. 
According to CFS system notes, Miss M cancelled her direct debit in January 2020, and 
some months later CFS placed a block on Miss Ms account because a number of payments 
had been missed. At this point CFS referred Miss Ms account to B, who CFS say were able 
to trace Miss M and arrange a payment in July 2020. B were also at that time able to provide 
an update of Miss Ms address to CFS. This is also shown on CFS system notes.
As payments to the account had ceased for a number of months, I think it was reasonable 
for CFS to use B to assist in recovering any arrears.
So, in the circumstances, and for the reasons explained, Im persuaded that CFS were 
acting fairly when they transferred Miss Ms account to B.
Putting things right
Miss M said that she felt stressed not knowing the details of her account. And although I 
dont dispute this, Ive already established that I think it would have been reasonable for Miss 
M to chase CFS with another request. Having said that I think the initial stages of not 
knowing her account details would have caused her some concern. So, in the circumstances 
I find that CFS should compensate Miss M £50 for the inconvenience caused to her for not 
initially processing her change of address request.
Miss M had contacted us recently to explain that she still hasnt received any account 
statements from CFS. On her complaint form, completed in September 2020, Miss M said up 
to that point shed received two statements from CFS; Although, its not clear whether she 
received those statements at her new address. CFS have confirmed to us that Miss Ms 
address has been updated on their system. In addition, they sent an email to Miss M in May 
2021 advising she should be receiving her statements. I think theres every chance this is 
likely to be an issue with the post or an inherent issue within CFS systems. Miss M may find 
it helpful to speak to CFS in order to have this issue resolved.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I instruct Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Pay Miss M £50 compensation for the reasons explained in my decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman