DRN-1826390
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr E says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr E applied for a credit card by post with Capital One in 2003. At the same time he bought 
a PPI policy which wouldve helped cover his credit card repayments for up to 12 months at 
a time if he couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. It also provided life 
cover for the outstanding balance. 
Mr E says he was told that it would improve his chances of being approved for the credit if 
he took the PPI. He says he didnt need it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Es complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr E disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es case.
Mr E doesnt dispute that he had a choice about buying the PPI, or that he agreed to take it. 
Capital One has provided a copy of his application form and I can see that he ticked to say 
that he wanted it and it shows that he had a choice. Mr E says he contacted Capital One 
before he completed the application and was told that if he took the PPI hed more likely be 
successful in his credit card application.
Capital One, understandably, doesnt have a record of this conversation from 17 years ago. 
Capital One says that taking PPI wouldnt have made a difference to its decision to provide 
the credit. There is nothing on the application form to suggest it would affect the lending 
decision. On balance, I cant safely say that Mr E was misled in the way he describes. 
On the information I have available to me Im satisfied Mr E bought the PPI understanding 
he had a choice about it. 
Capital One didnt give Mr E a personal recommendation about the PPI so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and the benefit would have been paid in addition to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay he received from his employer - so it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. I also havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr E. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
So, I dont think Mr E lost out as a result of anything Capital One might have done wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint, so it follows that Capital One (Europe) Plc doesnt have 
to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman