DRN-4054809
The complaint
Mr L complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) cancelled his insurance policy without 
telling him, and will not now consider a claim he needs to make.
What happened
Mr L holds as accident insurance policy with Covea, which provides cash payments in 
certain circumstances  mainly for injury or illness related to an accident.
In 2022 Mr L wanted to make a claim on his insurance policy. He contacted Covea and was 
told Covea had stopped providing the policy he had, and that it had written to him in May 
2021 to tell him the policy wouldnt continue after the end of June the same year.
Mr L said he didnt receive the letter and complained to Covea about this, but Covea 
wouldnt re-instate the cover.
Mr L asked us to review his complaint. Our investigator thought that Covea should have 
made more than one effort to contact Mr L. He thought Covea should pay Mr L £150 
compensation for the distress hes been caused. He also thought that, if Mr L brought the 
premiums up to date, Covea should re-instate the cover and consider Mr Ls claim.
Covea didnt agree and pointed out that it thought Mr L should have noticed he was no 
longer paying the monthly premium and queried this.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Cancelling an insurance contract can have far reaching effects, so its important that an 
insurer make reasonable efforts to both tell a customer that a policy is going to be cancelled 
(or discontinued as was the case here), and confirm the cancellation once its happened.
Covea wrote to say the policy wouldnt continue and offered Mr L an alternate insurance 
policy but it didnt subsequently confirm that cover had ended. 
Mr L says the policy was important to him, and it seems reasonable to think hed have 
bought the replacement policy offered if hed known his current cover was going to end.  
We know Mr L was having problems with postal deliveries, but I cant say the non-delivery of 
the letter was Coveas fault as it has no control over what happens to letters once theyve left 
Covea. However, I do think Covea should have made contact a second time  perhaps with 
a follow up letter or email  either before the policy ended or soon after it stopped.  If it had 
done that Id have concluded that it had made reasonable efforts to let Mr L know he wasnt 
going to be covered going forwards.
Covea says Mr L should have noticed he was no longer paying the monthly premium. Mr L 
says it was for a small amount and that the relevant direct debit instruction remained on his 
bank account  although Covea stopped claiming payments. I think Mr Ls response is a 
reasonable explanation of why he may not have noticed the premium wasnt being collected. 
The premium was for under £10, so not likely to have had such an impact on his account 
overall that hed have thought something was.
I dont think Covea did enough to let Mr L know it would no longer be insuring him.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended Covea pay Mr L £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered, and I think thats reasonable.
At the moment Mr L has no cover  but neither has he been paying any premiums since mid-
2021. For me to ask Covea to consider the claim, Mr L will need to pay any premiums hed 
have paid if hed taken the new cover offered. I can see there were various levels of cover 
on offer, so for the purpose of working out how much Mr L needs to pay I think Covea should 
select the cover closest to that Mr L previously had.
If Mr L pays the outstanding premiums then I think it fair for Covea to re-instate cover so that 
it can consider the claim under the new terms and conditions. If Mr L decides not to bring the 
premiums up to date then Covea need not consider the claim. 
For clarity, Im not saying Covea must meet the claim. That will depend upon the nature of 
the claim and the relevant terms and conditions contained in the policy. Its not appropriate 
for me to comment on the claim itself as Covea hasnt assessed it at this point. 
I should also say that Im not saying Covea must continue cover once it had considered this 
claim: with the appropriate notice, Covea need not continue cover in the future
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to take the 
actions outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2023. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman