DRN-3909918
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard defaulted his two 
accounts despite agreeing payment plans.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 January. This is what I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold it, so there will be a different outcome to
what our investigator proposed. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a
chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 1 February 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard defaulted his two
accounts despite agreeing payment plans.
What happened
Mr B had an overseas business and, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, his financial affairs
were severely affected.
In 2021, Mr Bs business was still recovering and in October he missed payments on his two
Barclaycard accounts.
By December 2021, Mr B had missed three payments on his accounts and Barclaycard
issued default notices setting out a payment deadline of 21 February 2022.
Mr B contacted Barclaycard on 27 January 2022 and a Barclaycard representative put a 30
day hold on the card and said a default could be avoided if a payment arrangement was set
up before 28 February 2022.
Mr B contacted Barclaycard before the 28 February 2022 and set up payment plans on both
his accounts.
However, Barclaycard subsequently registered defaults on both accounts. This is because
the deadline to avoid a default was the 21 February 2022 and Mr Bs actions, including
agreeing a payment plan, were too late.
Mr B complained to Barclaycard. They accepted mistakes had been made in stating the 28
February 2022 and agreeing a plan after the default notice deadline. Barclaycard apologised
for this and offered Mr B £150.
However, Barclaycard said they wouldnt reverse the defaults. This is because they sent
letters confirming the deadline to prevent defaults occurring and Mr B had not made any
payments since 14 September 2021. They added that they are obliged to report information
to credit reference agencies.
Mr B complained to our service and our investigator didnt think there were grounds to ask
Barclaycard to remove the defaults. She also thought the amount of compensation offered
was a fair resolution.
As Mr B remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator and I intend to uphold this
complaint.
I first considered how Mr B was impacted by Covid-19 and Im satisfied that he had
characteristics of vulnerability according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on
this topic.
I then listened to Mr Bs calls with Barclaycard and also looked closely at the errors that
Barclaycard have acknowledged.
Regarding the first Barclaycard error in January 2022. A Barclaycard representative talks
about placing a 30-day hold on Mr Bs accounts and clearly informs him of ways to avoid a
default. He says Mr B can either bring his accounts up to date or put an arrangement in
place before the 28 February 2022. And, although the default notice, dated 21 January 2022, 
has a different deadline of 21 February 2022 it stated:
If you're unable to make this payment, you must call us immediately on 0800 161 5258 and
enter an arrangement to clear your arrears. We're here 8am - 9pm Monday - Friday and 9am
- 4pm Saturday. If the action required by this notice is taken before the date shown, the
action below will not be taken in respect of the breach.
So, I consider the purpose of the letter to be a prompt to action and Mr B followed the
instructions. Mr B called Barclaycard and, as he intended to set up an arrangement, I think it
was reasonable of him to both believe and diarise what he was told - that the 28 February
2022 was the deadline to avoid a default.
Im persuaded that it was Mr Bs intent to set up a payment arrangement. This is because he
talks about the importance of avoiding a default, says he will get in touch to set up an
arrangement and talks about diarising the deadline date. Also, he comments on his business
and finances picking up following the Covid-19 crisis. 
Furthermore, Mr B does get in touch before 28 February and a payment plan is both 
discussed and approved.
So, I think it is unfair for Barclaycard to maintain that the 21 February 2022 was the deadline.
Also, I found it difficult to understand how Barclaycard could then make a second error as, if
the default action had already occurred on 21 February 2022, Mr B shouldve been informed
of this on the calls dated 24 and 25 February 2022 and not led to believe the payment plan
negated default action.
So, considering the above including Mr Bs vulnerability and Barclaycards approval of a
payment plan, I think the fair and reasonable action shouldve been for Barclaycard to havehonoured the deadline 28 February and the payment plan that was agreed prior to this date.
So, Im upholding this complaint as I dont think its fair or reasonable for Barclaycard to have
defaulted Mr Bs accounts here. Barclaycard should remove the default and any adverse
information recorded from February 2022. Also, Barclaycard should honour the payment
plan agreed on 25 February 2022.
In addition, to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by their errors including the
unfair processing of a default, Barclaycard should pay Mr B £250 compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to:
 remove any adverse information recorded from February 2022 including the default;
 bring back the account from any third-party collection agent (if this is the case) so
that Barclaycard can implement the payment plan agreed in February 2022;
 pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience less any amounts already
paid in connection to this complaint
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 1 February
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
Both parties responded before the deadline.
Mr B agreed with the provisional decision and said:
I have no further information to put forward regarding my case.
Barclays also agreed the provisional decision and said:
In the circumstances, we agree to the recommendations outlined in your Provisional 
Decision. If Mr B agrees please let me know and I will amend his credit reference data, we 
will bring the accounts back from the debt collection agency and we will set up the 
repayment plans as agreed in February 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything including the responses received, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision, which I adopt in full as part of this final decision. Im satisfied 
Barclays treated Mr B unfairly and Im pleased to note it agrees it needs to take steps to put 
things right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to:
  remove any adverse information recorded for Mr B from February 2022 including the 
default;
  bring back Mr Bs account from any third-party collection agent (if this is the case) so that the payment plan agreed in February 2022 can be implemented;
  pay Mr B £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience less any amounts already 
paid in connection to this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman