DRN-4372052
The complaint
Miss F complains about the quality of a car she financed on hire purchase with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SFL).
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to the parties so I will cover them only briefly here and 
focus on my findings.
The car was supplied to Miss F in June 2022. In summary, Miss F says that a few days after 
it was supplied she noticed it was vibrating in certain situations such as at higher speeds on 
the motorway. She says that it has been back to the dealer several times to have work done 
but the issue continues. She wants to reject it for a refund.
Our investigator concluded the car was not of satisfactory quality, therefore she directed SFL 
to take it back, end the finance agreement (with nothing further to pay and removing any 
arrears) and pay compensation.
SFL did not agree with this. In summary it says:
 an independent report from September 2022 does not confirm an inherent fault with 
the car. Despite this the dealer paid for a gearbox specialist to repair the car at a cost 
of over £2,100 and deliver it back to Miss F - and SFL also compensated her £250.
 a follow up report from an independent expert in December 2022 confirms that there 
is no fault with the car and the issues are due to general wear and tear. 
 Miss F has travelled several thousand miles since supply which causes it to question 
why the car is not durable.
 the car when supplied was several years old with almost 77,500 miles accrued which 
indicates the issue is caused by wear and tear. 
Since the investigator issued her view Miss F has said that she stopped driving the car since 
the end of October 2022 and it is now in storage.
The matter has come to me for decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter as follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be commenting on all the evidence submitted by the parties  only what I consider to 
be central. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role in resolving disputes 
informally.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. SFL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles 
history.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
SFL supplied Miss F with a second-hand car. Here I note the car had travelled around 
77,500 miles and was several years old at the point of supply.  So it is fair to say that the 
reasonable person would accept that it is likely to require more repairs and maintenance 
than a newer, less road worn car. The price agreed was £14,499, which would be much less 
than the new price but is not an insignificant amount of money for a car.
I note that Miss F has mentioned problems with things like wipers, tyres and brake pads. 
However, these things are likely to be considered usual wear and tear in a car of this age 
and mileage. 
The main issue Miss F complains about appears to be an ongoing vibration and judder 
when changing gears at higher (motorway) speeds  which she has indicated has made the 
car uncomfortable to drive and has meant she has not felt safe using it. So this is the issue 
I have focused on.
Miss F has provided credible testimony to explain that the vibration was evident within days 
of the car being supplied. She says:
there was a vibration and noise coming from the car, a noise that can only be explained 
as a rotational noise and a problem when changing the drive modes (can only be described 
as a judder)
She says the dealership told her to get it looked at by a local garage, which she did. Then 
some repairs were carried out to try and eliminate the problem.
Miss Fs credible testimony is backed up by invoices showing the early issues she 
experienced and the attempts to solve it. I note an invoice from a third party repairer dated 
within about two weeks of supply states that Miss F reported vibration when breaking at 
motorway speeds. This is important  as it shows to me the issue with vibration central to 
this complaint was present with the car at an early stage and likely when Miss F was first 
supplied the car.I can see that after several attempts at finding the source of the vibration (along with repairs) 
an independent report was carried out in September 2022. 
The report appears to identify what the Miss F had been concerned with from the start and 
says I could feel a vibration through the whole car..it appears to be a rotational vibration. 
It then goes on to identify an issue with the transmission, the symptoms are consistent with 
the transmission clutches slipping under certain load conditions; this is normally caused by 
the transmission clutches having minimal future life expectancy and therefore not in a 
durable condition. The expert goes on to recommend that the car is taken to a transmission 
specialist for repair with repair costs be borne by the sales agent on the grounds of 
durability. He says that the car needs a complete transmission overhaul and clutch 
replacement.
SFL has indicated that this report does not confirm a fault with the car but I disagree with 
this. It is quite clear from the inspectors comments that the car has a fault causing excessive 
vibration which needs addressing. I also note that a repair to the automatic transmission was 
then attempted costing in excess of £2,000. I think it extremely unlikely that this sort of repair 
would have been agreed had the car not been found faulty.
I accept that just because a car is faulty does not mean it is not of satisfactory quality. I note 
that SFL refers to wear and tear. And I accept that certain issues with an older, higher 
mileage car can be put down to reasonably expected wear and tear. I have turned my mind 
to whether in the particular circumstances here a reasonable person would consider the 
goods to be of satisfactory quality.
I have considered what the expert says in his report about durability and although SFL has a 
different perspective my interpretation is that he is saying the symptoms (excessive 
vibration) indicate the transmission is failing  and that in the circumstances it isnt 
sufficiently durable or acceptable that the consumer foot the bill for it.
Even if I accept there are alternative interpretations here around the comments regarding 
durability of a transmission I also note the overall circumstances here in considering whether 
the car is of satisfactory quality. In doing so while I have regard to the age and mileage of 
the car at the point of sale I note that the vibration issue (which was later identified as linked 
to a major mechanical problem with the transmission) was discovered within days of Miss F 
using it. This shows it was likely present when she acquired the car rather than something 
that developed later. It seems that age and mileage notwithstanding a reasonable person 
would not expect to be sold this car for £14,499 with what appears to be an existing and 
significant vibration issue that requires immediate attention with repairs costing in excess of 
£2,000. I acknowledge that the car has now covered notable mileage  but when the issues 
with the excessive vibration were first identified this was not the case. Miss F has indicated 
she had to drive the car to get to work. And being able to drive a car, even longer distances 
does not in itself make it of satisfactory quality.
For completeness I note SFL has referred to juddering being a characteristic of this type or 
model of car. While I accept that certain cars will drive with different degrees of smoothness 
to me juddering and the other symptoms described here indicate the issue is a fault rather 
than a reasonably acceptable characteristic of a particular model or type of vehicle.
In summary, I think there is compelling evidence to show the car was supplied to Miss F with 
significant mechanical problems  and that only after troubleshooting did it finally become 
clear this was the case. And despite the age and mileage of car at the point of sale I dont 
think the reasonable person would consider the car of satisfactory quality as a result.Because the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply Miss F has certain 
remedies under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. One of those is repair. I understand that  
repairs have been carried out but Miss F says they have not been effective  she claims that 
the car is still suffering from the vibration/gearbox issues which were present when it was 
first supplied. SFL disputes this and says that any current issues with the car are down to 
wear and tear.
I have considered what SFL has said in its detailed submissions and acknowledge that some 
information suggests that the car is presently suffering from issues as a result of usually 
expected wear and tear. However, I think that, on balance the evidence points to a failure to 
effectively repair the original significant mechanical issues originally identified with the 
transmission leading up to and including the expert report in September 2022.
I note that a report commissioned by Miss F and carried out in November 2022 shortly after 
the major works to the transmission/clutch says that the car is not engaging drive correctly at 
random intervals. It goes on to detail occasional slips/jolts during gear changes and 
concludes there is a fault with the automatic gearbox. It also identifies a rotational noise.
I note there is then a further report commissioned by SFL in December 2022 which confirms 
the car is still suffering from vibration as follows:
The vehicle is showing brief periods of vibration under acceleration not dissimilar to 
symptoms experienced from drive shaft wear, however this would require further checks 
under workshop control conditions to confirm.
I also note that Miss F says that when the car was returned after the gearbox repair she 
used it a couple of times and stopped using it completely when issues with the gearbox 
caused her to get stuck in a fuel station. Miss Fs testimony, strength of feeling and decision 
to stop using the car (which I understand is now in storage) is also a persuasive factor here 
in indicating that the original (and significant) mechanical issues were not remedied by the 
major repairs carried out to the transmission.
On the face of it the evidence persuasively points to the original issue with vibration not 
having been remedied effectively. 
I note the business that carried out the December 2022 inspection does reference a belief 
that normal wear and tear is the cause of the vibration. However, I also note that it is also 
stated (in the report and in later clarification commentary) that the cause of the vibration is 
only a suggestion and will need further investigation under workshop control conditions to 
confirm. So it is far from conclusive. I also note the road test carried out was around 8 miles 
and only with brief periods at higher speeds despite a recommendation in a prior report that 
after the repairs an extended road test should be carried out. So arguably the full extent of 
the vibration and associated issues (which appear to be worse at higher speeds and 
temperatures) was not experienced. So overall, I dont think this December 2022 report or 
the later comments from the inspection business persuasively (in light of the other 
information here) shows the original mechanical issues have been satisfactorily remedied or 
that this vibration happens to be some other issue unrelated to the original vibration problem 
or as a result of reasonably expected wear and tear.
I appreciate there will be an element of uncertainty in cases like these  however, I need to 
decide what is most likely to be the case. And the evidence here points to the original 
mechanical issues which were present within days of taking the car (and causing the car to 
fall below the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory) being ongoing. 
Therefore, I have considered what remedy would be a fair one to put things right. I note that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows a supplier to make one attempt at repair before the 
consumer can claim other remedies. Here it appears there have been multiple attempts to 
remedy the vibration so I have considered other remedies including a final right to reject.
I understand that the car is now in storage and that Miss F is unwilling to continue using it so 
I dont think a partial refund is acceptable remedy. I also note Miss Fs actions are consistent 
with rejection of the car. Overall, I think rejection is a fair remedy here. SFL should therefore 
take back the car at no further cost or inconvenience to Miss F, end the finance agreement 
and refund her the value of any deposit or part exchange contribution if any (by the looks of 
it there wasnt one here).
Miss F will not get a full refund of her payments because she has had notable use of the car. 
So I need to fairly reflect that. But I also need to think about any money she is fairly due back 
(or arrears that should be written off) in the particular circumstances here. 
Miss F says she stopped using the car at the end of October 2022 because of the issues 
with it. This seems about right because the repairs on the gearbox appear to have been 
completed around this time (although it isnt entirely clear as the invoices are from the start 
of November 2022). I understand this is around the time she stopped paying for the 
agreement. In the round I think it is fair that SFL write off the arrears which have accrued 
(and any related charges) to reflect Miss F ceasing use of the car because she reasonably 
stopped using it as a result of the quality issues identified here.
Before she stopped using the car Miss F did not have completely unimpaired use of the car 
because it was vibrating excessively under certain conditions (namely motorway driving). So 
I think she should get a percentage refund of a portion of her monthly payments up until she 
stopped using the car to reflect this. Working out what fairly reflects impaired use is not a 
science, and I note she was not financing a brand new car here, however, it is not pleasant 
or expected to have juddering and vibration of the kind evident in this case. I also note there 
appear to have been some intermittent periods where Miss F didnt have the car at all when 
it was in for repairs (and no courtesy car provided either) so I have thought about this when 
factoring in compensation. Overall, I think SFL should also refund 10% of each monthly 
payment Miss F has made up to the point she stopped paying for the car to reflect impaired 
use and the intermittent periods where she did not have use of the car leading up to the time 
she stopped using it completely.
Miss F stopped paying for the car in October 2022  and while it is usually best practice to 
continue to make payments I dont think in the circumstances here it would be fair for her 
credit file to be impacted by her decision. She has explained she had to stop paying so she 
could fund alternative transport. So I dont think it is fair for her to have adverse information 
on her credit file as a result.
Miss F is claiming back the cost of storage of the car. I think there are questions as to how 
reasonable these costs are and whether Miss F could have reasonably opted for a more 
inexpensive solution. However, in any event because she is the customer of SFL and took 
out the finance I need to be persuaded that she (as the eligible complainant to our service) 
has suffered a financial loss here. From the evidence she has provided I am not persuaded 
that is the case so I will not be awarding these costs. 
I acknowledge that Miss F might have paid out for some minor repairs to the car including 
brake pads. However, from what I can see as she has used the car for several thousand 
miles it is likely she would have had some expense of this kind in any event  so I dont 
propose to direct SFL to pay this back.I acknowledge what has occurred with the car has caused Miss F distress and 
inconvenience. I think that despite the issues with the car SFL has made a reasonable effort 
to assist Miss F with finding out the issues and has paid for expert reports and repairs to be 
carried out. I understand it has also made a compensation payment to her of £250. In the 
circumstances (and in light of my other redress) I am not going to be awarding a significant 
amount of additional compensation here. However, I do note what Miss F has described to 
us about the impact of the situation on her and her particular circumstances around the time 
and ongoing and think that an additional £150 should also be paid to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My redress might not exactly reflect the detriment perceived by either party here  however, 
in my role resolving disputes informally I have come to what I think is overall a globally fair 
and reasonable way to put things right and resolve this dispute so the parties can move 
forward.
 
My provisional decision
I direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay and write off unpaid 
rentals/arrears to date and any associated late payment fees or charges;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss F;
refund Miss Fs deposit/part exchange contribution if applicable
pay a refund of 10% of each monthly rental payment to date; 
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement; 
pay £150 additional compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused; and
remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to 
the agreement. 
I asked the parties for their comments.
Miss F explained that the £250 paid to her by SFL was not general compensation but to pay 
for a courtesy car while the car was being fixed. It also covered only a week when the hire 
was longer.
SFL did not respond to my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in her response to my provisional findings Miss F has specifically referenced the 
£250 paid by SFL and what this represented.
I think it is worth clarifying here that I had anticipated that Miss F had some transport costs 
for periods where the car was in for repairs. SFL had referred to paying Miss F £250 
compensation towards potential taxis or car hire  but it wasnt clear the exact costs incurred 
by Miss F at the time or if she had a hire car to rely on so this figure appeared to be more 
speculative compensation than a specific refund.As a result my proposed redress was more global. In that the £250 represented an additional 
amount to factor in overall how much money Miss F should fairly receive (and keeping in 
mind that these awards are not scientific). 
Miss F has now confirmed her car hire during the major repair and the costs for that. But I 
dont think that changes my overall recommendation here.  It is worth noting that Miss F 
would not fairly get back both her SFL rentals for that time and the full cost of the hire car as 
she would have had to pay for transport in some way during that period in any event. In light 
of the particular circumstances here including Miss Fs prior use of the car and when she 
stopped paying for it, the £250 Miss F got from SFL already and the proposed 10% refund of 
monthly payments (plus interest) made to date toward periods of impaired and intermittent 
use I think my overall redress is fair and reasonable here. And that an additional payment of 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience is still fair (particularly noting that it is 
now evident Miss F did have a car to rely on during the major repairs - albeit one she had 
rented).
In summary, my redress is not a science, but a way to informally resolve disputes on a fair 
and reasonable basis. After considering what Miss F has said and the information she has 
sent in I still think that the redress I am directing SFL to pay is broadly fair and reasonable in 
the specific circumstances. 
All things considered neither party has given me reason to depart from my provisional 
findings (as copied above) which I think are a fair and reasonable way to settle matters.
Putting things right
I direct SFL to put things right as directed below for the reasons specified here (incorporating 
my provisional findings).
My final decision
I direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay and write off unpaid rentals/arrears 
to date and any associated late payment fees or charges;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss F;
refund Miss Fs deposit/part exchange contribution if applicable
pay a refund of 10% of each monthly rental payment to date; 
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement; 
pay £150 additional compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused; and
remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the 
agreement. 
If SFL considers it needs to deduct tax from the interest element of my refund it should 
provide Miss F with a certificate of tax deduction so she can claim a refund from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 Mark Lancod
Ombudsman