DRN-2696253
The complaint
Mrs M and Ms M complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have not replaced goods 
that were damaged in a flood under her contents policy. UKI used agents for providing part 
of their service, for simplicity I will refer to them as UKI also. As most of the complaint 
correspondence was with Mrs M, Im also only going to refer to her throughout this decision.   
What happened
Mrs M had a flood at her property which was caused by underlying issues with the sewerage 
system at her house. The damage to her property was extensive which meant she was 
moved out to alternative accommodation whilst the repairs were carried out.
Mrs M made a claim to UKI on her home contents policy following the flood. Her buildings 
were covered by a different insurer. Mrs M complained as UKI didnt pay out her claim for 
damage caused to her white goods as a result of the flood. Mrs M said when she made the 
claim, UKI had advised her that all her white goods would be replaced as they were not 
sanitised before being taken into storage. However, she said UKI have now said they will 
only replace items that have suffered water damage and they would clean the remaining 
items. Mrs M said that items kept in storage had not been adequately inspected.
Mrs M wanted all her white goods to be replaced on safety grounds as they had not been 
sanitised before they had been taken into storage. She said her goods contained dry rot 
spores as a result of the flood. 
UKI said Mrs M initially raised the claim after she had moved to alternative accommodation. 
She said there was damage to her contents but at that time couldnt provide the details of 
what items had been damaged. The claim was temporarily closed until Mrs M was able to 
provide more details to support her claim. UKI said Mrs Ms building insurer had arranged for 
most of her contents to be put into storage. 
When Mrs M re-opened the claim 18 months later, UKI said they tried to get a list of the 
contents from the buildings insurers loss adjuster, so they could arrange inspection and 
validation where necessary, but they didnt have this. UKI also said they struggled to get 
details of the damaged items from Mrs M.
UKI said after some difficulty it was able to visit the storage location (which had been 
arranged by the buildings insurer) to conduct a visual inspection of Mrs Ms contents and 
agreed to replace some items, which included a fridge-freezer. It was unprepared to replace 
her dishwasher, as this had been disposed of by workman and UKI said it had no idea if it 
was damaged as it wasnt inspected. It also commented on the condition of some of the 
other items
 Every item I have looked at doesnt appear to have any incident related
damage. Some items have aged rust (i.e. inside of microwave door). Also, small areas
of rust on the pram which would appear consistent with being used outside and only 
very small in size. The items I have looked at do not appear to need (to be) cleaned as 
no items appear mouldy or have incident related dirt. Just some general household dust 
on a few items. Also dust from storage blankets etc. This would probably be the same if
cleaned and left for a few days
Our investigator looked at the case in detail and her view was to not uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint as she didnt think the white goods had been water damaged in the flood. Mrs M 
has rejected this, so the case has been referred to me to make a decision.
Since the investigator provided her view, Mrs M has been unable to return to her home as 
there have been ongoing issues with sewage leaking at her property, so her white goods 
remain in storage and they have now been there for circa four years.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 15 February 2021. I said:
When an insurer rejects part of a claim, my role is to see if I think its done this fairly. I have 
looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms contents policy and the core cover section 
describes how her contents were protected in the case of storm or flood and water 
escaping from underground drains or pipes. The nature of the incident at Mrs Ms property 
was due to defective underground sewage pipes, which falls within the remit of her policy. 
Therefore, its reasonable for Mrs M to make a claim for damage caused by the flood to 
items covered by her contents policy.
The policy then sets out how UKI will settle any claim:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would 
have cost to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
make a cash payment
Mrs M specific complaint was that UKI did not pay her claim on some of her white goods. I 
have looked at whether the reason UKI gave for not paying the claim was reasonable.
I have looked at the file and it does seem that it has been difficult for UKI to assess the loss.  
The buildings insurer managed most of the works after the flood and UKI did not have the 
opportunity to visit the site to assess the damage as Mrs M didnt provide the necessary 
details to raise a claim until 18 months after the incident. UKI have had to use the evidence 
that has been available afterwards to determine whether the claim was valid. I think Mrs M 
has personally suffered a great deal due to the circumstances of the flood and this will have 
placed her under an enormous amount of stress. So, I dont think its fair to hold Mrs M to 
account for the delay in raising her claim, she had been relying on the support of her 
buildings insurer.
Most of Mrs Ms white goods were put into storage. On inspection, UKI decided that only the 
fridge freezer needed replacing and UKI decided to reject Mrs Ms claim on the other white 
goods. Mrs M had complained that the items had developed dry rot spores from the flood 
and she thought the items would have deteriorated generally from being held in storage.
Mrs M challenged that a visual inspection of the goods wasnt enough to check for dry rot 
spores. She said a more thorough inspection was required. Our investigator asked UKI 
further questions around this in their professional capacity as experts in dealing with flood 
complaints. UKI said that a visual inspection is all that was required to determine whether an 
item had been damaged by the incident and if dry rot existed. I have also reviewed 
photographs that have been provided of the affected area. These only demonstrate a small 
puddle in the kitchen area and there is no evidence to show water has covered the 
appliances.For the reasons described, I dont think UKI have done anything wrong in dealing with this 
claim. Considering, UKI were only able to investigate this claim 18 months after the incident, 
I think they have used the evidence that is available to assess the claim. I think they have 
assessed the evidence fairly.
Mrs M said that UKI had told her they would replace all her white goods as they hadnt been 
sanitised before being put into storage. I have listened to the calls Mrs M had with UKI and I 
have not been able to find any reference to this. I think if this was said, it could have been 
said by her building insurer, but as there is no evidence to suggest UKI have said this, I dont 
think UKI have done anything wrong here.
However, Mrs M has now been out of her home for around four years and her white goods 
have been held in a storage facility for this time. Mrs M thinks her goods will have 
deteriorated generally in this time and I am inclined to agree with her. Its likely that Mrs Ms 
goods were used for a reasonable amount of time before the flood. So, adding on the four-
year period which they have sat idle in storage, I think it is highly likely they will have 
deteriorated and the useful life Mrs M will get from the goods will be much shortened.
I have checked online with a well-known retailer of new white goods and the longest 
guarantee I could find on their products was five years, most products ranged between one 
and two years. This is only a guide of the minimum length an appliance should work for, but I 
think it is fair to conclude that Mrs Ms products are likely to be towards the end if not at the 
end of their useful life due to the extended period they were held in storage. As the flood was 
the cause of the goods being held in storage, this is covered by the terms of Mrs Ms policy. 
So, I intend to decide that UKI need to settle Mrs Ms claim on her white goods held in 
storage, replacing them with new goods on a like for like basis or providing an equivalent 
cash settlement amount. As Mrs M has been without the use of these goods since the flood 
incident, I intend to ask UKI to pay simple interest at 8% on the equivalent cash settlement 
amount from the date of the incident to the date the claim is settled.
UKI also rejected Mrs Ms claim for her dishwasher. This wasnt sent to storage but was left 
on site and was at some stage disposed of by her builders, which meant UKI were unable to 
check whether it had been damaged in the flood. UKI were unable to inspect the damage 
and the photographs provided do not support that the dishwasher was covered or damaged 
by flood water. However, I think even if the dishwasher wasnt damaged in the flood, it would 
have been stored with the rest of the white goods for four years. So, under either 
circumstance, I think it would be reasonable for UKI to settle the claim on the dishwasher 
under the terms of the policy for flood damage. As Mrs M has been without the use of her 
dishwasher since the flood incident, I intend to ask UKI to pay simple interest at 8% on the 
equivalent cash settlement from the date of the incident to the date the claim is settled.
I dont think UKI have done a lot wrong here, I think the problems have been caused by the 
delays getting her home rectified for the flood damage under her buildings insurance. Mrs M 
has been in alternative accommodation and at her daughters home, so I dont think she 
would have used her white goods in this period. However, I do think UKI should have 
recognised the length of time her white goods had been held in storage. They should have 
intervened and settled her claim earlier. For this reason, I intend to ask UKI to pay £200 for 
the trouble and upset caused by not settling this claim earlier.
Responses to my first provisional decisionMrs M has responded to my provisional decision. She told us that there have been delays 
getting her drainage rectified at her home and she has been unable to move back in. Her 
contents are still in storage.
Mrs M has provided further details of the issues with her property and I can see this has 
been an awful experience for her. She said she was thankful that the service had upheld this 
complaint, but then goes on to ask us to reassess the whole complaint. Mrs M is concerned 
that the remaining goods held in storage may also have deteriorated. She said she had seen 
dry rot spores at her property and as her goods werent sanitised before going into storage, 
she thinks there may have been dry rot spores on them as well. Mrs M wants her remaining 
contents to be replaced.
Mrs M said she was staggered at £200 compensation and a few appliances for the anguish 
we as family had to endure.
UKI has also responded to my provisional decision and said it disagreed with my rationale.
UKI said Mrs Ms building insurer arranged for her goods to be put into storage and the claim 
was not properly opened with them until around 12 months later. It said this took away other 
options that may have been available to it in settling the claim.
 
UKI feel they have been penalised for delays that were outside of its control (due to building 
works and buildings insurance). It said the customer visited the storage location but was 
unable to review the items as they were all wrapped up.
 
UKI said its expert contractor inspected the items in storage two years after it was notified of 
the claim. It said in line with the policy terms, following inspection, it offered a settlement that 
they think was fair and reasonable. Its contractor was able to establish the fridge freezer was 
damaged by water, along with several other items and this was the reason it offered to 
replace those items. 
 
UKI commented on my statement on the minimum life expectancy of an item. It said the 
insurance policy does not cover maintenance, deterioration or wear and tear. The purpose of 
the policy is for one-off events and in this case, it was deprived of the opportunity to validate 
all the items at the time of loss - nevertheless our experts have confirmed that not all the 
white goods were damaged beyond economic repair and some can be cleaned. 
My provisional findings (second time)
I issued a second provisional decision on this on 30 March 2021. I said:
The information provided by both UKI and Mrs M is like what has been provided before and 
was considered when arriving at my provisional decision. I dont intend to change this 
decision and Ill explain briefly why, but I have clarified what I think UKI need to do when 
they return Mrs Ms contents.
I understand UKIs response and I think the points made are sensible. However, I dont think 
it has fully appreciated Mrs Ms circumstances. My role is to make a fair and reasonable 
decision based on all the information I have available to me and I have also had the benefit 
of observing what has happened since the claim was made. I am considering the likely 
condition of the goods after thinking through the full impact of the insured event. UKIs point 
of view that it was unable to validate the damage on site and its expert had inspected the 
goods two years ago are not so relevant to me in drawing my conclusions.
 Because of the insured event, Mrs Ms contents have been held in storage and unavailable 
to her for over four years. As I said in my provisional decision, Mrs M thinks her goods will 
have deteriorated generally in this time and I am inclined to agree with her. Its likely that Mrs 
Ms goods were used for a reasonable amount of time before the flood. So, adding on the 
four-year period which they have sat idle in storage, I think it is highly likely they will have 
deteriorated and the useful life Mrs M will get from the goods will be much shortened. For 
this reason, I still think it is fair and reasonable for UKI to cover this damage, the goods 
would not have been in storage if it were not for the flood. As the flood was the cause of the 
goods being held in storage, this is covered by the terms of Mrs Ms policy.
I dont think its fair to hold Mrs M to account for the delay in raising her claim, she had been 
relying on the support of her buildings insurer. I know UKI feel this should be taken up with 
them. However, Mrs M has a right to make a claim against her contents insurance. If UKI 
think others have contributed to this outcome, it can choose if it wants to pursue the other 
parties that they see as been responsible. I think given the length of time this claim has been 
ongoing, UKI could have done something earlier to intervene. I think it could have 
considered settling the claim on the larger electrical items. 
Mrs M provided further details of more recent problems she had experienced with the 
rectification works at her property. However, this complaint is not about her buildings 
insurance or buildings works, so most of the information provided isnt relevant to her claim 
for her damaged contents. Our investigator has offered some support to Mrs M for her other 
issues and if needs be a complaint can be set up separately against her buildings insurer. 
Given Mrs Ms contents have been held in storage for a long time, she thinks they will have 
deteriorated and developed rot spores from the previous drainage issues at her home. 
However, Mrs M hasnt inspected her belongings in storage. Her daughter did retrieve a 
small number of items, and there is no evidence provided to suggest there was a problem 
with these goods. The remainder of the contents are still in storage. The only inspection 
done was by UKI some time ago, but their professional opinion was that the items could be 
cleaned.
I dont think UKIs offer to clean the items is unreasonable, as this is consistent with their 
terms and conditions. After cleaning the goods, UKI need to check they are in good working 
order and safe to use, using portable appliance testing (PAT). If the goods dont work or are 
not in a fit condition to return to Mrs M, then it should replace the goods in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.  
Mrs M is disappointed with the £200 compensation I have awarded. I understand she has 
had a really bad experience with the issues at her home, but I dont think UKI has caused 
these issues. I think the compensation is fair and proportionate, recognising that UKI could 
have intervened earlier and settled for the likely deterioration in her larger white goods. 
Responses to my (second) provisional decision
Mrs M responded by saying she was grateful for my provisional decision and asked for 
clarification of which white goods my decision covered. She also asked about whether she 
needed to make a claim for her other contents.
Mrs M also clarified some details I provided in my provisional decision. She said, the 
sewage flooding was in April 17, I was moved to temporary accommodation in January 18 
and made contact with home insurance then, not 18 months later as indicated.
UKI responded to say they didnt agree with my provisional decision. I understand it is 
disappointed by my provisional decision and it has made further comments on it, but as these are broadly the same as the comments it made to my first provisional decision, I will 
not document them again. UKI did say that it thought paying 8% interest was unfair, as it 
says Mrs M had not suffered a financial loss and the delays were not in its control.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. I will address the new points that have been made though.
Mrs M asked for clarification of what white goods my decision covered. These items are the 
large electrical appliances that Mrs M has in storage (and would include: fridge freezer, 
washing machine, tumble dryer, microwave) and would also include the dishwasher that I 
referred to in my decision that was disposed of by the workmen.
Mrs M asked whether she needed to make a claim for her other contents. I will refer Mrs M 
to what I said in my decision. I dont think UKIs offer to clean the items is unreasonable, as 
this is consistent with their terms and conditions. After cleaning the goods, UKI need to 
check they are in good working order and safe to use, using portable appliance testing 
(PAT). If the goods dont work or are not in a fit condition to return to Mrs M, then it should 
replace the goods in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
UKI didnt think the 8% interest was fair. I still do. As I said in my decision, I think UKI could 
have intervened earlier and settled Mrs Ms claim. As its normal for a cash settlement offer to 
be made to the policyholder, I think Mrs M would have been without this money and so I 
think its fair for UKI to pay interest.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mrs Ms claim for white goods damaged in the flood (by replacing them with 
new goods on a like for like basis or providing an equivalent cash settlement, plus 
simple interest* at 8% on the equivalent cash settlement from the date of the flood 
incident to the date the claim is settled)
Clean the remaining items in storage (i.e. non-white goods). After cleaning the 
goods, UKI need to check they are in good working order and safe to use, using 
portable appliance testing (PAT). If the goods dont work or are not in a fit condition 
to return to Mrs M, then it should replace the goods in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy
Pay £200 compensation for trouble and upset caused
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires UK Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
UKI must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mrs M asks for one.
 
Pete AverillOmbudsman