DRN-2309296
The complaint
Mr B complains about the amount that hes been charged by Marsh Finance & Commercial 
Limited for damage to a car that he returned when he voluntarily terminated his hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Marsh 
Finance that he signed in January 2017  the car was about four years old, had been 
driven for 45,000 miles and had a price of £8,624;
Mr B voluntarily terminated the agreement and the car was collected from him in July 
2019 by a third party on behalf of Marsh Finance;
the third party inspected the car and produced a vehicle condition report which shows 
that the cars mileage was 64,821 and it identified flaking paint on the bonnet, a 
scratched headlight and a scratched rear bumper  the total cost of the damage was 
estimated to be £569.21;
Marsh Finance charged Mr B £569.21 for the damage but then offered to reduce the 
total charge to £352.91;
Mr B complained to this service and our investigator recommended that his complaint 
should be upheld  she recommended that Marsh Finance should remove all the 
charges, remove any adverse information relating to these charges from his credit file 
and pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused;
Marsh Finance then offered to remove the charges for the damage to the bonnet and 
bumper with Mr B paying £310.21 for the headlight to be replaced  but he didnt 
accept its offer;
the hire purchase agreement said: You must keep the vehicle in a good working 
order and condition at your expense. You are responsible for all loss of, or damage 
to, the vehicle even if caused by events beyond your control (except for loss or 
damage due to fair wear and tear) ;
Marsh Finance has provided photos of the damage identified in the vehicle condition 
report but theres only limited information available about the condition of the car 
when it was supplied to Mr B;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the damage identified in 
the vehicle condition report was caused by Mr B or that it would reasonably be 
considered to me more than fair wear and tear on a car that was more than six years 
old and that had been driven for nearly 65,000 miles; and
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances for Marsh Finance 
to charge Mr B for the damage identified in the vehicle condition report and I agree 
with the investigators recommendations.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Marsh Finance to remove the charges that its 
made for the damage to the car. I find that it should also remove any adverse information 
about those charges that its recorded on Mr Bs credit file.
These events will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr B. I find that it would also 
be fair and reasonable for Marsh Finance to pay £100 to Mr B to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order Marsh Finance & Commercial 
Limited to:
1. Remove the charges that its made for the damage to the car. 
2. Remove any adverse information about those charges that its recorded on 
Mr Bs credit file.
3. Pay £100 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman