DRN-3926651
The complaint
Mr T complains that he has been charged too much interest by Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money (Virgin) when he made a late payment on his credit card in April 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that the amount he was charged for being late in paying his credit card monthly 
bill in April 2022 was higher than it should be. And when he complained about it, it took 
Virgin six months to respond, and this was too long.
Virgin says the interest it charged was calculated according to the approach and rates 
described in the terms and conditions of the credit card. And it says it has apologised and 
paid £50 to Mr T for the slow response he received.
Ive looked at Mr Ts credit card terms and conditions and how it describes the way interest 
is calculated when a late payment occurs.
This is a complicated calculation involving applying daily interest rates to multiple 
transactions. 
It is not part of this services role to audit accounts and check such charges. So, our 
investigator asked Mr T to explain what error he thinks has been made in the calculation. 
However, Mr T has not been able to identify any such error.
I have looked at the number and amounts of transactions Mr T made during the relevant 
month. It is not obvious to me that a calculation error has been made as the interest charge 
is of the order I would expect from the approach and rates described in the terms and 
conditions of the credit card.
So, I am not able to conclude that Virgin has done anything wrong in the calculation.
I do agree with Mr T that Virgin took too long to respond to his complaint, but the amount 
Virgin has paid to him for the distress and inconvenience involved is in line with the amount 
this service would award. 
So, again I dont think Virgin has done anything wrong in this matter. And although I know Mr 
T will be disappointed, Im not able to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman