DRN-2335644
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited (EBC) gave her unsuitable 
advice to transfer a final salary occupational pension (OPS) into a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). 
Mrs F is represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease, all comments and actions will 
be noted as being Mrs Fs.
What happened
In February 2018, Mrs Fs former employer (from which she was made redundant the 
previous year) wrote to her following her request for a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
in connection with a possible transfer out of her OPS. The employer confirmed the CETV 
was £388,775.70.
Mrs F initially met EBC in March 2018, having been introduced to it by a mutual 
acquaintance (who I believe was an ex financial adviser). Over the following couple of 
months there were further discussions between Mrs F and EBC.  EBC produced a retirement 
planning report and met Mrs F in May 2018 to discuss it. 
It recorded that Mrs F:
was 52 years old and in good health;
was separated with four children who were financially dependent on her; 
was a joint owner in the marital home and in an investment property both of which 
were mortgage free; 
had income from the investment property and from maintenance arrangements 
amounting to about £2,100 (net) a month (the rental income was expected to cease 
once a separation agreement was finalised);
hoped to return to work in the future; 
had about £40,000 put aside in cash and savings accounts (the remainder of her 
redundancy which shed been using to supplement her income);
had no loans or credit card balances; and
had an OPS, with a CETV of £388,775.70. She had no other pension provision. 
It noted Mrs Fs main objectives were to:
break all ties with her previous employer and have more control over her pension;
access her pension fund as flexibly as possible without any penalty or restriction 
about the level of income she could access; 
use the tax-free element to provide a tax efficient income stream; and
pass on any residual fund to her children on her death.
It added that:
its starting point had been to assume that Mrs Fs needs would be best served by 
staying in the OPS given the guaranteed income it would give her for life. And 
especially as it included an element of inflation proofing due to the annual increases 
it would be subject to. It noted it wasnt subject to investment risk like a personal 
pension would be.
Mrs F confirmed it was not her intention to match her OPS promised pension or 
secure a fixed income by buying an annuity.
EBC said that the growth rate needed to match Mrs Fs OPS benefits if she were to retire at 
age 65 was 5.77% (based on her taking tax free cash and a reduced pension). It thought 
that was achievable. It had already determined that the growth rate needed to retire at 55 
wasnt achievable. 
EBC recommended that Mrs F transfer her OPS to a SIPP with a provider Ill refer to as S. It 
felt that would better meet her retirement planning objectives. It further recommended that 
her pension funds should be invested in its bespoke EBC portfolio, selecting active fund 
managers over passive fund managers given the intention was to achieve outperformance of 
a market index rather than track it.
It recommended a split portfolio across the following assets:
40% UK Equities 8 funds
20% Global equities 4 funds
35% Targeted Absolute 
Return/Flexible/Mixed investments*
*To reduce the level of volatility and risk and add 
diversification.7 funds
5% property 21 funds
It outlined the fees that would be payable, which were: 
an initial fee of 3% of the transfer value (£11,663.27)
plus a 1% adviser charge (approximately £3,771 a year)
In addition to an estimated overall ongoing charge for the SIPP of 2.21%, which included:
an initial fund management charge 0.86%
platform charge 0.35%
Mrs F followed EBCs advice and transferred her OPS into a SIPP.
EBC found out from S, around April 2019, that Mrs F no longer wanted it to act as her 
financial adviser.
Mrs F complained to EBC in June 2019 and said that the advice shed received to transfer 
out of her OPS was unsuitable. Amongst her reasons for saying so, Mrs F said:
at the time of the advice, many areas of her current and future financial position were 
uncertain, so she felt the assumptions were made about when she might retire 
werent accurate;
shed never held any investments or taken on any investment risk and was 
concerned to see the value of her pension investment (her only source of savings in retirement) fall;
she should have been advised to leave her pension where it was - especially due to 
her vulnerable state and personal circumstances at the time of the advice. She 
added that her future financial position and asset distribution was still to be decided 
following her separation.
EBC didnt agree and made a number of points in response. Those included:
it took two months from signing the transfer request to receiving confirmation that it 
had gone ahead. At no point during that time did Mrs F suggest shed changed her 
mind or was having doubts. Had she done so, EBC could have aborted the transfer; 
the level of analysis and figures it gave Mrs F was consistent with whats expected, to 
provide a full understanding of the possible outcomes and make an informed 
decision. It also felt the level of detail was appropriate given Mrs Fs employment 
background; and
it noted Mrs Fs intention to return to work in the future and her aim of accessing her 
pension without penalty and or restriction about the level of income she might take. 
So, any advice given was with those objectives in mind. Particularly as she said she 
wouldnt be able to retire at 55 under her OPS given the early retirement penalties 
that applied.
Mrs F wasnt happy with EBCs response, so she complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and didnt think EBC had given suitable advice in Mrs Fs 
particular circumstances. In summary he said:
it would have been preferable for Mrs F to defer any significant financial 
decisions such as transferring her pension. And he thought there would need 
to be overwhelming reasons to justify her transferring her OPS at the point 
she did; 
he didnt think a critical yield of 5.77% was achievable. He thought the closest 
possible investment return was 4% a year with around 12 years to go before 
retirement. So, he thought it likely Mrs F would receive a materially lower 
pension from the SIPP than her OPS. And he wasnt persuaded that Mrs F 
had capacity to accept the level of risk that EBC thought she could;  
whilst she had assets of about £40,000 (which might have given her some 
capacity to absorb losses), he thought it likely that amount would reduce until 
Mrs F found further employment. So, in reality he thought that meant she had 
no or very low capacity for loss. And even though the adviser had stated that 
Mrs Fs capacity for investment losses was low, shed still recommended an 
investment strategy at a higher level. 
it wasnt clear how Mrs F could afford to recoup possible investment losses. 
So, at the very least, shed need to invest at a more cautious level, which also 
lowered the potential of future investment returns in any event. And, even at a 
medium risk, it was unlikely her investments would match the benefits she 
could have expected from her OPS. 
EBC should have advised Mrs F to stay in her OPS with the option of 
reviewing things again in future. And, had such advice been given, he didnt 
think Mrs F would have gone ahead with the transfer. To put things right, the investigator thought EBC should, as far as possible, put Mrs F into 
the position shed now be in had it not been for the unsuitable advice. So, he recommended 
that it carry out a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology (as 
amended by the FCA in October 2017). He recommended that the calculation was carried 
out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. On top 
of that, the investigator thought EBC should pay Mrs F £300 compensation for the upset 
caused by the poor advice she was given. 
EBC didnt agree. It felt that not all of the facts of the advice process had been considered. 
Those included: 
Mrs F proactively asked her former employer for a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) for her pension before shed even contacted EBC. She was then introduced 
to EBC through a mutual acquaintance. It disputed these were the actions of a 
vulnerable customer as Mrs F had since suggested. According to EBC, this 
demonstrated she had a clear and set objective.
EBC asked for the matter to be considered afresh. So, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What was EBC required to do?
Apart from the overarching principles for businesses, which include:
Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2  skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers 
interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care; the Code of Business sourcebook (COBS) sets out 
other obligations. In particular, COBS 9.2.1 R required EBC to take reasonable steps to 
make sure any personal recommendations were suitable for Mrs F. That meant it was 
required to find out about Mrs Fs knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type of 
investment) her financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2 R says that businesses should gather enough information to ensure the 
recommendation met the customers objectives; the customer could bear the risks involved; 
and had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks. 
So, its against that backdrop that Ive considered whether EBC acted fairly and reasonably 
in Mrs Fs particular case.
The advice to transfer out of the OPS
Mrs F was a member of a final salary OPS, which provided many valuable benefits and 
guarantees based on her salary whilst in that employment. Those benefits werent based 
on investment returns. Instead, they would have provided a guaranteed income for the 
future. Mrs F had been a member of that scheme for almost 24 years and had amassed a 
pension pot valued at over £388,000. Given the valuable benefits associated with this type 
of pension, the regulator placed additional obligations on financial firms when advising 
about potentially transferring out of a final salary (also referred to as a defined benefits) 
OPS. 
COBS19.1.6G says:When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is also that a transfer wont usually be 
suitable. Id need to be satisfied there were good reasons why a transfer was in Mrs Fs 
best interests. And generally speaking, that will only be the case if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. But the transfer 
will also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances. I 
can see that EBC also started from the point that the transfer probably wouldnt be 
suitable. It also said that Mrs F shouldnt be seduced by the high CETV of her OPS. The 
evidence shows that it also considered whether each of Mrs Fs objectives could be better 
served by staying in her OPS or by transferring to a SIPP. 
However, Im not persuaded that EBC did enough to fully understand Mrs Fs objectives  
and whether they were realistic  or demonstrate overall why transferring out of her OPS 
was in her best interests. So, like our investigator, Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
I dont think EBC did enough to fully understand why Mrs F wanted to invest at the point 
she did. The fact find shows she was 52 years old and in good health. And shed pretty 
much ruled out retiring at age 55, so there didnt seem to be a pressing need for Mrs F to 
alter her pension arrangements at that point. 
She was also introduced to EBC at a time when she was going through some fairly major 
changes in her life. Shed been made redundant less than a year before and was in the 
process of finalising a marital separation. Her contact with EBC seems to have been 
instigated, at least to some extent, by the fact that she wanted to make sure her husband 
didnt have a claim on her pension in the event of her death. But, as I understand it, that 
was something that could be agreed through other channels in any event. Whilst I can see 
why matters such as a marital separation might turn a customers attention towards things 
such as retirement provision, EBC still needed to be satisfied that any advice it gave was 
suitable taking account of all of the relevant factors.  
Mrs F said she was hoping to return to work at some point in the future. And in itself is 
something that may well have changed her retirement needs. But she was also expecting 
to lose one of her other sources of income (from rental property) once the separation was 
finalised. So, until such time as these things were settled, I think it was probably more 
difficult for Mrs F to make important decisions about an OPS that was of significant value in 
her retirement. And in these circumstances, Im inclined to agree with our investigator that 
a more appropriate response would have been for EBC to suggest that she wait before 
taking things further.
To some extent, I think EBC made an assumption that as Mrs F had already asked her 
former employer for a CETV, she was wedded to the notion of transferring out of her OPS. 
And thats what probably led to it forming the opinion that she had a clear and set 
objective. But Im not persuaded that she did. In any event Mrs F approached EBC for 
advice and it was EBCs responsibility to clearly demonstrate how her aims and objectives 
could be best achieved and why, ultimately, it felt it was in her best interests to transfer out 
of her OPS.  If it couldnt do that, EBCs advice should have been that she remain in her 
OPS. Based on everything Ive seen, I think EBCs advice should have been for Mrs F to 
leave her pension where it was.I can see one of Mrs Fs aims was to break ties with her former employer. I accept this may 
well be an attractive prospect to some people once theyve left their former employment. 
But its not clear whether that was a pressing need, or something that could happen in time. 
Whatever the reason, it still needs to be considered in the wider context of the risks of 
transferring valuable and guaranteed benefits compared to an arrangement with more risk 
and may result in a loss of investment. This particular aim may also have been linked to 
Mrs F saying she wanted more flexibility. Flexibility is a reason often cited for wanting to 
transfer a pension. Again, its important that the adviser understands what is meant by that 
and whether it can be achieved through existing arrangements. And whilst its evident that 
EBC did explore the flexibility question to some extent, Im not persuaded it really did 
enough to satisfy itself whether this was a legitimate personal objective for Mrs F. As Ive 
said, she was 52 when she took advice from EBC. And shed pretty much ruled out retiring 
at age 55. As having more flexibility typically applies when pension benefits are being paid 
(and Mrs F wasnt close to that point) I cant see that this was a pressing need for Mrs F.
In any event, I can see that EBC compared the features of an OPS versus a personal 
pension when thinking about flexibility and breaking ties with Mrs Fs former employer. 
And it rightly said that within an OPS, control over investments rested with its trustees. 
Whereas under a personal pension, it said Mrs F could take control of her pension pot, 
whilst also taking on any investment risks. I agree that Mrs F would probably have more 
control and flexibility under a personal pension than had previously been the case. But that 
again needs to be considered in the context of the wider risks and Mrs Fs experience as 
an investor. And I think this is perhaps where EBC overstated the extent of Mrs Fs 
experience and likely control. I understand she worked in the financial sector for many 
years and had indicated she had some awareness of investment markets. But, it seems her 
work didnt involve pensions or investments. So, I dont think her knowledge is likely to 
have been any greater than any other retail investor. In these circumstances I think it was 
EBCs role to not only record Mrs Fs objectives, but to also decide whether they were 
realistic or achievable. And with her low level of investment experience, having an objective 
geared towards having more control doesnt seem to be realistic. It seems to me that shed 
always need support and would have to pay an adviser such as EBC for that. So, Im not 
persuaded that, overall, Mrs F truly needed or wanted the control shed referred to.
Mrs F made it clear that she wanted to be able to take her pension whenever she wanted 
and at the level she decided. And she also said she didnt want to suffer the penalties that 
she felt her OPS imposed if she decided she wanted to retire early. Again, having made the 
appropriate comparisons, EBC appeared to suggest that the personal pension was 
probably the more suitable option here. It said that unlike the OPS (in relation to which a 
reduction factor will be applied to the starting level of pension) with a personal pension, 
you can draw on benefits from age 55This is completely at your own discretion and 
without early retirement penalties although it may depend on the pension fund value being 
at a level where you feel comfortable drawing on the desired level of tax-free cash and / or 
income.
I dont think EBC was wrong to say what it did. However, I do think it should have made its 
comparison clearer to help Mrs F fully understand the position and make an informed 
decision. I say that because the reality is that benefits from any scheme will be lower if the 
customer retires early. Thats because the scheme has less time to grow and the proceeds 
of the investment will also have to last longer in retirement. But OPS schemes have a similar 
issue. And it wouldnt be fair for an OPS scheme to pay the pension at the same level if the 
member asks to retire five years early. So, a reduction is made to ensure that benefits which 
are to be paid for five years longer are of the same overall value. Referring to this as a 
penalty might make the OPS scheme seem inferior or less attractive, when thats unlikely to 
be the case. And in the absence of an explanation such as this, I can see why Mrs F might think a personal pension was a more appealing option. So, I dont think EBC fully fulfilled its 
duty when explaining the position.
A driver in Mrs F thinking about transferring her OPS was the ability to leave a residual 
pension fund to her children on her death. I can understand that. But, EBC needed to 
understand how much of a priority this was especially as Mrs F didnt have any concerns 
about her health and was only age 52 at the time. So, there didnt seem to be a pressing 
need to meet this objective either. And it needed to advise her accordingly - especially if 
leaving a bigger residual fund on death meant relying on a reduced level of retirement 
income in life. And Mrs F had made it clear that she wanted to make sure she had enough 
income in retirement. In at least one of the questionnaires she completed (there appeared to 
be a slight contradiction with information contained elsewhere about what was more 
important), she suggested that it was more of a priority having enough income than leaving a 
residual fund to her family.
Having thought about this carefully, I dont think providing for her family in the event of her 
death should have been at the expense of maintaining a reasonable level of income in her 
retirement. And, as Ive indicated, its not clear that Mrs F had decided this was more of a 
priority.  In these circumstances and given the apparent contradiction, I think EBC should 
have clarified things. Mrs F had saved for her retirement for a number of years. And, as she 
had no other pension provision at the time she took advice, it seems to me that shed more 
likely need the guarantees and indexed income that her OPS would provide. And, in any 
event, I think there were other ways that her family could be provided for. Mrs F had a house 
that she owned outright and some savings. Shed also indicated that in the event she started 
other employment, shed look to join whatever pension schemes were available. So, it 
seems entirely likely there would have been additional provision for her family from those 
sources. I think its also worth saying that whilst EBC talked about the pension pot being 
passed on to her children, that pot is likely to have reduced in value, not only due to the 
investment risks it was subject to, but because Mrs F would have been using it to fund her 
retirement. And given that there were other equally viable means for Mrs F to provide for her 
children in the event of her death, I wasnt persuaded that this objective could be best served 
by transferring the valuable benefits from her OPS. And I think EBC should have done more 
to explain that. Instead, it appears to have simply pointed out that, unlike her OPS (which 
has certain stipulations surrounding dependants benefits), a personal pension had more 
flexibility when it comes to providing for dependants. 
Mrs F said she was looking for investment growth of between about 5-7% over an 
investment horizon of 15 years +. I dont think this is an unusual objective. However, it 
needed to be considered in the context of her attitude to risk. EBC classed Mrs F as a 
balanced investor. Thats typically someone looking for a balance of risk and reward, and 
whilst seeking higher returns than might be obtained from a deposit account, recognises that 
this brings with it a higher level of risk and that the value of their investment may fluctuate in 
the short term. And EBC noted in its suitability report that Mrs F did not mind a reasonable 
degree of risk in the hope that her benefits could be higher in retirement. 
However, I need to bear in mind that tolerance of risk isnt the same as having the capacity 
to accept the level of risk that a customer is willing to take. Mrs F had no other pension 
provision. Whilst she had some savings, she needed those to supplement her income until 
she returned to employment. And until that happened, it seems she had little means of 
replacing any potential losses to her pension. On top of that, EBC had already said that her 
capacity for loss was low. 
An important part of considering the viability of an OPS transfer is careful consideration of 
the level of return needed to match (let alone exceed) the benefits from an OPS. EBC had 
already determined that the critical yield needed if Mrs F wanted to retire at age 55 couldnt be achieved. It was satisfied that in order to match the benefits from her OPS at a retirement 
age of 65, a critical yield of 5.77% was achievable. But the regulator has made it clear that in 
order for a pension transfer to be financially viable, the assets a customers attitude to risk 
allowed them to invest in, shouldnt just mean its a case of achieving the critical yield, it 
should be capable of exceeding it. Thats particularly relevant in Mrs Fs case. Shed made it 
clear that she wasnt looking just to match her OPS benefits. She was looking for investment 
growth. And it seems to me that there would be no point giving up the guarantees of the 
OPS simply to stand still, given the risk that the transfer might underperform.
The advice in this case was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
similar rates were published by this service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
As Ive said, the investment return (critical yield) required to match the OPS at retirement 
was quoted as 5.77% per year. This compares with the relevant discount rate of 4% given it 
was around 12 years to Mrs Fs retirement.  The shortfall is significant. Had Mrs F had a 
higher attitude to risk, its arguable that any shortfalls could have been made up. But she 
was considered a balanced investor, with low capacity for loss. So, realistically, it seems 
unlikely shed have been able to make up any shortfalls. And I think EBC should have made 
that clear.
But, on top of that, the critical yield of 5.77% didnt take account of the ongoing charges. And 
Mrs Fs fund had already instantly reduced by 3% (Over £11,600) before any of the annual 
charges or SIPP charges were applied. This is relevant as it means that the level of growth 
needed just to match the benefits being given up was likely to have been understated.  And 
particularly so when factoring in investment growth. So, even for a balanced investor, I think 
it would have been difficult to achieve the level of growth needed to match Mrs Fs 
investment aims, let alone exceed them, so as to make the transfer more viable than if shed 
stayed in her OPS.
EBC said it felt a personal pension would best serve Mrs Fs specific retirement aims. For 
the reasons Ive outlined, Im not persuaded about that. But, in any event, it wasnt just a 
question of what served the retirement aims Mrs F cited, EBC had to give advice that was in 
Mrs Fs best interests overall. And, based on everything that Ive seen, I dont think 
transferring out of her OPS was in Mrs Fs best interests. So, as Ive outlined, thats the 
advice that I think EBC should have given her.  
Would Mrs F have gone ahead with the transfer anyway?
After careful consideration, I dont think she would. Mrs F wasnt an experienced investor 
and she clearly relied on EBC for advice taking account of her particular circumstances at 
the time. In addition, there was no compelling reason for Mrs F to transfer her pension at the 
point she did. In those circumstances, Im not persuaded shed have gone ahead had it not 
been for EBCs advice. 
I uphold this complaint and Ive set out below what EBC now needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for EBC to put Mrs F as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would have remained in the occupational scheme. EBC must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Fs acceptance of the decision.
EBC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs F within 90 days of the date 
EBC receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes EBC to 
pay Mrs F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000 I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require EBC to pay Mrs F the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000 I additionally require EBC to 
pay Mrs F any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000 I only require EBC to pay Mrs F 
any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
EBC pays Mrs F the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mrs F.
If Mrs F accepts my decision, the money award is binding on EBC. My recommendation is 
not binding on EBC. Further, its unlikely that Mrs F can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mrs F may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision. 
In addition to the above, if the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000 I also 
require EBC to pay Mrs F £300 compensation for the upset its caused. I say that because 
its clear Mrs F has been caused distress at seeing her sole pension provision reduce as a 
result of EBCs recommendation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited should now take the steps 
Ive outlined above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman