DRN-2334847
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) failed to communicate a regulatory 
change in Sept/Oct 2019 which related to the use of his bank card and contactless 
purchases.
What happened
In October 2019 Co-op made some changes to its contactless system so that after a 
customer had spent £130 the customer was required to verify their identity by using Chip 
and Pin. That change was not specifically notified to Co-ops customers.
Some time later, Mr F was doing some grocery shopping and his card was declined when he 
tried to use it contactless. The assistant in the shop didnt ask him to use the Chip and Pin. 
Mr F did not know why his card had been declined and was embarrassed, having to use the 
remaining cash he had on him to complete the purchase. Mr F complained to Co-op but they 
didnt believe they had done anything wrong and said their website had information which 
detailed that customers may be required to use their PIN from time to time for extra security.
Mr F was unhappy with Co-ops final response and so approached this service. Our 
investigator thought that Co-op hadnt done anything wrong because it had made its 
customers aware that they may need to use their PIN from time to time, and that Co-ops 
decision not to communicate their system changes in October 2019 was justified in the 
interest of maintaining security. Mr F didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed 
to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Co-op acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. The 
accepted facts are that Co-op changed their contactless system and didnt tell any of their 
customers. The change to the system required the cardholder to verify their identity by Chip 
and PIN once £130 had been spent on the card. That is not a daily limit rather a cumulative 
limit which might be reached over days or even weeks. The reason for the change was to 
enhance security.
I appreciate Mr F would have suffered a degree of embarrassment when trying to make 
payment for his purchases. That is understandable and it is unfortunate that the merchant 
concerned did not ask him to try Chip and PIN. It is also unfortunate that Mr F did not 
request that Chip and PIN be attempted, since had it been that would have averted the 
problem.
Mr F has consistently said that his complaint is about Co-ops communication. He feels Co-
op should have notified him prior to making the change so that he was ready for it. I can see 
the thrust of his argument since had he been told of this particular change he would have 
been forewarned. So, I do agree it is a question of communication. But in addition, it is also 
linked to the issue of fairness and proportionality. 
Co-op did communicate to Mr F that he may have to use his PIN from time to time. I have 
seen that from Co-ops website. It provides a lot of information on contactless payments, 
under the contactless page under Managing Your Account, part of which explains that a 
customer may be asked to use their PIN occasionally. 
I know Mr F has referred to this as burying a single sentence on the web site, but that said 
the information is and was in fact there to be read. Placing information on the website is a 
method of communication. It is clearly not as effective as sending a letter or email directly to 
each customer, but in some ways it might be viewed as safer since it is there for every 
customer to see, and there is no danger of any customer being overlooked or missed out of 
a mailing run. But as Mr F has inferred, he would have no reason to check the website in 
anticipation of regulatory changes. 
So, Ive also looked at the terms and conditions governing Mr Fs account to see if they can 
assist here. As I have said, the reason for the change in Co-ops system was to enhance 
security for its customers, and that obviously encompasses how its customers use their 
accounts. The terms and conditions at paragraph 1.3 say;
1.3 Well also give you information about how to use your account. This could be in 
the User Guide on our website and in other documents we give you.  
So, Im satisfied that upon opening his account, the terms and conditions specifically drew 
Mr Fs attention to the fact that Co-ops website would contain information about his account 
use. And I recognise that whilst some customers may choose not to check the website, it 
does mean that they may become unaware of important changes. But that is not, in my view, 
something that can be blamed on the Co-op since they forewarned their customers that 
information would be on their website and it is reasonable to expect its customers to check it. 
So, I think the Co-op took a fair and proportional approach to the operation and use of the 
contactless system, following the method indicated in the terms and conditions.
So, although Mr F will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Co-op has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman