DRN-2289935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way esure Insurance Limited has administered their home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Esure sent Mr and Mrs M a renewal quote for their home insurance policy. Mr and Mrs M 
found a cheaper policy insured by esure online. So on 18 March 2020, Mr M got in touch 
with esure to discuss renewal options. Esures call handler explained it couldnt price match 
Mr and Mrs Ms existing policy. But she explained that if Mr and Mrs M set-up a new online 
policy, she could arrange for a one-off refund of the difference between the renewal premium 
and the price of the new policy. Mr M wanted to check the details and said hed get back in 
touch.
Mr M called back on 18 March 2020 to set up the new policy. Unfortunately, Mr M didnt 
mention he and Mrs M had an existing policy. And the call handler didnt check the notes 
and advise Mr M that hed need to lapse the existing policy. So the first policy remained live 
and premiums continued to be taken.
On 22 May 2020, Mr M got in touch with esure to let it know itd been deducting two lots of 
premiums. The call handler cancelled the policy and told Mr M that he and Mrs M would get 
a refund of the premiums thatd been wrongly debited from Mrs Ms account.  Mr and Mrs M 
wanted to complain about the way esure had administered their policy. 
Unfortunately, there was a delay of a few days in processing the refund and in raising a 
complaint. Mr and Mrs M didnt get call backs when they were told they would; they had to 
chase things up and they were unhappy with how esure had handled their complaint. 
Ultimately, esure offered Mr and Mrs M total compensation of £100 and apologised for the 
way itd handled things. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with esures offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt esure should pay £250 compensation, they wanted esure to answer 
questions about why the error had happened and they wanted a letter of apology from its 
CEO.
Our investigator acknowledged esure had made an administrative error when it didnt cancel 
Mr and Mrs Ms existing policy. She felt itd acted reasonably by refunding the premiums itd 
taken in error. And she thought the compensation esure had offered was fair and reasonable 
to reflect the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs M had been caused. So she didnt think esure 
needed to pay anything more.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said the investigator hadnt considered all of their issues, and 
they wanted their complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think esures offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the background to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Id like to reassure 
them that Ive carefully considered everything theyve said and sent us. In making my 
decision though, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Its also important I explain that while I can look at the service Mr and Mrs M have received; 
it isnt my role to tell esure how it should handle complaints. So while I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs M feel strongly about the way esure looked into their complaint, it isnt for me to tell 
esure how it should deliver internal feedback or to change its processes or procedures.
Its common ground that when Mr M called up to set up the new policy, it wouldve been 
reasonable for esures call handler either to lapse Mr Ms existing policy or to advise him to 
do so. Had this happened, then the premiums for the original policy wouldnt have been 
collected after the new policy started. So its clear that esure did make an error which 
caused Mr and Mrs M to lose out.
When Mr and Mrs M got in touch with esure to let it know about its mistake, the call handler 
cancelled the original policy and said Mr and Mrs M would get a refund of the overpaid 
premiums. Unfortunately, the call handler didnt start the complaints process and there was a 
delay in the refund being processed. This happened around three days later than it 
shouldve done.
In cases like these, where a policyholder has two insurance policies and requests for one of 
them to be cancelled, wed generally expect an insurer to refund any premiums thatve been 
collected in error. Im satisfied that esure did take steps to refund Mr and Mrs Ms premiums 
in a reasonable period of time, even if it was received a few days later than they were initially 
told it would be. I can see esure offered to refund any bank charges Mr and Mrs M had 
incurred as a result of its mistake, if it was sent evidence which showed such charges had 
been applied. I think this was an appropriate response and its what Id have expected esure 
to do in these circumstances.
Its clear Mr and Mrs M also didnt get the service they expected after they called esure to 
complain. They didnt get call backs when they expected to; they had to chase things up and 
having listened to a call between Mr M and one of esures complaints handlers; its clear she 
considered the complaint couldve been handled better. I dont doubt this added to Mr and 
Mrs Ms frustration and caused them inconvenience. Theyve also told us that they were left 
short of money and unable to buy groceries, which caused them upset and embarrassment. 
So Im persuaded its appropriate for esure to recognise its mistake and pay compensation.
But having considered everything, I think £100 total compensation is a fair and proportionate 
amount to recognise esures mistake. I think its a reasonable payment to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M suffered. Taken together with the apology esure offered 
them, I think its done enough to compensate Mr and Mrs M for its mistake and for the 
service they received. So Im not telling it to pay anything more.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position, given esures original mistake and 
its handling of their complaint, I think esures offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Esure should now pay Mr and Mrs M total compensation of £100, less any amount its 
already paid towards this, if it hasnt already done so.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that esures offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman