DRN-1300466
The complaint
Miss J complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has removed cover for chiropractor, 
osteopath and physiotherapist treatment for a spinal and neck condition and associated 
symptoms under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss J got in touch with AXA in January 2018 as she had hip, back and neck pain. She had 
an MRI carried out in February 2018. This MRI didnt reveal any abnormalities with her hips, 
but it identified several issues with her back. The consultant referred her for a course of 
physiotherapy for mobilisation and core stability exercises to help with her symptoms.
Miss J started her physiotherapy sessions in March 2018, which AXA authorised. AXA then 
wrote to her in July 2018 saying that as shed received at least 20 sessions of treatment, and 
the treatment was still ongoing, it now considered her condition to be chronic as it thought it 
was continuing indefinitely. So, AXA said it would only cover treatment given by a 
chiropractor, osteopath or physiotherapist for Miss Js spinal, neck and hip condition, and 
associated symptoms, for a further month  so until August 2018. After that, it would be 
excluded.
Miss Js physiotherapist referred her to see a hip specialist due to her hip pain. A more 
detailed MRI of her hip was carried out in September 2018 that identified several issues with 
the hip, including an early degenerative change in both hips. Further examination into the hip 
was carried out in October 2018, which led to an arthroscopic surgery in her left hip in 
December 2018.
Miss J received physiotherapy sessions on her hip following the surgery until January 2019. 
She got in touch with AXA first in December 2018 as it hadnt paid some of her sessions. 
AXA then agreed to cover physiotherapy for her hip, and it removed her hip condition from 
the exclusion it had applied. That meant Miss J could still claim for treatment for her hip, but 
not for her spinal or neck condition. AXA first told Miss J incorrectly that all the conditions 
would be removed  but it confirmed a week later that only the hip would be removed.
Miss J got in touch with AXA again in March 2019 for unpaid physiotherapy sessions. AXA 
looked into everything and gave Miss J its final response in June 2019. AXA acknowledged 
that it told Miss J incorrectly that all the conditions would be removed from her exclusions, 
whereas only the hip was removed. But AXA maintained that its decision to exclude cover 
for Miss Js spinal and neck condition was correct. However, AXA agreed to cover all the 
physiotherapy sessions up until the date of its letter. It also asked Miss J to make sure that 
any further sessions for the hip were marked as such to avoid any confusion.
Miss J doesnt think AXA has acted fairly in removing cover for her spinal and neck 
condition. She says the original diagnosis in February 2018 was incorrect, as the issue was 
her hip all along. She says the hip surgery resolved the issue, and she doesnt feel pain 
anymore. So, had the hip issue been diagnosed early on, she wouldnt have needed 
physiotherapy on her back. She doesnt think AXA has acted fairly because she doesnt 
think she has a chronic condition in her spine or neck. One of our investigators looked into Miss Js complaint. He thought the medical evidence 
showed that Miss J had problems with her back that shed received extensive treatment for. 
And he said that the report about Miss Js hip didnt contradict the earlier findings about her 
back. Overall, he thought AXA had acted in line with its terms and conditions. So, he thought 
it was fair for AXA to apply the exclusion for spinal and neck conditions on Miss Js policy, as 
he agreed these conditions were chronic. 
Miss J didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Js policy doesnt provide cover for chronic conditions. Under the terms of the policy, a 
chronic condition is a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following 
characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups or tests.
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms.
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specifically trained to cope with it.
It continues indefinitely.
It has no known cure.
It comes back or is likely to come back.
Ive looked at the MRI results by a medical professional from February 2018, as well as the 
MRI results by another medical professional from September 2018. Ive also looked at the 
two reports by Miss Js physiotherapist from November and December 2018.
Both the physiotherapist report from December 2018 and the MRI report from 
September 2018 refer to Miss J having had an accident in 2009. And this resulted, amongst 
other things, in disc prolapses in the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spine. Both reports 
suggest Miss J made a good recovery from this, including getting her posture straight again.
The MRI report from February 2018 identified that Miss J had multi-level degenerate disc 
protrusions in cervical and dorsal lumbar spine, with early facet joint arthrosis. The report 
also described disc bulges, kyphosis and an annular tear. The consultant recommended a 
course of physiotherapy for mobilisation and core stability exercises.
The physiotherapists report from November 2018 outlines that they treated Miss J from 
June to September 2018, and she presented with neck and central lower back pain. The 
treatment included manual therapy techniques to Miss Js neck and lower back, as well as 
her thoracic region. The physiotherapist said there had been good improvements during this 
period. The report also outlined that Miss J complained about discomfort in her left hip in 
August 2018. And after an examination, they referred her to see a hip specialist.
Ive listened to the calls Miss J had with AXA. She says that she was told following the first 
MRI in February 2018 that the problem causing her symptoms was her back, and not her 
hips. So, she didnt have a reason to think the problem was her hips. 
But Miss J says that the physiotherapy treatment on her back didnt help her symptoms. And 
the second MRI in September 2018 showed that the issue was, in fact, her hips, rather than 
her back. Miss J says she was told the pain in her back was referred pain from her hip. She says that following the surgery on her hip, shes now pain free. So, she doesnt think the 
issue was ever her back, rather, this was a misdiagnosis.
Firstly, its clear that Miss J had problems in her hip. And I accept that this couldve caused 
symptoms in her back; Miss J has explained that when someone has issues in their hip this 
can impact the way they walk, and this in turn can cause symptoms in the back. But this 
doesnt mean that Miss J doesnt also have problems in her back.
The evidence Ive seen shows that Miss J had problems in her back already in 2009 as a 
result of an accident. I dont think the evidence shows with clarity that she had symptoms of 
those problems over the years. But I think the MRI in February 2018 showed that those 
problems were still present, as well as further problems in her back. 
The medical professional didnt make a recommendation to treat the problems, rather, the 
plan was to treat the symptoms. And the physiotherapists report in November 2018 says 
that there were good improvements (following the treatment on Miss Js back and neck).
Based on the reports Ive seen, it seems Miss J does have problems in her back that 
continue indefinitely. And given that the physiotherapy on her back and neck improved the 
symptoms she had in 2018, this doesnt support Miss Js argument that her back pain was a 
misdiagnosis. The physiotherapists report in December 2018 also says they made the 
referral to the hip specialist as they questioned if there was any hip joint pathology going on 
as well. 
Miss Js back problems were identified in an MRI in February 2018. She then received 
around 40 physiotherapy sessions on her back and neck. And the professional report says 
the treatment resulted in good improvements. Whilst I appreciate Miss Js symptoms of back 
and neck pain have since resolved, that doesnt mean the underlying conditions have gone 
away. 
So, I think AXA acted in line with its terms and conditions by applying an exclusion on 
Miss Js policy for a spinal and neck condition and associated symptoms, as I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to conclude that Miss Js back and neck problems fell under the chronic 
condition exclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman