DRN-2219748
The complaint
Miss F and Mr W complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) gave them 
incorrect information about how much it would lend when they applied for a mortgage. They 
ask for compensation.
What happened
Miss F and Mr W wanted to buy a property. In February 2020 they contacted First Direct 
about applying for a mortgage. They received a decision in principle for the amount they 
wanted to borrow with a 10% deposit. When they made a mortgage application the following 
week, First Direct told them they needed a 20% deposit. This was because Mr W had an 
existing mortgage with his ex-partner. Miss F and Mr W say they told First Direct this before 
it issued the decision in principle. 
First Direct agreed it made a mistake. It paid £200 compensation and offered to compensate 
Miss F and Mr W for any legal costs incurred if they couldnt go ahead.
Miss F and Mr W were able to go ahead, by borrowing money for the increased deposit from 
family members. They say £200 compensation isnt enough.
Our investigator said while First Direct had made an error the compensation it paid was fair.
Miss F and Mr W didnt agree. They said they answered all the questions they were asked 
honestly, including that Mr W had an existing mortgage. Mr W asked for an appropriate level 
of compensation to cover the fact that about £40,000 extra was needed towards their 
deposit, and that the £200 didnt even cover their legal costs at the time. He says First Direct 
should have paid their legal costs in addition to the £200 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct accepts that it made an error. It should have told Miss F and Mr W at the outset 
that theyd need a 20% deposit. It paid £200 and offered to compensate them for any legal 
costs theyd incurred if they couldnt go ahead with the application. Miss F and Mr W say 
£200 compensation isnt enough. 
Mr W had an existing mortgage and was on the title deeds of a property with his ex-partner. 
Because of this, if Miss F and Mr W wanted a mortgage with First Direct they had to have a 
20% deposit. 
First Direct initially gave Miss F and Mr W incorrect information, suggesting they could go 
ahead with a 10% deposit. 
It must have been disappointing and worrying for Miss F and Mr W to then find out they 
needed to raise more money for the deposit. But if First Direct had told them this at the 
outset theyd still have needed to raise the additional money, or apply elsewhere. 
I havent seen anything to suggest Miss F and Mr W would have found it easier to raise the 
additional money or that theyd have gone to another lender if theyd been given correct 
information at the outset. Although they would have had a little longer to do so. 
First Direct offered to compensate Miss F and Mr W for the legal costs theyd incurred if they 
couldnt go ahead with the application. However, Miss F and Mr W did go ahead with the 
application. As Miss F and Mr Ws legal costs werent lost or wasted as a result of First 
Directs error, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require First Direct to compensate them 
for their legal costs. 
I can see that matters might have turned out differently. For instance, if Miss F and Mr W 
hadnt been able to borrow the extra money from family. But, fortunately, that wasnt the 
case.
I cant see that First Directs error  not giving Miss F and Mr W correct information at the 
outset  caused them any financial loss. They would have had to find a 20% deposit and pay 
legal costs if theyd been given the right information at the outset. However, theyd have had 
about a week longer to do so if theyd been given the right information at the outset. 
Mr W says family members sold premium bonds to raise the money to lend to them, and so 
theyve suffered loss. I cant usually award compensation to third parties. And, as Ive said, 
Miss F and Mr W would have still needed to find the extra money for the deposit even if 
theyd been told this a week sooner.
I do appreciate that the error caused upset to Miss F and Mr W and I think its right that First 
Direct pays compensation. Overall, I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the £200 
compensation paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman