DRN-4267546
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In 2019, Mr Ss HSBC account received a series of credits totalling around £5,000, which 
were then quickly forwarded on via his mobile app or withdrawn in cash using his card and 
PIN. HSBC later received an official report that these were the proceeds of fraud.
HSBC repeatedly called Mr S to try to talk to him about this, and they sent letters asking him 
to get in touch. But Mr S did not talk to HSBC. So they closed his account and registered a 
marker against him at CIFAS.
In 2023, Mr S complained. He now says hed lost his phone, which was unlocked and had all 
his security details written in the notes section. It also had his card in the case. He said he 
never knew about the fraudulent transactions.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, HSBC were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr S had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think HSBC did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill 
explain why.
HSBC received an official report that the money Mr Ss account received was the proceeds 
of fraud. Its a common tactic for fraudsters to recruit young students, like Mr S was at the 
time, and convince them to hand over access to their account, often in exchange for a cut of 
the proceeds. This is often called being a money mule. I need to keep this in mind.
Mr S has shown that when the cash withdrawals took place, he was in class in a different 
city. So Im satisfied Mr S wasnt present at those cash withdrawals himself. But as I noted 
above, its common in a money mule situation to give someone else access to the account. 
So Mr Ss class attendance does not rule out the possibility that he was acting as a money 
mule or that he was otherwise involved in the fraud.
Mr Ss card was used to make those cash withdrawals. He says he lost his card before the 
fraud. But he didnt report that to HSBC until four years later. And he knew he was supposed 
to report lost cards, as hed reported his previous card as lost a month before. For clarity, the 
card he reported as lost a month before was not used  it was blocked and replaced when 
he reported it. It was Mr Ss active, up-to-date card which was needed for the withdrawals.
Around £190 of the fraudulent funds was paid to Mr Ss own account with another bank. So 
Mr S directly benefitted from the fraud. And as far as I can see, Mr S did not query or return 
this credit. If Mr S was an unwitting victim of theft, its not likely or plausible that the thief 
would donate some of the proceeds of crime to him. But this activity is consistent with Mr S 
either being directly involved in the fraud or being recruited as a money mule.
While Mr S now says he lost the phone he used to access his account, I can see that he still 
had access. In the days after the fraud, he continued to receive regular credits from his 
parent and pay them onto his account with his other bank as usual. Further, when Mr S was 
accessing his online banking to make these payments, he would have seen the fraudulent 
activity. But he didnt tell HSBC anything was wrong at the time. It is very unlikely that Mr S 
would not report the disputed payments if they were made without his consent  there was 
thousands of pounds worth of activity on his account.
Similarly, I can see that after receiving the fraud reports, HSBC repeatedly called and wrote 
to Mr S asking him to get in touch about his accounts activity. According to the records, they 
even got through to him once, but he hung up on them. It would not make sense for Mr S to 
choose not to speak to his bank if the fraudulent activity was done without his consent. At 
that point, his account was blocked, hed been stopped from receiving further credits from 
his parent or doing his banking, he was getting urgent letters and calls from his bank, hed 
supposedly lost his card and phone along with all his security details, and he wouldve seen 
the fraudulent activity when he was paying money to his other account. So Mr S wouldve 
had a huge cause for concern, and wouldve been highly motivated to speak to HSBC and 
find out what was going on. Its simply not plausible that hed avoid them. But it would make 
sense for him to avoid discussing the matter if he knew he was taking part in illicit activity.
While the fraud was taking place, someone phoned HSBC twice to discuss the transfers they 
were making out of Mr Ss account. This person was able to pass security and be identified 
as Mr S. I do appreciate that Mr Ss PIN and passwords and so on were on his phone, but 
the person calling wouldve also needed to know personal information about Mr S which he 
wouldnt have stored on his phone. In any case, Ive listened to recordings of the calls with 
HSBC and of Mr S speaking to our service, and the voices match up  it sounds like the 
same person. I find its most likely that it was Mr S who spoke with HSBC  which would 
mean that Mr S was knowingly involved with the fraud. As noted above, this is only one of 
multiple pieces of evidence which support Mr S being knowingly involved.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr S gave 
someone permission to use his account or that he was otherwise knowingly involved in the 
fraud.In summary, Mr S received and benefitted from the proceeds of fraud. He declined to speak 
with HSBC about it when he wouldve had every reason to talk to them if he was an unwitting 
participant. His testimony has been implausible  he says he lost his card and the phone he 
used for online banking, but he didnt report the card or phone as lost and he was still 
making his usual online banking payments afterwards. Mr S wouldve been aware of the 
fraudulent activity, but he didnt report it. And it appears that Mr S called HSBC to get help 
with moving on the fraudulent funds. As far as I can see, the evidence strongly supports that 
Mr S was knowingly involved in the fraud, whether directly or as a money mule.
So it seems fair that HSBC registered the appropriate marker at CIFAS. It follows that its 
also fair they closed Mr Ss accounts, which they were allowed to do under the terms. This is 
a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr S to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman