DRN-4395942
The complaint
Ms O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not intervene in legal proceedings she is involved 
in.
What happened
Ms O has a mortgage with Lloyds. A court order was issued in respect of her divorce 
proceedings in another country. The court order said that Ms O had beneficial ownership of 
the mortgage property. She considers that her ownership of the property will cease upon her 
death and she is being defrauded by her ex-husbands solicitors.
Ms O wants Lloyds to intervene in the legal proceedings. She said the implication of the 
court order is that she no longer has legal title to the mortgage property and therefore she 
cant have the Lloyds mortgage.
I issued a provisional decision. I explained that I considered the complaint was in jurisdiction 
and that there was no reason for me to find that I should dismiss the complaint without 
considering its merits. My provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
Im not sure that Ms Os interpretation of the court order is correct. She should seek legal
advice in the country where the court order was issued if she is concerned about how it will
affect her. But it isnt for me to get involved in that.
Lloyds has said that it will not get involved in Ms Os divorce and that it is not able to change
any details held by the Land Registry in respect of the property. It said the property was
currently in Ms Os name, but if the ownership was changed, it could not prevent this. Lloyds
has seen the court order and it considers that there is nothing that affects its security against
the property.
I would not expect a mortgage lender to get involved in its customers divorce proceedings
and it is for Lloyds to decide if its security is at risk or not. Based on the available evidence, I
consider the position it has taken is fair and reasonable.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Ms O did not. She reiterated her position that 
following the divorce neither she nor her ex-husband have legal title to the property. She 
asked for Lloyds or me to give her advice on the divorce order and how that affects the 
ownership of the mortgaged property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms O has said. But I cant see any reason to change the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision. My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the individual circumstances of the complaint that Ms O has brought against Lloyds. It is 
not my role to give Ms O any advice about the court order or the ownership of the property. I 
am only considering any acts or omissions by Lloyds in its dealings with Ms O in respect of 
this matter.
I was sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms O has experienced in obtaining legal advice 
abroad. But Lloyds is not required to get involved in Ms Os divorce proceedings  either in 
the UK or abroad. Its stance is that the property is in Ms Os name and there is nothing in the 
court order that affects its security. So it is not proposing to take any action. Looking at the 
evidence we have, I consider that is a reasonable position for Lloyds to take. I dont consider 
it needs to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman