DRN-3173735
The complaint
Mr A complains that the advice ICF Financial Services Limited (ICF) gave him to 
transfer his pension from a defined benefit occupational pension scheme into a self- 
invested personal pension (SIPP) was unsuitable. Further, he complains that he 
wasnt given information about the cost of the SIPP, at the time of advice.
Mr A says he has lost out as he would not have transferred if given suitable 
advice and clearer information.
What happened
In 2016, Mr A contacted ICF for pensions advice. At the time of advice, Mr A told ICF 
he was concerned about how long he would be able to carry on working, if his health 
deteriorated. Mr A had a longstanding medical condition. In 2015, he was placed on 
the transplant register to receive a transplant. Given this, and the new pensions 
freedoms legislation, which in some cases allowed customers to access their pension 
pots from age 55, Mr A was considering his pension options.
At the time of advice, Mr As circumstances were as follows:
He was aged 55 and in ill health.
He was married and had two children who were financially dependent on him.
He was self-employed.
He was a deferred member of a defined benefit pension scheme (DB). He had 14 
years worth of service in this scheme. It had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of around £181,190.
He also had a defined contribution scheme, worth around £41,200.
ICFs adviser noted Mr As objectives as being, in summary, to:
Access his pension to supplement his familys income should he 
become unable to work due to ill health. 
Take variable amounts of money from his pension depending on his 
future financial circumstances, which were reliant upon his health.
Take his money in the most tax efficient way possible.
Ensure his wife and children could benefit from his unused pension pot 
should he pre-decease them.
To simplify his financial arrangements for ease of administration.
ICF recommended Mr A transfer from the DB scheme into a SIPP with Zurich. ICF 
gave its reasons for making this recommendation as:
Mr A would be able to take a variable income or lump sum payments 
to suit his financial needs at the time.
He could amend the amounts taken from the plan to ensure he 
incurred the minimum amount of tax.
Hed be able to nominate his wife and other beneficiaries to receive any 
funds on his death. Theyd be able to access this money either as 
income or a lump sum.
Further pensions could be consolidated into this one 
arrangement for ease of administration.
Mr A would have access to a wide range of funds.
Mr A later complained to ICF about the advice he received. ICF didnt uphold his 
complaint and so Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Mr As complaint and upheld it, finding that whilst the recommendation 
to transfer and the investments recommended were suitable, ICFs 
recommendation to transfer into a SIPP was unsuitable. This was because of the 
higher costs when compared to a stakeholder plan.
Mr A, though his representative, didnt agree with our investigators view saying, 
in summary:
The first time he saw the Transfer Analysis Summary Report (TVAS) 
was when it was shown to him by his representative dealing with this 
complaint. He did not see it at the time of advice.
His DB scheme was his only pension of any significance, so before it 
was moved he needed to have a full understanding of the guaranteed 
benefits, what he was giving up and the investment growth needed to 
match those guaranteed benefits.
Given his attitude to risk (ATR), the investment growth required of 6.2% 
was unwarranted.
His health problems were an issue, but not if he was going to be worse 
off in retirement.
ICF also didnt agree with our investigators view. It made the following comments, 
in summary, in response:
It was pleased with the finding that the transfer recommendation was 
suitable given Mr As financial objectives and health problems.
It does not agree that the charges were too high. The charges with 
Zurich were 1.14% and the customer wouldve also had to pay a 0.75% 
adviser charge, taken from the plan. (Total charges 1.89% before tax). 
The stakeholder plan wouldve been 1%, but the customer would have 
also had to pay an ongoing advice charge of 0.75%. So, the stakeholder 
plan wouldve cost 1.75%, but the adviser charge would have been post 
tax, meaning for a basic rate tax payer it was more (1.94%). Therefore, 
the SIPP was a lower cost option.
Other factors also needed to be considered in any event, here the 
increased range of opportunities to access the plan. A marginal 
variation in cost did not necessarily mean that a higher cost plan was automatically unsuitable.
Mr As intention was to go into drawdown. Stakeholder products do not 
allow this. It wouldve been necessary to go through another advice 
process and make charges to switch into a drawdown plan if Mr A had 
transferred into a stakeholder plan. The SIPP plan recommended could 
provide drawdown, so there would have been no need for a change of 
provider.
Using the methodology set out in the investigators view, ICF had 
carried out a loss calculation and Mr A had not suffered any loss. 
Therefore, the complaint should be dismissed on the basis there is no 
financial loss.
Mr A couldve switched later into a stakeholder plan, if he wished to do 
so, if he thought the advice was unsuitable, but ICF believed he had 
not done  so.
Mr As fund grew by over 27% in four years, which is over the 
6.2% per annum to match benefits.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint in November 2021, saying that I was 
minded to uphold it, but that I proposed to make a different award for redress from that 
proposed by our investigator. I said I proposed to make an award of £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr A had been caused to his retirement planning. Mr A responded 
through his adviser. He said:
He hadnt accessed his pension, so he paid for a service he didnt need. The 
recommendation to give up a valuable DB pension could have been deferred.
He didnt need an expensive SIPP, when a lower cost stakeholder plan was 
available. If he had been given comparable illustrations, comparing the SIPP and 
stakeholder, he would have been better informed to make a decision. The charges 
were much higher and the investments recommended in the SIPPcould have been 
replicated in the stakeholder plan. 
Stakeholder plans dont charge exit fees. The initial transfer into a stakeholder plan 
would have saved Mr A the £7231 adviser fee, plus £1800 per year in additional fees. 
He could have transferred to the SIPP at a later date, without exit fees. Mr A 
therefore thinks a fair outcome would be for ICF to repay these additional 
unwarranted charges, as well as the £250.
ICF didnt respond.
Mr As complaint comes back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As further representations do not change my view. Ill set out below my reasons for 
upholding this complaint and making an award of £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr A has been caused to his retirement planning.
Suitability of the advice regarding the transfer
Guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) states that when considering 
whether to transfer out of a DB scheme, the starting point is to assume the transfer is 
unsuitable. Further, that an adviser should only recommend the transfer, if there is clear evidence it would be within the clients best interests.
Mr As circumstances at the time
Mr A was aged 55 and had 14 years service with his previous employer at the time 
of advice. His transfer value was around £181,190. Mr As DB benefits were 
guaranteed and made up a large part of his retirement provision. He also had a 
defined contribution scheme, worth around £41,200. His DC scheme benefits were 
already dependent on investment returns.
Mr A had a medium ATR. His wife was working but it was recorded that her income 
would not have covered their familys expenses. Im told she could not access her 
pension as she was younger than Mr A. Looking at Mr As other assets and his 
ongoing health condition, I think he had a limited capacity for loss and a clear need 
to supplement his income if he couldnt work.
Given that Mr A would be giving up guaranteed benefits, in return for benefits 
dependent on investment returns, as with his DC scheme, there needed to be 
clear reason(s) why a recommendation to transfer was in Mr As best interests.
Investment Return
At the time of advice in 2016, the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 
discount rates on its website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about 
a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses werent required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they did provide a 
useful indication of the growth rates considered reasonably achievable. At the time 
of advice, the relevant discount rate was 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
In the TAVS prepared at the time of advice, it stated that just to match the level of 
benefits Mr A was entitled to in his DB scheme at 65, required an investment 
growth rate of 6.2% each year.
Mr A said he was not sent a copy of the TAVS at the time of advice. I dont know if 
he was. However, I can see that the TAVS is referred to in the suitability report. Mr 
A hasnt disputed that he was sent the suitability report at the time of advice. So, if 
he didnt receive the TAVS, it wouldve been open to him to follow this up at the 
time, seeing the reference to it in the suitability report.
Ive also thought about whether it wouldve made an obvious difference to Mr As 
decision if he hadnt seen the TAVS report. I think that unlikely. I say that because he 
was trying to balance a wider set of circumstances that presented at the time. I cant see 
that his primary focus was on ensuring that his benefits could be matched in the new 
scheme, if he transferred. Ill explain why.
Given Mr As ATR to risk, it was questionable whether he would be able to match the 
benefits in the DB scheme or exceed them. So, by transferring Mr A was giving up 
guaranteed benefits and his benefits may be lower. Ive gone on to consider the wider set 
of circumstances Mr A was balancing when considering whether the recommendation to 
transfer was suitable.
Ill healthAt the time of advice, Mr A was clearly concerned about his ability to carry on 
working and about providing for his family in the event he couldnt. Mr As health 
problems were longstanding in nature, but seemed to have reached a critical point - 
he was on the transplant register. He told ICF his life expectancy would likely be 
affected by his condition.
Mr A went on to receive a successful transplant in December 2016 and was able to 
return to work afterwards. However, that couldnt have been known at the time of 
advice. He received the transplant after he opted to transfer. It seems clear to me that 
at the time of advice, he was looking for more flexibility to suit his financial needs as 
they may develop.
ICF said the transfer meant that Mr A could increase the benefits for his family on his 
death and meant he could receive an income as and when he needed, from age 55. 
Like our investigator, I think given Mr As uncertain position at the time, and the 
flexibility he was seeking as a way of addressing that uncertainty, the advice he 
received to transfer, in his particular circumstances, was not unsuitable. In my view, 
ICF clearly set out the reasons for the advice and what he was giving up in return for 
the flexibility. Looking at Mr As overall objectives, whilst financially it was unlikely his 
benefits would be matched post transfer, this had to be weighed against his and his 
familys other needs. My view is that, taking into account those other needs, ICFs 
advice to transfer was not unsuitable.
Further, I think Mr A was provided with sufficient, clear, fair and not misleading 
information by ICF to assess what he was giving up financially and to make an 
informed choice about transferring.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr A said he hadnt needed to use the 
flexibility afforded in the SIPP. But of course, that wouldnt have been known at the 
time. I think Mr As key driver at the time was to safeguard his family (and provide 
another source of income) if he wasnt able to work due to his ill health.
Mr A also said in response to my provisional decision, that had he been provided with 
clearer information, comparing the stakeholder and SIPP schemes, he wouldve 
opted for the lower cost stakeholder plan at the time. I think that unlikely. The 
stakeholder plan didnt offer a drawdown facility  so it wouldve made little sense to 
transfer out of his DB scheme, with its guaranteed benefits, into another plan (one 
subject to investment returns) that didnt offer the important feature Mr A was after  
the flexibility of drawdown. Had the drawdown facility not been so important to Mr A, I 
think he would have just remained in the DB scheme and not transferred at all.
Recommended investments
Ive gone on to consider the advice Mr A was given about what to invest in, post 
transfer. Mr A accepts he was a moderate risk investor. ICF assessed his ATR as 
being medium. It recommended that 70% of his fund was invested in a Zurich 
balanced fund and the remaining 30% was held in a Zurich cash account, which was a 
cautious fund. ICF stated the reason it recommended holding 30% in cash, was 
because Mr A said it was important to him he could access funds quickly, should he 
need to supplement his income.
Given Mr As ATR and his stated objectives at the time, it seems to me that 
ICFs investment recommendations were suitable.Charges
Mr A complains that he wasnt given enough information about the ongoing 
charges and how these may impact on investment growth. He states that had he 
been given clearer information, he wouldnt have transferred.
Information about the amount of the charges
Ive carefully considered the information that Mr A was given at the time about 
the amount of the charges to see if he was clearly and fairly told about them. I 
think he was. Information about the charges was set out in:
The Client Agreement, signed on 12 August 2016. This set out the 
initial advice, planning and implementation charges.
The Suitability Report showed the projected fund values of the SIPP, 
including the reduction in yield which the report explained showed the 
effect that all the charges had on the growth of the underlying 
investment fund(s) and was a way of comparing costs.
The Declaration Mr A signed on 17 February 2017. This requested that 
Zurich deduct from his plan the initial advice charges and it highlighted 
the ongoing adviser remuneration charge of 0.75%:
A charges summary was also given. This confirmed the entry and 
ongoing charges for the advice, the SIPP plan and platform.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr A was given clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the amount of the charges payable if he opted to 
transfer.
SIPP charges
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint, because she concluded that ICF made an 
unsuitable recommendation to transfer into a SIPP with higher charges, as a stakeholder 
plan wouldve been a lower cost option; the charges being capped. She concluded that 
ICFs reasons for not recommending a stakeholder plan were not sound. And that as ICF 
hadnt recommended a stakeholder (a lower cost option), it should have provided clear 
reasons why it wasnt appropriate.
Looking at the suitability report, ICFs reasons for not recommending a stakeholder 
plan were because:
It is not possible to access the recommended investment strategy
The investment opportunities available are more restrictive 
than the recommended pension plan.
I agree with our investigator, I dont think the reasons ICF gave for not recommending 
a stakeholder plan were adequately reasoned. I say this because I think it wouldve 
been possible to match the investment strategy recommended of 70% in a balanced 
fund, and 30% in cash, in a stakeholder plan. So, on ICFs reasoning, I dont consider 
this was a justifiable reason to recommend the SIPP over the stakeholder plan.
The second reason given by ICL for not recommending a stakeholder plan was 
because the investment opportunities in a stakeholder plan were more restrictive. But, again, I cant see that Mr A had a clear and obvious need to access a wider 
range of investment opportunities at that time, or later. Like our investigator, I 
consider that the investment opportunities offered in a stakeholder plan would have 
met Mr As objectives, particularly when looking at the investment recommendations 
chosen, the size of his fund and his capacity for loss.
Has Mr A lost out because of what ICF did wrong?
Having reached the conclusion that ICF didnt provide Mr A with clear information 
about why a stakeholder wasnt right for him, I have gone on to consider whether I 
think Mr A has lost out as a result of what ICF did wrong.
Had Mr A been given clearer advice and information by ICF, I think he wouldve 
still opted to transfer into a SIPP, rather than a stakeholder plan, Ill explain why.
Mr A was looking for flexibility and to be able to quickly supplement his income to 
meet family needs, if he wasnt able to work. He was self-employed, and I have not 
been told that he had any insurances in place that wouldve supplemented his 
income. So, I think it was important to him to have the option to go into drawdown 
quickly, should the need arise. If he transferred into the SIPP, he was able to move 
into taking drawdown payments as and when he needed to.
The Suitability Report, amongst others, gave these reasons for why a SIPP had 
been selected:
The pension offers a seamless transition to drawdown pension, which 
could prove advantageous when taking benefits in the future
They offer all of the pension income and lump sum access options 
available under the pension freedom legislation which will avoid the 
need to transfer in the future.
So, whilst the Suitability Report was ill reasoned about why the stakeholder plan 
wasnt right, it did, in my view, provide relevant information about why a SIPP was 
right.
Had Mr A transferred into a stakeholder plan, rather than a SIPP, he would not 
have been able to drawdown income payments from that plan, whereas the SIPP 
afforded him that flexibility. Therefore, I consider that transferring into a SIPP was a 
suitable recommendation given his stated objectives.
Im not satisfied that Mr A has lost out financially as a result of being given 
inadequate information about why a stakeholder plan was not right. Mr A likely 
wouldve had to transfer again, out of the stakeholder, if he wanted to make 
withdrawals to supplement his income. Its possible that Mr A may have had to pay 
additional advice charges to transfer out of the stakeholder into a drawdown plan and 
he would have been worse off as a result. Mr As adviser said in the response to my 
provisional decision that Mr A wouldnt have been charged a fee to transfer out of the 
stakeholder plan. But I think its still possible he wouldve had to pay a further fee, if 
he wanted advice regarding the selection of a replacment pensions plan offering 
drawdown. And there would have likely been some delay whilst the plan was being 
transferred from the stakeholder plan to the replacement plan and I think Mr A 
wanted to be able to access his funds quickly. At the time of advice, it wasnt known 
whether Mr A would have to go into drawdown or not, this was dependent on his 
health situation and ability to work.Ive not gone on to consider the relative costs of the two options as I dont think that a 
stakeholder plan wouldve been right for Mr A, given his stated objectives at the time 
of advice of wanting the flexibility of going into drawdown. The stakeholder plan didnt 
offer that..
Putting things right
Distress and inconvenience
Having concluded that Mr A has not lost out financially as a result of the 
recommendation to transfer into a SIPP, I have gone on to consider whether he has 
been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of the inadequate 
explanation about why a stakeholder plan was not right for him. I think he has.
Based on the reasoning offered, Mr A has been left questioning whether the costs of 
the SIPP were appropriate in his case. My view is that this has caused some upset to 
his retirement planning. I consider that £250 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
acknowledge this. I consider this award to be consistent with other awards made by 
this service.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and order ICF Financial Services 
Limited to pay him £250 for the trouble and upset caused to his retirement planning.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman