DRN-4417592
Complaint
Miss G has complained about loans that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She 
says the payments were unaffordable and so she shouldnt have been lent to.
Background
L2G initially provided Miss G with a loan for £250 in May 2021. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1,028.54, 
which included interest, fees and charges of £778.54, was due to be repaid in 18 instalments 
of £57.14. Miss G withdrew from this loan during the cooling off period and so only repaid 
the amount she was lent.
Miss G then approached L2G for a loan for £400 in August 2022. This loan had an APR of 
769.9% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1,479.96, 
which included interest, fees and charges of £1,079.96, was due to be repaid in 18 
instalments of £82.22.
As Miss G repaid loan 1 during the cooling off period and therefore paid no interest weve 
not looked into the complaint about that loan. And all reference to loan made from this point 
forward, is made in relation to the loan for £400 Miss G was provided in August 2022. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss G and L2G had told us. And he thought that 
L2G hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt uphold Miss Gs 
complaint. Miss G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Gs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss G 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Miss G with a loan for £400 in February 2021. As explained, it had an APR of 
769.9% and was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £82.22 which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £1,479.96.
L2G says it agreed to Miss Gs application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out on Miss G. The information Miss G provided about her income and expenditure showed 
that she would be able to make the repayments she was committing to. 
But it, in any event, L2G says it adjusted Miss Gs income and expenditure information to 
account for what its checks showed and this still showed the required payments were 
affordable. L2G says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, 
Miss G has said the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss G and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss Gs first real loan with L2G considering she withdrew from the May 2021 
loan. The information provided suggests Miss G was asked to provide details of her income 
and expenditure. Equally, L2G did carry out external checks and didnt simply rely on what it 
was told. 
L2G carried out a credit search which didnt show anything too alarming. There were a 
couple of historic issues  namely a couple of historic arrangements to pay and Miss G was 
towards the limit on one of revolving credit accounts. However, this needs to be weighed 
against Miss Gs credit usage being low on some of her other revolving credit accounts and 
her indebtedness being low.   
Bearing in mind, what on the face of things was, a low monthly repayment appeared to be 
affordable and Miss Gs lack of any previous lending with L2G, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for L2G to proceed on the basis of the information it obtained as there was 
nothing immediately obvious to call it into question. 
I accept Miss Gs actual circumstances may not been reflected in the information she 
provided and the other information L2G obtained. I know that Miss G says that she was even 
more indebted and reliant on high-cost short-term credit. But L2G could only make its 
decision based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the 
lending relationship and bearing in mind the circumstances, I dont think proportionate 
checks would have extended into L2G asking Miss G to provide further information.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Miss G - it carried out proportionate checks even though Miss G now 
argues that what it was provided with didnt tell the whole story. L2G reasonably relied on 
this information and given its lack of history with Miss G, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
L2G to provide this loan. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss G. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman