DRN-2882704
The complaint
Mr L complains about Metro Bank PLC and their failure to make reasonable adjustments 
when handling a chargeback claim and his request to ammend his sole current account.
What happened
Mr L was unhappy with the way Metro handled a chargeback claim and the amendment of 
his account to add a power of attorney. He raised complaints about both of these issues 
which were referred to our service. These complaints have been investigated under separate 
complaint references and outcomes provided.
When these complaints were investigated by our service, Mr L wished to add to the 
complaints hed already raised. Our investigator explained Metro needed to be given the 
opportunity to respond to these complaints before we could look into them further, and they 
referred the complaints to them on Mr Ls behalf.
Mr L didnt think Metro had made adequate reasonable adjustments when they were made 
aware Mr L hadnt received his new debit card. Mr L thought Metro had acted unfairly by 
asking him to attend branch when hed made it clear he was unable to do so due to his 
disability. And by not allowing his Power of Attorney (POA) to do so on his behalf. He 
thought this was a breach of the discrimination act.
Mr L also thought Metro had made illegal comments about his mental health and his ability 
to manage his finances independently from his POA. He thought this was a violation of his 
rights and wanted this to be considered against the discrimination act. 
Metro didnt respond within the eight-week time period they were afforded. But they did 
provide a response when they provided their business file to us. And within this, Metro 
apologise for any upset Mr L was caused. But they thought theyd made appropriate 
reasonable adjustments and didnt think theyd discriminated against Mr L or his disabilities. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained our service is 
unable to make a determination on breaches of the Equality Act 2010 as this would be for 
Equality and Human Rights Commission to decide. But he explained we were able to 
consider whether Metro has treated Mr L fairly. And he thought they had on this occasion.
He thought Metro had put in place reasonable adjustments as theyd hand delivered Mr Ls 
card to his home address, which was outside of their normal process. And hed seen Metro 
had allowed Mr Ls account to be amended with Mr Ls signature and only his POAs which 
again was outside of their normal process. So, he thought Metro had considered Mr Ls 
disability.
And he didnt think the e-mails Mr L referred to were discriminatory towards Mr Ls mental 
health. He thought the first e-mail referring to legal processes was intended in good faith and 
wasnt an attack on Mr Ls knowledge of the legal system. And he didnt think the second e-
mail made any direct assumptions about Mr Ls capacity to manage his own finances. So, 
while he understood Mr L didnt read the e-mails in this way, he didnt think he could say 
Metro had acted unfairly. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree. He thought Metro had only made adjustments after our service became 
involved and didnt think this was reasonable. And he thought Metro had made unreasonable 
references to his mental capacity and the managing of his account, when his disability isnt 
considered to be related to significant loss of cognitive function. So, he maintained his view 
hed been discriminated against. As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr L. I dont doubt Mr L feels 
discriminated against and I recognise the upset this will have caused him. And I appreciate 
the service Mr L received from Metro fell below the standards he expected. But for me to say 
Metro have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied their actions purposefully caused 
Mr L to receive a lesser service than what wouldve been provided if he didnt have 
disabilities. Or, that Metro knowingly ignored Mr Ls disabilities and failed to put in place what 
I deem to be reasonable adjustments. And in this situation I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain what Ive 
been able to consider. Mr Ls complaints about his chargeback and issuing of a new card, 
and the amendment of his sole current account, have already been considered by this 
service. So, I wont be considering the points these complaints covered again. This decision 
focuses solely on the additional points Mr L raised in December 2020, which are whether 
Metro put in place reasonable adjustments and Mr Ls claims Metro discriminated against 
him.
Its also important to note this service is unable to make determinations on whether Metro 
have breached the Equality Act 2010, which Mr L thinks they have. It would be for the 
Equality and Human Rights Commission to look into and make determinations on this and 
the corresponding law. Instead, Ive considered whether I think Metro have acted fairly 
towards Mr L, and I think they have.
Ive first thought about whether Metro put in place reasonable adjustments to account for Mr 
Ls disability. Mr L doesnt think they did as Metro asked him to attend branch to collect his 
new card when hed informed them he was housebound. And they wouldnt allow his POA to 
collect it on his behalf. 
The delays in the process have been looked at under a separate complaint reference by this 
service. So they havent impacted my decision. Ive focused solely on how Mr L received his 
new card and whether Metro made reasonable adjustments to accommodate this. And Ive 
seen Metro arranged for Mr Ls card to be hand delivered by a member of staff to Mr Ls 
home address. Metro have confirmed this is outside of their usual process and was arranged 
due to the difficulties Mr L faced in attending branch. I think this shows Metro acted fairly and 
making reasonable adjustments to ensure Mr L received his card. So, I cant say theyve 
done anything wrong. I recognise Mr Ls comments that Metro didnt arrange for this until our service had become 
involved. But Metro took the decision to deliver Mr Ls card in this way without any direction 
from our service. So, I dont think our service being notified of the complaint takes away from 
Metros decision to hand deliver Mr Ls card, or the fairness of this.
Ive then thought about Mr Ls view that Metro discriminated against him and attempted to 
take advantage of his disability. Mr Ls first point refers to comments made by Metro about 
his understanding of civil claims and the legal process. And Ive read the e-mail Mr L refer to 
dated 20 January 2020.
Having done so, I dont think this e-mail shows Metro acting unfairly. I can see its asking Mr 
L to clarify further information so Metro were able to understand the claim Mr L stated hed 
be making so they could respond accordingly. And as part of this e-mail, Metro offered to 
reimburse Mr L £125, which is the resolution Mr L initially wanted. Ive seen Mr L accepted 
this offer and didnt pursue a legal claim any further. So, Im satisfied the content of the e-
mail sent by Metro was fair as it brought an agreed resolution to the dispute. And Ive seen 
no evidence to show the content of this e-mail was unreasonably or attempted to take 
advantage of Mr L.
Mr Ls second point refers to an e-mail sent internally by Metro, which was made available to 
Mr Ls POA by his local branch. Mr L feels this e-mail made direct comments and 
assumptions about his mental capacity when his disability is considered not to impact his 
cognitive functions.
Ive read the e-mail which was sent internally from one Metro employee to another. The 
employee who sent it was a member of the fraud team so I can understand why Mr L would 
be worried about this employees involvement and the assumptions Metro may have made 
about his request. But Metro have confirmed this employee was involved due to their 
experience within the business and the rare nature of Mr Ls request. And having read 
through the system notes, I can see no mention of Mr Ls account being flagged or 
investigated for fraudulent reasons so Im satisfied Metros explanation is genuine.
Within the content of the e-mail, the employee explains to another employee the information 
Mr Ls POA would need to provide in order to allow Mr Ls account to be amended. And it 
explains clearly from the outset, Metro were allowing the POA to make this request on Mr Ls 
behalf as an exception from their usual process. So, I think the e-mail was sent with good 
intentions.
But I recognise within the e-mail, it states The letter from the attorney must specify the 
following confirmation the donor has mental capacity to operate a joint account. So, I can 
recognise why Mr L would take offence to this as he was being asked to confirm his own 
mental capacity. But, crucially, I dont think this shows Metro acting unfairly. They were 
allowing Mr Ls POA to amend Mr Ls sole current account without the presence of Mr L. So, 
Metro were unable to confirm the answer to this question in person. And I dont think this 
question in itself was unfair, as Metro need to ensure any amendments to the account didnt 
place its security at risk.
The request itself doesnt give any opinion on whether Mr L does or doesnt have mental 
capacity. Instead, I think the request reads as merely a tick box question, to protect the 
security of Mr Ls account. So, while I appreciate Mr Ls unhappiness at having to confirm 
this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Metro to ask to ensure theyre doing everything 
they can to protect Mr Ls account while its being amended in his absence. Because of this, 
I dont think Metro acted unfairly and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for. And I recognise this decision wont 
take away Mr Ls feelings of upset at the service he received. But I hope it goes some way to 
explaining why I think Metro acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr L on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman