DRN-2763526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt extend their interest only 
mortgage when the term expired, unless they agreed to payment terms they consider unfair. 
Mr and Mrs M also say Barclays shortened the term of their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays in early 2005. The term 
expired in early 2020 with an unpaid balance. Barclays said it would extend the term if Mr 
and Mrs M sold assets to reduce the balance and agreed to repay the remaining balance 
over about five years. Mr and Mrs M say this would have put their finances in a dangerous 
position and left them without working capital for their business. Mr and Mrs M would like 
Barclays to extend the mortgage at the existing interest rate, and with monthly payments 
they feel are more manageable.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties to set out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I didnt think Barclays had treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said Barclays had mis-calculated how long it would take to 
repay the mortgage with monthly payments of £2,000. He said other lenders have offered 
them mortgages with a 15-year term and monthly payments of £2,200. Mr M also raised new 
concerns about how Barclays has dealt with their account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Mr and Mrs M have said, I dont intend to change my findings from 
those set out in my provisional decision  and which were substantially as set out below.
Mr and Mrs M were concerned that the term of their mortgage had been shortened when 
they re-mortgaged. Mr and Mrs M took out a 15-year mortgage in early 2005. They re-
mortgaged in 2008 as they wanted to increase their borrowing. The mortgage offer said the 
term was 11 years and 11 months  meaning it would expire in early 2020, consistent with 
the original mortgage. I dont think Barclays shortened the term of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage.
When Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us, they wanted their mortgage to be 
extended, to give them more time to repay it. Their circumstances have changed due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, and theyve struggled with monthly interest payments. I now need to 
decide two things. First, whether Barclays treated Mr and Mrs M fairly when they asked to 
extend the term of their mortgage. And second, what Barclays should now do to support Mr 
and Mrs M.
Did Barclays treat Mr and Mrs M fairly when they asked for a term extension?
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mr and Mrs M wanted to vary their 
mortgage by extending the term.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. First, where an 
existing mortgage is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers best interests.
I should say that this doesnt mean Barclays cant consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances to do so. Barclays can fairly take this into 
account when considering whats in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests. I should also say that 
while the exception allows Barclays to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about 
affordability it isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another 
reason.
Mr and Mrs M contacted Barclays in mid-2019, about six months before the term of their 
mortgage was due to expire. Mr and Mrs M made various proposals to Barclays.
extension on an interest only basis:
Mr and Mrs M asked for an interest only extension, which Barclays declined as they didnt 
have an acceptable strategy to repay the balance at the end of the extended term.
Mr and Mrs M havent said theyd be better able to repay the mortgage balance at the end of 
an extension  for instance that they would have access to an investment or pension lump 
sum. At the end of an interest-only extension its likely theyd be in the same position, having 
to sell the property to repay the balance. Mr M says the property has been valued at 
£550,000. This is enough to repay the debt owed to Barclays. Theres no guarantee this 
would be the case at the end of any extension. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs M would have 
paid more interest. If they cant pay monthly interest their debt will increase, reducing their 
equity when they do sell the property. I dont think it was clearly in Mr and Mrs Ms best 
interests to extend the term on an interest only basis.
repayment mortgage with monthly payments of £2,000:
Mr and Mrs M proposed switching to a repayment mortgage with monthly payments of up to 
£2,000. Barclays declined as this would have required a 50-year term to repay the mortgage.
Barclays said if Mr and Mrs M used all their assets (they told Barclays they had assets of 
about £140,000) to reduce the balance, it would still have taken over 19 years to repay the 
mortgage with monthly payments of £2,000.
Mr M intends to retire at 75  which was about 13 years away in 2019. I dont think it would 
have been in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests to offer a repayment mortgage with a term much 
longer than this, unless Mr and Mrs M could demonstrate it would still be affordable after 
they retire.
Barclays also made proposals. It said it would hold recovery action while Mr and Mrs M sell 
the property, if they made monthly payments of 85% of their disposable income. Mr and 
Mrs M said this was too much, and they were concerned Barclays would make them sell the 
property for less than they feel its worth.Barclays calculated a repayment plan for the debt to be repaid in the shortest possible time. 
This would need Mr and Mrs M to sell assets and use the proceeds (about £140,000) to 
reduce the outstanding balance and make monthly payments of about £4,700 (which was all 
of their disposable income after meeting their monthly living costs of about £1,700). This 
would have repaid the mortgage within five years. Mr and Mrs M werent comfortable with 
this, as they said this would leave them without working capital for their business.
Mr M says Barclays wasnt prepared to negotiate. However, I wouldnt expect Barclays to 
treat this as a negotiation. Id expect it to consider what options it could offer Mr and Mrs M, 
taking into account their circumstances, rules on mortgage regulation and what was in their 
best interests.
Mr and Mrs M told Barclays they didnt want to commit to monthly payments of more than 
£2,000. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M were concerned about committing themselves to higher 
monthly payments. But I dont think Barclays was unfair to decline to extend the mortgage on 
interest only terms, or on the basis of monthly payments of £2,000, given the length of time it 
would take to repay the mortgage. And based on the information Mr and Mrs M provided to 
Barclays they had disposable income of £4,700.
I think at this point it was fair for Barclays to suggest Mr and Mrs M take independent 
financial advice. It seems unlikely Barclays would have been able to offer a solution that Mr 
and Mrs M were comfortable with. Taking independent advice would have allowed them to 
explore other options  including with other providers  and contact Barclays again with any 
new options this raised before the term expired.
After the complaint came to us, Barclays re-considered whether it could offer a repayment 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs M based on updated income information. It said it could offer a 
repayment mortgage over 12 years for about £320,000. It said Mr and Mrs M would have to 
find a way to repay the £40,000 shortfall. I dont think this was an unfair suggestion as Mr 
and Mrs M had said they had assets of £140,000.
Mr and Mrs M told Barclays they were in the process of re-mortgaging with another lender 
on an interest only basis. Mr M said he wanted to see what happened and would get back to 
Barclays if he wanted to follow up the repayment mortgage option. 
What happens now?
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs Ms business has been badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Their application to another lender is on hold. Theyve had to use their savings for living 
costs.
Barclays agreed to defer payments in mid-2020, as Mr and Mrs M couldnt afford monthly 
interest payments. Mr and Mrs M say theyre making monthly payments, but their business 
hasnt recovered. Mr and Mrs M havent said they expect their circumstances to improve in 
the near future. Mr M says their house and their other main asset (a plot of land) have been 
on the market for about 18 months and havent sold. If Mr and Mrs M cant maintain interest 
payments their debt will increase  reducing their equity in the property. If they are using 
savings to fund interest payments, this will reduce their savings.
Mr and Mrs M borrowed the money and they do have to repay it. In response to my 
provisional decision, Mr M said they were talking to other lenders about a 15-year repayment 
mortgage. Hopefully Mr and Mrs M will be able to re-mortgage. Otherwise, I cant see a 
solution here that would allow Mr and Mrs M to repay the mortgage without selling their 
house. Mr and Mrs M say their house is already on the market for sale. I cant see that circumstances will change, or there are other steps Mr and Mrs M need time to take, that 
would make it fair to require Barclays to hold recovery action to the end of April 2021.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders. The restrictions on lenders taking possession have ended. However, 
Barclays should take current and any further guidance into account.
Mr and Mrs M can consider taking independent financial advice about their options, if they 
havent done so. Id urge Mr and Mrs M to keep Barclays informed about the steps theyre 
taking to repay the mortgage.
I must remind Barclays of its duty to treat Mr and Mrs M fairly. It could consider whether an 
assisted sale would help Mr and Mrs M. And Barclays should of course take guidance issued 
by the regulator into account. But ultimately if Mr and Mrs M arent able to repay the 
mortgage it will be entitled to take possession as a last resort.
Mr and Mrs M recently raised new concerns. Mr and Mrs M should raise these concerns with 
Barclays and give it an opportunity to respond. I cant look into these concerns here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman