DRN-3563522
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt 
display an accurate share price for one of his shareholdings. He says he lost the opportunity 
to trade the shares.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr W bought shares in a company that Ill refer to as L. In the following 
months he said he noticed that the live share price displayed on HLAMs platform was 
frequently lower than the price displayed elsewhere. He said this discrepancy meant his 
portfolio total value and the gain on the shares was wrong, and that being unable to obtain 
accurate information about the share price meant he wasnt able to sell the shares at the 
correct price. He doesnt think he should have to check the price on other platforms  HLAM 
advertises that users can see live share prices in action.
HLAM said there didnt seem to be any issue with its display of live prices for L shares. But it 
said any discrepancy was most likely caused by the inclusion of off-book trades  its prices 
only show on-book trades. It said that the live price it shows doesnt affect Mr Ws ability to 
trade and that hed be given a live quote if he placed a deal online or he could obtain a quote 
from its dealing desk.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt find that 
Mr W had been caused any financial loss and that HLAMs explanation wasnt unreasonable, 
taking into account that its website displays a warning that it cant guarantee the accuracy of 
data.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Any off-book trades shouldnt affect the live share price displayed.
HLAM hasnt treated him fairly because it hasnt provided a clear and reasonable 
explanation for the price discrepancy.
The claim on its website that you can see live shares price in action is false advertising. 
His portfolio doesnt display actual real time data.
Hes made a loss because he would have been able to make an informed decision to sell 
his shares if the data on HLAMs website was correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided screen shots to show Ls share price, as displayed on HLAMs site and 
as displayed on other sites. In each of the examples hes provided, the price shown on 
HLAMs website is slightly different. The HLAM investment platform displays indicative share 
prices, 15 minutes delayed. But there is an option to view the live share price. And, from the 
information Mr Ws provided, it does look most likely that hes chosen the live share price 
option.
Mr W says, because of the inaccuracy of the live price, hes made a loss because he 
couldnt make an informed decision to sell his shares. I dont agree. The inaccuracy of the 
live share price didnt mean HLAM wouldnt provide Mr W with the best share price available 
if hed decided to place a sale order. Had Mr W placed a sale order online, he would have 
received a quote which he would have needed to accept to sell his shares. This might have 
differed from the live share price displayed. This is because, for a buy or sell order, HLAM 
electronically requests a live quote from its panel of up to 32 market makers who will return a 
quote if they want to accept the deal. The most favourable quote is then displayed to the 
consumer who can then decide to accept or reject the quote offered. (There may be other 
reasons why the quote may differ from the live price, for example because of the size of the 
trade, but that wouldnt appear to be relevant here). The same process would apply for a 
trade placed by phone with HLAMs dealing desk. And, as Mr W had access to the live share 
price elsewhere, he would have been able to compare it to the quote hed been given.
Mr W told us that, when he opened the account in 2019, he was new to investment. So 
I appreciate he may not have fully understood how price display and quotes for trades differ, 
although he had some understanding because hed placed other trades with HLAM. And I 
can understand why, because he had concerns about the accuracy of the live share price 
display, that he may have lost some confidence that he would receive the correct price for 
a sale of L shares. But he had access to other live price displays so he could have compared 
those prices to any quote he received. Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr W was prevented 
from selling L shares because of any problem with the live pricing. 
HLAM hasnt provided an explanation as to why the live price it displayed for L shares wasnt 
the same as that quoted elsewhere. It told Mr W that it was because its prices only took 
account of on-book transactions. But this only applies to prices on its fact sheets and share 
price charts. The live price should reflect the live market bid-offer prices.
HLAM said that when it monitored the live price of L shares, in response to Mr Ws 
complaint, it didnt find any issues. Whilst its disappointing HLAM hasnt been able to 
explain the differences Mr W identified, it doesnt guarantee the accuracy of the data on its 
website. And Mr W was able to independently check the live price.
I accept this has been frustrating for Mr W. But, as I dont find hes made a financial loss, 
and HLAM has checked the accuracy of its price feed and found no problem, I cant 
reasonably order it to compensate Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman