DRN-4132257
The complaint
Mr M1, acting on behalf of the estate of Mr M, complains that National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) didnt contact Mr M about a savings certificate that had matured and so 
didnt provide him with the opportunities for reinvestment.
What happened
Mr M1 raised a complaint with NS&I about a savings certificate that matured in 2001 and 
had been earning the General Extension Rate (GER) of interest since that date. He said that 
Mr M didnt receive correspondence about this savings certificate between 2001 and 2016 
and so was denied the opportunity to reinvest the money. He said that Mr M contacted the 
NS&I tracing service in March 2017 and this account wasnt identified. There was further 
correspondence about the account in June 2017, but Mr M1 says this didnt advise about re-
investment. He said this account wasnt listed in Mr Ms online accounts.
NS&I said that Mr M invested in a five-year fixed rate saving certificate in 1996. When the 
certificate matured it said a maturity letter would have been sent and the funds placed on the 
GER, in line with the terms and conditions. It said it was the customers responsibility to 
reinvest the funds or the money would remain on the GER. NS&I said that between 2001 
and 2009 it would have written to Mr M about the matured savings certificate but due to the 
passage of time these letters werent available. In June 2017, NS&I said Mr M contacted it 
about the account requesting a full evaluation which it provided.
Mr M1 referred this complaint, on behalf of the estate of Mr M, to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He was satisfied that Mr M would have been 
contacted on maturity of the savings certificate and about it being placed on the GER. He 
also thought it most likely that Mr M was written to about this account until 2009.
Mr M1 didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that no evidence of a letter being 
sent on maturity in 2001 or letters being sent until 2009 had been provided. He said that 
Mr M had had 26 savings accounts with NS&I which were all reinvested when they matured 
apart from this one account. He noted that it appeared to be accepted that no 
correspondence was sent after 2009 and while he acknowledged the comments about 
contact in 2016 and 2017 he said he hadnt seen copies of this. He reiterated that when 
Mr M set up his accounts online this account wasnt shown. 
Our investigator issued a further view, still not upholding the complaint. He said that Mr M 
had called about the account in June 2017 which showed he was aware of this and said that 
NS&I had explained the account would have been considered as dormant from maturity and 
so wouldnt show in Mr Ms online accounts.
Mr M1 didnt accept this view. He challenged the account status as being dormant and 
reiterated his doubts about the correspondence to 2009. He said that as there was no 
correspondence from 2009 this showed that NS&I had failed to communicate with Mr M and 
so denied him reinvestment opportunities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M invested in a five-year savings certificate in 1996. When this matured in 2001 the funds 
were placed on the GER. As this was in line with the terms and conditions I cannot say that 
NS&I was wrong to do this.
Mr M1s complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr M is that Mr M wasnt contacted about this 
savings certificate after its maturity and so was denied the opportunity to reinvest the money 
at a more beneficial rate. I understand the point that has been made but it was up to Mr M to 
inform NS&I about what he wished to do with his money if he wasnt happy with it remaining 
on the GER. 
NS&I has said that Mr M would have been sent a letter when his savings certificate was due 
to mature. And that between 2001 and 2009 it would have sent Mr M keeping you informed 
leaflets to the address it had on file. It said that if no contact was made then the funds would 
be placed on, and remain on, the GER. I appreciate that evidence of this correspondence 
hasnt been provided but given the timing (maturity letter in 2001 and then further 
correspondence between 2001 and 2009) and that Mr M1 contacted NS&I about this issue in 
2022, I do not find it unreasonable that copies are no longer available. And in this case, on 
balance, I find it more likely than not that this correspondence would have been sent to 
Mr M.
Mr M1 has noted that NS&I hasnt said that there was correspondence after 2009 (until the 
contact made in 2016 and 2017). He says that this denied Mr M the opportunity to reinvest 
his money. I appreciate that there was limited communication after the maturity of the 
savings certificate, but I also accept that it was Mr Ms responsibility to manage his 
investments and he could have contacted NS&I at any time to have reinvested his funds if 
he had wished. I understand that Mr M1 says that Mr M wasnt aware of the matured savings 
certificate but, as he contacted NS&I in 2016 following which the certificate number was 
updated and in June 2017 to ask for a full evaluation and interest breakdown, it appears 
Mr M was aware of the certificate. Following this, I am not aware of any request being made 
for the money to be reinvested and so it remained on the GER. 
Mr M1 says the account didnt appear on Mr Ms online account lists and has challenged the 
comment about the account being dormant. I appreciate the concerns raised but as NS&I 
has explained why the matured savings certificate didnt appear on Mr Ms online accounts 
list and I find it more likely than not that Mr M was aware of the account based on the contact 
in 2016 and 2017, I do not find that this issue changes my decision that Mr M was aware of 
the account and that he could have contacted NS&I about reinvestment had he wished. 
Overall, while I understand the comments Mr M1 has made, particularly that the late Mr M 
had reinvested all of this other savings certificates, I do not find that I can hold NS&I 
responsible for Mr M not reinvesting the money from this savings certificate. Because of this 
I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman