DRN-1751598
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2002. Mrs S 
says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mrs S took out a credit card with BoS in 2002. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on her card if she couldnt work. It also offered 
some life and critical illness cover. 
Mrs S says she didnt know the PPI was optional. She says she wasnt given enough 
information about it.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. The application 
form Mrs S signed showed she had a choice. The box for PPI was selected and Mrs 
S signed the form.
 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need for the cover  Mrs S was entitled to some sick 
pay and contractual redundancy pay, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
this and for longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted. It also would have paid off 
her outstanding balance if she was diagnosed with a critical illness or if she died. 
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been, but this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. I have to consider what she most likely would have done if shed had all 
the information. Im satisfied Mrs S would at least have understood the PPI would have helped cover her repayments if she couldnt work. Mrs S chose to take it out - 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. I also havent seen anything to suggest it was 
unaffordable for Mrs S. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said but these points dont change my 
decision. This means I dont think Mrs S lost out because of anything BoS mightve done 
wrong. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint so it follows that Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman