DRN-3047166
The complaint
Mr F complains Ageas Insurance Limited have declined to indemnify him in respect of a 
claim made on his residential let/holiday homes/unoccupied building and contents policy.
What happened
Mr Fs father (Ill refer to as Mr T) is making a claim against his son - Mr F, for personal 
injury loss and damage sustained in the course of his employment.
Mr T, now a retired builder, built the building that the incident occurred at. He then 
transferred ownership of two of the flats to Mr F. Mr T carries out maintenance jobs for Mr F 
at the rental properties as he lives on site.
In February 2015, whilst undertaking some maintenance work, Mr T fell while on a step 
ladder and injured himself. 
In April 2016, Mr F received a letter from Mr Ts solicitor informing him Mr T intended to 
claim for damages in connection with the fall that happened in February 2015. Mr F 
contacted Ageas in May 2016 to see if it would indemnify him in respect of the claim he was 
being pursued for, Ageas instructed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
The loss adjuster met with Mr F in June 2016.
In November 2016, Ageas declined to indemnify Mr F. It said the policy did not respond to 
the claim because of the following exclusion under section 4 of the policy;
Legal Liability to the Public. We will not indemnify you for Bodily Injury to any person who at 
the time of sustaining such injury is engaged in your service. 
It said Mr T was engaged in Mr Fs service.
In February 2019, Mr F received a summons in relation to the incident. He contacted Ageas 
again as he felt it should be dealing with the claim.
In March 2019, Mr F made a complaint to Ageas as he was unhappy the reasons it had 
given for declining the claim. Ageas responded on 25 April 2019 upholding the complaint. It 
agreed to provide Mr F with indemnity under the terms and conditions of the policy, and it 
would investigate the claim  it appointed a firm of solicitors (Ill refer to it as K) to do this, 
and informed Mr F it will get back to him regarding his legal liability in due course.
In May 2019, Mr F was asked to attend an interview at another solicitors firm in Northern 
Ireland. Ageas says the solicitor was engaged as it wanted a face to face interview and K 
didnt have an office in Northern Ireland. However, Ageas says the solicitor was unable to 
get satisfactory answers to questions at the meeting or in follow up correspondence. Mr F 
was unhappy about the questions asked and the manner of the interview and raised a 
further complaint with Ageas as he felt bullied and intimidated. Ageas sent its final response 
letter in July 2019 not upholding the complaint. As Mr F didnt bring this complaint to our 
service within six months of the final response letter, I am unable to consider the complaint 
points as part of this decision.
Ageas said although Mr F wasnt cooperating with the solicitor in Northern Ireland it 
instructed K to still consider the claim. So, in July 2019, K on behalf of Ageas asked Mr F to 
provide further information in writing. It asked a number of questions about the agreement he 
had with Mr T in relation to carrying out the maintenance work at the property. It also asked 
why the incident wasnt notified to Ageas until May 2016. It also requested further 
information about the step ladder involved in the incident. K reminded Mr F failure to provide 
Ageas with the information and assistance, may result in Ageas refusing the claim. Mr F 
says he responded to this request in August 2019.
In September 2019, K responded to Mr F to say the information he provided wasnt sufficient 
and reiterated it would need full and detailed answers to determine if the policy covered the 
claim. It also requested additional information in relation to the rent monies Mr T collected on 
Mr Fs behalf. It gave him a further 14 days to provide the information.
Mr F told Ageas that he had spoken with his own solicitor and they told him it was mystified 
as to how he could answer the questions regarding other people and whether this was within 
the terms and conditions. Mr F also contacted Mr T who said he was willing to meet with the 
solicitors in Northern Ireland to answer the questions he couldnt. Mr F felt the questions 
regarding ownership of other flats at the property, Ageas could do a land registry search. 
And Mr F felt the information about the rent monies wasnt required, but should it be by the 
court, he would provide it. 
K informed Mr F that Ageas will not indemnify him in respect of the claim made. It said Mr F 
was in breach of claim conditions as he had not satisfactorily answered the questions in the 
letters sent in July and September 2019. And as a result of not answering the questions, 
Ageas was unable to reach a decision on policy indemnity and lost the opportunity to deal 
with the claim. 
Following contact with our service in September 2020, Mr F made a formal complaint to 
Ageas. Ageas sent Mr F its final response on 28 January 2021 maintaining Mr F had failed 
to answer the questions it required, and these were crucial to establishing liability. It said it 
had pointed Mr F to the provision in the policy about making a claim and due to him not 
complying, it had severely prejudiced its position to consider the application of the exclusion 
clause and reach a decision on policy indemnity. It said the substantial delay has also 
prejudiced its ability to consider the claim as the claim occurred in 2016 and to date it hadnt 
been provided with the information it has requested. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F didnt accept her findings, he felt the 
questions asked by the insurer are inappropriate and he cant answer honestly as they are 
aimed towards the injured party and not him. So, the case has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer doesnt pay a claim, or withdraws indemnity, my role is to see if I think its 
acted fairly. When doing so Ill look at the circumstances, policy terms and industry 
guidelines such as ICOBS (Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook) when coming to my 
decision. Ageas say that they withdrew indemnity because Mr F breached its policy under the section 
Making a Claim and Claims Conditions applicable to the whole of this insurance which 
says; 
Your duties
In the event of a claim or possible claim under this insurance
1. you must notify us as soon as possible giving us full details of what has happened.
2. you must provide us with any other information they require within 30 days of their 
request.
If you fail to comply with any of the above duties this may invalidate a claim
It is clear under the policy that Ageas are entitled to refuse indemnity if they can show that 
Mr F was in breach of the condition. So, I need to consider whether Mr F breached his policy 
and, if so, whether it was fair for Ageas to refuse to indemnify him.
I have seen a copy of Ageas letter sent to Mr F dated 18 November 2016 suggesting the 
policy wouldnt cover Mr F due to an exclusion under Section 4 of the policy; Legal Liability 
to the Public. We will not indemnify you for Bodily Injury to any person who at the time of 
sustaining such injury is engaged in your service. But after Mr Fs complaint in March 2019 
Ageas confirmed in April 2019, it would indemnify Mr F and investigate the claim. 
In July 2019 Ageas appointed solicitors requested further information from Mr F as the 
claimant said his injuries were sustained in the course of his employment with Mr F. It 
wanted to consider this point further and so asked a series of questions surrounding the 
ownership of the flats and the agreement Mr F has with Mr T. I dont think the questions 
were unreasonable and were clearly related to the policy and claim being made. The next 
question related to why Mr F didnt report the claim to Ageas until May 2016 when the 
incident happened in February 2015. And it also wanted information regarding the step 
ladder involved in the incident. From what Ive see Mr F didnt respond to most of the 
questions and felt it inappropriate to answer questions about his Mr Ts life and about other 
property owners. However, as Mr F had indicated to the initial loss adjuster that the other 
property owners were members of the family, Im persuaded the questions were not 
inappropriate and Mr F couldve provided what information he did have knowledge of. 
I think by refusing to provide this information, Mr F failed to comply with the terms of his 
policy as Ageas have said. 
However, even if an insurer can show that a customer has breached a term of their policy, 
they will also need to show that theyve been prejudiced by the breach for us to say that 
refusal or withdrawal of indemnity is fair.
Looking at all the circumstances outlined above, by Mr F failing to provide the information 
requested by Ageas appointed solicitors he has prejudiced Ageas position. I say this as it 
has been unable to consider the application of the exclusion under Section 4 of the policy or 
if it should still indemnify Mr F. I therefore think it was fair for Ageas to withdraw the 
indemnity and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 Angela Casey
Ombudsman