DRN-3411514
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to accept liability 
following a claim under Mrs Bs motor insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs B was driving when she was involved in a collision with another car. 
She says she pulled into a car park and saw no spaces. A large van was waiting to drive out 
and she saw another driver maybe about to leave the car park. She reversed slightly to allow 
space for the van to leave. She then stopped, and the third party drove into the back of her 
car. Mrs B says her parking sensors didnt indicate anything was close when she reversed. 
There was little damage to Mrs Bs car. But she says she was shocked to see the damage to 
the other car, which she thought must have been pre-existing. She gave her details to the 
third-party driver, but she didnt provide her details. Mrs B thought this was a criminal act. 
Mr and Mrs B were made aware of a witness for the third-party, who they didnt think was 
credible. But expected UKI to tell them if any further witnesses came forward. At the end of 
October 2021, they phoned UKI, at which point they became aware it had accepted liability 
for the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B were shocked by this. They say they werent given the opportunity to produce 
their own witnesses and the possibility of CCTV wasnt investigated by UKI. They dont think 
Mrs B was at fault. They dont think the third-parties car was damaged to the extent claimed, 
and dont think the third-party driver couldve been injured to justify a personal injury claim.
UKI says the witness statements support the third parties account of Mrs B reversing into the 
third-parties car causing the damage. It says Mr and Mrs B didnt mention witnesses or the 
possibility of CCTV footage, either when they first claimed or in subsequent conversations. It 
says it emailed the third-parties witness statements to Mr and Mrs B in October 2021 as 
requested. But it didnt call to say this information had been received. 
UKI says if it can get hold of CCTV footage, and this supports Mrs Bs account, it still has the 
option to seek recovery from the third-parties insurer. It has also paid them £50 
compensation for failing to call when it said it would. But it thinks its decision to accept 
liability is correct.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this outcome was fair and referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought UKI had considered the 
information fairly when arriving at its decision to accept liability.    
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. It has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to them, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns about delays in the repairs that were arranged by UKI. I 
cant see that this was raised with the business as part of their complaint. This service isnt 
able to consider a complaint until the business has first investigated. So, I wont be 
considering this issue in my decision. 
Its not my role to decide who is at fault for an accident. This is something that is better 
handled by the courts. My remit here is to consider whether UKI handled Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim in a fair and reasonable manner.  
Firstly, I have read the policy terms to see what it says about UKI accepting liability for the 
claim. The policy terms say:
Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations
b. We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name, or 
in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
This essentially means UKI can choose how it wants to handle the claim. It doesnt need the 
policyholders agreement or consent. That said we still expect it to handle a claim fairly and 
reasonably based on the facts and evidence. 
The third partys account is that Mrs B reversed into her car causing the damage. I have 
read the two witness statements provided by the third party. These corroborate her account 
that it was Mrs Bs car that caused the collision when reversing out of a car park.
Mr and Mrs B questioned the independence of the witnesses. I understand they are known 
to the third party through the local school. I can see from the records that UKI considered 
this point. But it didnt think the relationship was close enough to raise concerns about the 
veracity of these statements. UKI highlighted the potential for prosecution if a witness gave 
information that they knew to be untrue. Based on what I have seen I dont think UKIs 
reasons for accepting this information are unreasonable.        
I have thought about Mr and Mrs Bs view that they werent given the opportunity to provide 
their own witness statements. 
From the information provided, Mr and Mrs B didnt identify witnesses when the claim was 
first raised. I havent seen evidence to show Mrs B took details from a witness at the time of 
the accident. 
Mr and Mrs B were aware the third party was disputing liability and providing details about a 
witness. Knowing this, I think its reasonable to expect them to tell UKI at an early stage if 
they had supporting evidence to prove Mrs B wasnt at fault.   
I understand their point that they wanted to know if the third party produced any further 
witness statements. They could then discuss any necessary course of action. They would 
then decide whether to provide witness statements. 
I can see that the third-party witness statements were sent by email to Mr and Mrs B in October 2021. From the records provided this was sent to the correct email address. Its not 
clear why Mr and Mrs B didnt receive this information. UKI should have called with an 
update as it had promised. So, I think its fair that it paid £50 compensation to acknowledge 
this. But I dont think its been shown that witness statements couldve been provided by Mr 
and Mrs B or that UKI prevented this from happening.  
I cant see that CCTV footage was mentioned by Mr and Mrs B when the claim was raised. 
Its reasonable to expect UKI to try and obtain this information if its made aware of available 
footage. But I cant see that this was mentioned by Mr and Mrs B until the beginning of 
November 2021. This was approaching two months after the accident. In our experience 
CCTV is often held for a short period of time so any footage that was recorded, may no 
longer be available. 
UKI says its requested CCTV footage from the supermarket near where the accident 
happened. Mr and Mrs B suggest its cameras may have captured the accident. I think this is 
fair and will allow UKI to seek recovery from the third-party insurer if its shown that Mrs B 
wasnt at fault. But I dont think this is something UKI was aware of earlier in the claim.      
I have also thought about Mr and Mrs Bs concern that damage to the third partys car was 
pre-existing. I can see from its records that UKI referred to a specialist team in September 
2021 to assess whether there were any issues or inconsistencies. Its log notes from the end 
of September show a number of checks were performed and a desktop assessment of the 
damage to both cars was conducted. No concerns were raised as a result of this.
Having considered all of this I dont think UKI behaved unreasonably in accepting liability for 
Mrs Bs accident for the reasons Ive stated. It shouldve called when it promised to, but it 
paid £50 in compensation for this omission which I think was fair. So, I cant reasonably ask 
it to do any more to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman