DRN-4407025
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the way in which Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a
claim made on her travel insurance policy, the medical assistance provided whilst she was
abroad and its decision to only pay a proportion of expenses incurred.
All references to Admiral include its claim handlers and medical assistance team.
What happened
Mrs P had the benefit of a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral (the policy).
Whilst abroad, at the end of 2022, Mrs P became ill and required emergency medical
attention. She contacted Admiral for assistance.
Mrs P is unhappy with the overall service she received from Admiral including a lack of
communication, unnecessary delays and failing to promptly inform her that she could provide
Admiral with an indemnity should it later be determined that it wasnt responsible for all, or
any costs incurred.
As a result, Mrs P says she was kept waiting longer than necessary for medical tests to be
carried out. Not only did this mean she was left in an uncomfortable position for longer than
was necessary, but she also says she was kept in hospital for longer than was needed.
Mrs P is also unhappy that she had to pay for medical costs up front and that Admiral has
only agreed to cover 73% of her costs of the basis that she didnt declare treatment shed
had for cancer at the time of renewing the policy.
In its final response letter Admiral accepted that it had incurred technical difficulties during
the period Mrs P was first admitted to hospital. It apologised for difficulties she had calling
Admiral and offered £25 compensation. However, Admiral didnt uphold her other concerns.
Mrs P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked into what
happened and concluded that Admiral had acted fairly by only agreeing to cover 73% of her
claim. However, she recommended Admiral increase compensation from £25 to £150 for
impact its service failings had on her.
Admiral agreed with our investigators recommendation. Mrs P didnt. So, I was passed
this complaint to decide. I issued my provisional decision explaining in more detail why I 
intended to partially uphold Mrs Ps complaint. An extract of which is set out below. 

At the outset, in relation to the claim made by Mrs P, I confirm that Ive only considered
whether Admiral has fairly and reasonably concluded to pay 73% of the costs claimed. Im
aware that Mrs P also disagreed with the total costs that Admiral said were being charged by
the treating hospital and the total amount it said Mrs P still owed. However, thats been
investigated as a separate complaint.
Proportionately settling the claim
When considering whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably, Ive taken into account
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which I think
is relevant in this particular case.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
taking out  or renewing - a consumer insurance contract (such as a travel insurance policy).
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the
insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -
a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (so in
this case, Admiral) has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms - or not at
all - if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Its Admirals position that when renewing the policy Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not
to make a misrepresentation. So, it only agreed to cover 73% of the claimed costs. For the
reasons set out below, think Admirals decision to only cover a percentage of the claim is fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
It isnt disputed that Mrs P was diagnosed with cancer in mid-2020 and subsequently
received treatment for it.
Shortly before the policy was due to renew in November 2022, Admiral sent Mrs P her policy
documentation. That included the schedule of insurance. It says:
This policy schedule provides important details about your policy. It must be read
along with the Guide to your Admiral Travel Insurance cover.
Please check this document carefully and if anything is incorrect, call us.
It then details the insured person as Mrs P and lists four pre-existing medical conditions. I
think its relevant that cancer isnt one of the four conditions listed.
Further down the same page it says:
Before you travel
If you have a new medical condition or change in health you need to tell us about, or
you want to amend or discuss your cover, please call us on.
So, Im satisfied when renewing the policy, Mrs P wasnt asked any specific questions about
her health or medical history. However, under CIDRA, if a consumer fails to comply with an
insurers request to confirm or amend information previously given by the consumer, this can
still amount to a qualifying misrepresentation.
Im satisfied that as cancer wasnt mentioned as a pre-existing medical condition and it was
a condition which had developed since first making her medical declaration, Mrs P ought to
have contacted Admiral to inform them that she needed to add to the pre-existing medical
conditions listed on the policy schedule (and the medical declaration which accompanied it)
when renewing the policy.
Whilst the claim was being considered, Admirals contact notes reflect that Mrs P explained
that she did call Admiral around the time the time of the policy renewal date a couple ofyears earlier, in November 2020, to declare cancer. She recalls that Admirals representative
who shed spoken to advised her that she didnt need to declare cancer; just that she had
surgery.
Our investigator asked Admiral for any call recordings from around this time, but Admiral
said that theyre no longer available. However, within Admirals contact notes, theres an
entry dated 24 January 2023 reflecting that they had searched for calls at that time, and
there were only two records of Mrs P contacting it since shed been diagnosed with cancer:
once in November 2020 and in July 2021. Its reflected medical issues werent discussed in
either call as they related to not being able to access documents and not being able to log
into the online portal.
Its possible that there were other calls made by Mrs P to Admiral from around that time
which werent located. But on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that Mrs P did
contact Admiral to declare her cancer in 2020 but was told that she didnt need to. One of
the questions which form part of the medical declaration reflects:
Have you or anyone in your party ever been diagnosed with or treated for any of the
following: -any heart or respiratory condition? -any circulatory condition (problems
with blood flow, including strokes, high blood pressure and cholesterol?  any liver
condition?  any cancerous condition?
So, if Mrs P had called to tell it about her cancer, I think its unlikely that she would have
been told that she didnt need to declare it.
Further Mrs P hasnt been wholly consistent in her account of what happened in November
2020. The contact notes also reflect that she told Admiral whilst her claim was being
considered that when calling to declare cancer, she was asked to pay a small premium
increase.
Im also conscious that the question Ive highlighted above is answered yes in the medical
declaration form sent with the policy schedule (and other policy documents). Im satisfied
that this answer was given previously in response to having a heart or respiratory condition,
which forms part of a list of conditions Mrs P was asked about in the same question; not
because shed been diagnosed and received treatment for cancer.
So, Im satisfied that Admiral has fairly concluded that Mrs P didnt disclose cancer when the
policy renewed as she should have. And Im satisfied that Admiral has fairly concluded that
she made a qualifying disclosure as she acted carelessly.
Admiral says had Mrs P declared cancer, it would have still offered to renew the policy, but
Mrs P would have paid more for the annual premium. Admiral has provided evidence
showing how its reached that conclusion. Im satisfied that Admiral has accurately
rescreened Mrs Ps medical conditions by accurately answering the follow up questions she
wouldve been asked if shed declared cancer. And this resulted in a higher weighting being
applied to the premium resulting in the increase in premium.
Im satisfied Mrs P only paid around 73% of the correct premium. And I dont think Admiral
has acted unfairly by offering to proportionately settle the costs its accepted to cover as part
of Mrs Ps claim.
The service received by Admiral
Admiral has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. And it must handle insurance
claims fairly and promptly.Mrs P is unhappy that Admiral initially delayed authorising treatment and providing a
guarantee of payment to the treating medical facility. As a result, she says she was initially
left in an uncomfortable position for longer than necessary, with a cannula fitted in each arm
and she couldnt move her arms.
Shortly after contacting Admiral, Mrs P was sent an email explaining that it needs to confirm
what shes being treated for, and some checks might be needed to ensure that cover was in
place under the policy. She was also told that the medical facility may require her to pay for
treatment up front whilst any initial checks were ongoing.
Once the medical report was received, there was mention of Mrs Ps cancer two years ago.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to want to obtain Mrs Ps GP records before
verifying cover. And Im satisfied that it obtained Mrs Ps consent to contact her GP promptly
after receiving the treating facilitys medical report.
Unfortunately, due to the time of year, there were initial delays getting the GP records and I
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Admiral responsible for this in this case.
Whilst it awaited the GP records, Admiral did offer to cover an angiogram Mrs P required on
an indemnity basis and sent the medical facility a guarantee of payment to cover the cost of
this test. I dont think that was unreasonable in the circumstances and reflected the urgency
of the situation Mrs P found herself in.
I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably by not subsequently providing a guarantee of
payment for the entirety of medical costs incurred to enable Mrs P to be discharged. I know
that meant Mrs P had to pay some medical bills so that she could be discharged. But I think
it was reasonable in this case for Admiral to wait until it had received and considered the GP
records.
However, the contact notes reflect that the GP surgery contacted Admiral on 4 January 2023
to say that the consent form it had sent was blurry and Im persuaded that Admiral took a
number of days to follow this up with a clearer version of the form. I think thats too long in
this case. Im satisfied this delay caused Mrs P some distress and inconvenience as I can
see she chased Admiral for an update on 8 January 2023 about whether it had heard back
from the GP surgery as she was anxious to know what was happening about payment to the
medical facility.
The records were received around 10 January 2023 and Admiral promptly updated Mrs P.
Im satisfied that the GP records were promptly reviewed and medical conditions that hadnt
been declared were re-screened and decision taken to only cover 73% of the claim. Im
satisfied that Mrs P was promptly notified of this decision.
In its final response letter dated February 2023, Admiral has offered Mrs P £25
compensation. It says it experienced technical issues which impacted the service Mrs P
received. This resulted in increased waiting times and phone lines being shut, on occasion.
However, I dont think £25 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mrs P
experienced overall as result of some delays caused by Admiral. This was a worrying time
for Mrs P, and she was kept waiting longer than reasonably needed to know whether shed
be reimbursed for the costs shed incurred. Im satisfied that these unnecessary delays
would have exacerbated an already difficult time for her over several days. Im satisfied
compensation in the sum of £150 is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience she
experienced.
.I invited both parties to provide any further information for me to consider. Admiral had 
nothing further to add and accepted my provisional decision. Mrs P explained that she didnt 
agree with my provisional findings but accepted the provisional decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.
For this reason, and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which 
appears above and forms part of my final decision), I partially uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct Admiral to pay Mrs P £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
(less the sum of £25 it offered Mrs P in its final response letter dated February 2023 if this
has already been paid).
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman