DRN-2305211
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unreasonably refuse to pay his claim 
under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had his travel insurance through his bank account, which is underwritten by AXA.
He booked to go abroad for a wedding and a holiday leaving 21 August 2019 and returning 
on 16 September 2019. 
Mr W said there was a fire at the private property he was staying at on 25 August. He said it 
destroyed all his belonging, two suitcases plus some gifts which he had brought out to give 
to people. Which meant he had to pay for alternative accommodation plus new clothes.
So, he made a claim to AXA. AXA was of the view Mr W had misrepresented his claim, so it 
refused to pay it. Mr W then brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think AXA 
had done anything wrong. Mr W didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
In order to have a claim paid, insurers including AXA require the claim to be validated by the 
policyholder namely Mr W. AXA said it wasnt satisfied with the information Mr W provided. 
Which meant it wasnt satisfied that Mr W had lost all the items he claimed. My role is to 
assess whether AXA assessed the evidence that Mr W provided fairly and reasonable in 
order to come its decision. I think it did. There are several reasons for this which I shall detail 
as follows.
Although the police department confirmed there was a fire, that doesnt necessarily mean 
the fire damaged Mr Ws belongings. AXA asked Mr W to provide photographic evidence of 
the fire at the house where he said his belongings were damaged. The photos Mr W 
provided didnt show fire damage to the house Mr W said he was staying in. Therefore, I 
dont consider AXA concern that his belongings might not have had any fire damage to be 
unreasonable. 
Mr W claimed the fire had damaged some DJ decks, but AXA found photos of these DJ 
being used after the fire on social media. I consider its reasonable consequently for AXA to 
consider it was possible the DJ decks werent damaged.
Mr W claimed he had to stay in alternative B&B accommodation. However, AXA from its 
external enquires, couldnt find that this B&B existed. The telephone number wouldnt take a 
message and the email address bounced back any emails. Therefore, it couldnt confirm that 
Mr W had stayed there. Consequently, I consider it reasonable that AXA was of the view that 
Mr W hadnt shown he stayed at this B&B and indeed incurred the claimed costs for doing 
so.
Mr W claimed as a result of the fire he had to borrow money to stay in alternative 
accommodation plus buy new clothes. But from the bank statements Mr W there was no 
evidence Mr W received any money from any source to indicate any loan from anyone. 
Instead it seems he merely moved money from one account to another. Therefore, I dont 
consider it was unreasonable of AXA to conclude that Mr Ws bank statements didnt prove 
Mr W was in receipt of any loan from anyone.
Mr W said he flew out to his destination with two suitcases. And because of the fire damage 
he had to buy a new suitcase and that he then flew back to the UK with just one suitcase. 
However, the airline confirmed to AXA that Mr W flew back to the UK with two suitcases. 
Therefore, it wasnt verified that Mr W flew back with only one suitcase as he claimed but 
instead it looked more likely that he had flown home with the same suitcases he flew out 
with.
As the investigator detailed in his view Mr Ws policy, like every other insurance policy 
provides that policyholders are expected to act honestly to include not making false 
statements or exaggerated claims. Mr W hasnt provided us or AXA with any evidence to 
eradicate AXAs concerns with the veracity of his claim.
Therefore, I dont consider AXA has done anything wrong in refusing to pay Mr Ws claim.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman