DRN-2761040
The complaint
Mr B has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took four loans from Mr Lender between March 2018 and August 2019. A summary of 
his borrowing based on the information provided to us from the lender can be seen below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidNo. of 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Repayment
1 02/03/2018 19/06/2018 3 £200.00 £109.86
2 17/07/2018 28/12/2018 3 £200.00 £133.86
3 28/12/2018 31/07/2019 6 £600.00 £244.00
4 01/08/2019 30/09/2020 12 £1,000.00 £213.83
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. She thought that the lenders checks 
went far enough for Mr Bs first three loans. The information that Mr B provided about his 
circumstances suggested the loan repayments were affordable for loans 1-3.
But the adjudicator thought Mr Lenders checks shouldve gone further for Mr Bs last loan. 
This is because Mr B had taken out his largest loan to date, but he had been showing signs 
that he was struggling with his previous loans as he opted to defer the repayments on loans 
1-3. The adjudicator thought Mr Lender ought to have been verifying the information that 
Mr B told it. And had Mr Lender done this, she thought the lender would have seen that Mr B 
had outstanding loans with other lenders at the time. So, the adjudicator upheld Mr Bs 
complaint about loan 4.
It appears that Mr B agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr Lender disagreed and provided the following comments to consider:
It didnt agree that Mr B's borrowing relationship had established such a pattern. The
amount of checks it carried out were proportionate to both the loan amount and the 
stage in the borrowing relationship.
Mr B deferred payment on loans 1, 2 and 3. As this was pre-set, Mr Lender didnt 
think this demonstrated Mr B was having any difficulty repaying his loans.
It wasnt sure what information the adjudicator gathered to see that Mr B had other 
short-term loans outstanding, at the point loan 4 was provided. However, its credit 
check didnt provide conflicting information. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Loan 1-3
It appears that both Mr B and Mr Lender have accepted our adjudicators findings about 
these three loans. As I think the initial approval of loans 1-3 are no longer in dispute, I have 
no reason to reach a finding about them in this decision. Instead, I will be focussing on 
Mr Bs fourth loan and whether Mr Lender was wrong to approve this loan.
Loan 4When Mr B approached Mr Lender for his last loan, Mr Lender asked him to declare his 
monthly income and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Mr B declared he was 
receiving a net monthly income of £1,810. And that his expenditure amounted to £968 each 
month. This would have left Mr B with a disposable income of £842 from which to meet his 
largest contractual repayment of £213.83 a month. So, I think the repayments appeared 
affordable based on the information Mr B declared about his financial circumstances.
But having considered all the information Mr Lender was presented with, I think the lenders 
checks should have gone further to ensure the loan repayments were sustainable for him. 
This was Mr Bs fourth loan without any significant breaks between them. In fact, Mr B was 
showing signs that he was needing to borrow almost immediately after repaying a previous 
loan. Mr B requested loan 4 a day after repaying his previous loan. Loan 4 was also Mr Bs 
largest loan to date, and he was due to make the contractual repayments over a period of 12 
months. Mr Bs longest loan before loan 4 was to be repaid in six monthly instalments  so 
Mr B was now committing to repay his loan over a period double this time. 
Furthermore, Mr B had shown signs that he had struggled to repay all of his previous loans 
because he wasnt able to repay the loans in line with the credit agreements he had signed. 
So, for example, for loan two, Mr B needed to make three payments in August, September 
and October 2018. Each payment Mr B was committed to making including interest and 
some capital. Mr B only repaid interest when the first and third instalments were due  which 
resulted in a three-month loan actually taking 5 months to repay.  If Mr B had done this on 
just one of his loans, I dont think that wouldve led Mr Lender to conclude that there may be 
a problem. But the pattern of him needing to do this on all three previous loans should have 
raised a significant flag of potential concern.
So, a pattern had emerged where Mr B was unable to make his repayments in-line with his 
contractual agreement. Given this, overall, I think Mr Lender needed to verify the information 
that Mr B was telling it about his circumstances. After all, there was a real possibility that Mr 
B would have had difficulties meeting the full contractual repayments for loan 4 as he had 
done this on his previous loans, and the duration of loan 4 was over a much longer term. 
Furthermore, Mr Lender has commented that Mr B had no outstanding short-term loans at 
the time of his fourth application. But this is very concerning, considering Mr B informed 
Mr Lender that he was paying £258 a month towards other credit, which Mr Lender says 
included other short-term loans with other lenders. So, I think Mr Lender was at least on 
notice that there was a real possibility that Mr B had short term lending with other lenders. I 
think Mr Lender should have verified the information Mr B was telling it about his financial 
situation. This would have enabled the lender to see if he was in a position to sustain the 
repayments over the period of a year. But I cant see that Mr Lender did this.
We asked Mr B for a copy of his bank statements and credit file. Whilst he has provided a 
summary of his credit file, I am unable to see what the full details are for each credit entry. 
However, our service has enough information from other cases showing what Mr Bs 
circumstances were like at the time of his fourth loan application. I can see Mr B had two 
outstanding short-term loans with another lender at the time. And the repayments for both of 
these loans totalled £374.30. 
I think the fact that Mr B had two outstanding short term loans already, and he had shown 
signs that he was having difficulties making repayments, should have deterred Mr Lender 
from approving his loan. So, for these reasons, I think Mr Lender ought to have concluded 
that Mr B was unlikely to have been able to make the repayments for loan 4 in a sustainable 
way. 
As a result, I think Mr Lender were wrong to approve Mr Bs last loan.Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr Bs fourth loan, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr B may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender should refund all interest, fees and charges on loan 4.
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B from the
date Mr B originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded about loan 4 from Mr Bs 
credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should put things for Mr B as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman