DRN-1447330
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Savings and Investments amended the terms and conditions 
of his Bond accounts without telling him. Hes also unhappy they placed his savings into a 
restricted access account without his authority. 
What happened
Mr G had three Bond accounts with NS&I which he took out in 2018. If Mr G wanted to 
withdraw funds from those Bonds he'd need to pay a penalty of 90 days interest. In May 
2019, the Bond terms came to an end and NS&I transferred them into three new Bonds. 
However, the new Bonds had different terms and conditions which meant Mr G could now 
only access his money at the end of the Bond term.
Mr G complained to NS&I as he said he hadnt given them authority to do this. He said that 
he wouldnt have agreed to restrict access to his money until the new Bond end dates of 
May 2020 as he wanted to pay off his mortgage in October 2019. He also said he hadnt 
seen any electronic messages saying there had been a change of terms  and even if he 
had he didnt think this would have been enough to let him know the terms were materially 
different to what hed had previously.
NS&I didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mr G had opted for a paperless account so 
he would have received his notifications electronically. They said notifications had been sent 
to Mr G in mid-April and early May to let him know his existing Bonds were maturing, and if 
they didnt receive instructions on what he wanted them to do next, the Bonds would 
automatically roll over into a new Bond. And that each notification had included an updated 
key features document and advised of changes to the terms and conditions. 
NS&I also said that Mr G had been sent confirmation once the Bonds had matured and 
rolled into the new accounts. They also noted that Mr G had asked them to close one of the 
Bonds in early June, which theyd done as he was within the 30-day cooling off period - 
which had been introduced due to the changes in the terms and conditions. Mr G didnt 
agree and asked our service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that NS&I hadnt treated 
Mr G unfairly as theyd sent him emails and notifications to let him know about changes to 
his account and given him a 30-day cooling off period if he didnt want to renew the Bonds. 
He also felt NS&I had renewed the Bonds in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mr G didnt agree. He felt the new Bonds were materially different to the ones hed had 
previously. So NS&I should have asked for explicit consent before making the renewal. So 
he asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
I recognise Mr Gs point that the new Bonds werent suitable for him as he wanted access to 
his money when he needed it. And because this option had been removed by NS&I he 
feels this was now a different product so it shouldnt have automatically renewed and should 
have required explicit consent. But I dont agree. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mr G had a paperless account with NS&I and received all 
correspondence via email or his online account. So I think its reasonable for NS&I to 
communicate with Mr D in either way - and in this case I can see they did both. Ive seen 
copies of the six emails which NS&I sent to Mr G in mid-April and early May 2019  two for 
each Bond. Each of the emails said NS&I had made an important change to NS&I 
Guaranteed Income Bonds and then explained If you decide to renew or buy a new Bond, 
you wont be able to cash it in before the new maturity date  youll need to hold the Bond for 
the full term and that a 30 day cooling-off period had been introduced. 
I recognise Mr G said he missed the emails in April as he was away and didnt get the 
chance to check his emails frequently. However, I cant see that Mr G told NS&I that he 
wouldnt be able to check his emails as frequently, so I think it was reasonable for them to 
believe Mr G was receiving their correspondence in the way he normally would have. Ive 
also seen copies of the follow-up emails which were sent to Mr G in early May. So I think its 
reasonable for NS&I to believe Mr G would have seen at least one of the emails theyd sent 
him. 
Looking at the case Ive seen copies of the notification letters and key features document 
which NS&I said were sent to Mr Gs online account in mid-April 2019. Again there was one 
notification for each Bond which said in bold that Weve made an important change to NS&I 
Guaranteed Income Bonds and then explained If you decide to renew or buy a new Bond, 
you wont be able to cash it in before the new maturity date  youll need to hold the Bond for 
the full term. And given the content of the letters, Im satisfied NS&I made it clear there had 
been some changes to the Bonds and there was important information Mr G needed to 
read.   
Ive also seen the key features document, which explained on page two under the 
investment key features that The bond is designed to be held for the whole term. You cant 
cash it in before the end of the term and that You can cancel within 30 days of receiving 
confirmation of your Bond and on page four there is a sub-heading which says, No 
withdrawals until maturity and explains the Bond has to be held for the full term. So I think if 
Mr G had looked at any of the documents sent to him by NS&I, he ought to have reasonably 
been aware that material changes had been made to the Bonds which would restrict access 
to his money. 
I recognise Mr G said that he didnt feel the need to respond to the deadlines set by NS&I 
and its unfortunate that Mr G didnt realise his money would be tied in to the new Bonds. 
However, Ive seen NS&Is contact logs which show that Mr G logged into his online portal a 
couple of times after the first batch of emails had been sent to him, and the notification 
letters had been applied to his online account in mid-April 2019. Ive also seen a screen shot 
of the message Mr G would have received when he logged into the portal. This confirmed he 
had numerous unread messages about his maturing bonds. So based on what Ive seen Im 
satisfied NS&I made sufficient attempts to make Mr G aware he needed to take some type of 
action regarding his Bond accounts.Mr G has told us he feels NS&Is terms and conditions are unfair as they didnt require him to 
authorise the reinvestment of his money. But the letters which were sent to Mr Gs online 
account explained the previous access terms meant the money could be accessed but with 
a 90-day loss of interest. However, with the new Bond there wouldnt be any access to the 
money until it reached the end of its term, so there were other options to choose from. And 
that if the Bond had automatically renewed, Mr G would have 30 days to cancel it and 
receive a full value refund plus any interest due.
I recognise Mr G feels he should have been explicitly asked to confirm he agreed with the 
amended terms before the Bonds renewed, and that the terms were unfair. However, I've 
considered whether the overall terms and conditions of the Bond were fair based on the 
changes that NS&I made, and I think they were. I say this because the terms for automatic 
renewal without explicit consent didn't prevent Mr G from withdrawing his money within the 
first 30 days of the renewal without penalty. And I can see that he was given the chance to 
do this, alongside a reminder. So I don't think the terms limited Mr G's ability to make a 
choice about what he wanted to do at renewal. 
Looking at the terms, I can see that under the 'Changes to terms and conditions' section it 
says if any changes are made by NS&I which are to the Bond holders detriment they will "let 
them know personally at least 30 days before the change. If this is the case, the Bond holder 
can switch to another NS&I product or cash in their Bond without notice or penalty within 60 
days of us telling them". I'm satisfied that NS&I did this using different contact 
methods, within different documents, and that these were shown prominently - not just 
hidden within the small print of the wider terms and conditions. So I don't think the terms 
were unfair to Mr G. 
I also think the terms and conditions are clear that NS&I can amend them when they choose 
to - provided they meet their obligations. And I think its likely Mr G would've been aware of 
this as he'd already agreed to them several times before. As I mentioned above, Ive seen 
that NS&I sent Mr G notification of the changes in mid-April, which was more than the 
minimum 30 days they needed to give him, and a further reminder in early May, which was 
then followed by a further 30 day cooling-off period. So I don't think the terms were unfair to 
Mr G. And I'm satisfied he was given sufficient notice about the impending changes, so he 
could make a decision about what to do next - before his money was restricted.
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Mr G, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information thats been provided. I understand why Mr G feels strongly 
about whats happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I dont 
think NS&I have treated him unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman