DRN-2645891
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has declined her 
landlord insurance claim for damage caused to her tenanted property by vandalism.
What happened
In mid-August 2020 Mrs P contacted LV to notify it of a claim she wanted to make under her 
policy. Shed been alerted by the police that there was a cannabis farm in her property and 
that thered been an issue with the electricity supply thatd led the utility company to dig up 
the road in order to reconnect the power supply to the property. Mrs P told LV that the power 
company was charging her to do so. 
LV agreed to consider the claim under the vandalism peril subject to the conditions 
applicable to such claims being satisfied. It advised Mrs Ps representative that loss or 
damage caused by vandalism wasnt covered if General condition 5, relating to background 
checks that needed to be made on tenants, wasnt met. It asked Mrs Ps representative to 
forward confirmation that the necessary checks had been carried out on the tenants after 
which it would be in a position to settle the claim less the policy excess. 
About three months later LV noted that no evidence had been received so it chased Mrs P. 
She sent it a passport photograph of the tenant and a bank statement. As the evidence 
Mrs P had provided didnt meet the policy conditions, LV told her that it was currently unable 
to progress the claim. 
Mrs Ps representative complained to LV on her behalf. It looked into her complaint but didnt 
change its mind about her claim. Unhappy with the outcome of LVs investigation, Mrs P 
complained to this service. Our investigator looked into her complaint but didnt recommend 
that it was upheld. He thought that LV hadnt unfairly or unreasonably declined the claim.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Mrs P, I dont think her complaint should be 
upheld; Ill explain why.  
LV confirmed that the damage sustained by Mrs Ps property would be covered by the 
vandalism peril in the policy providing a relevant condition  General condition 5 - was 
complied with. The policy says: Well provide the following cover for any loss or damage 
for the causes below6. Vandalism including:B. loss or damage resulting from the 
manufacture, cultivation, harvest or processing by other method drugs classed as a 
controlled substance
Next to each peril (and also stated in the renewal document) is a column setting out what 
damage isnt covered by the peril. Alongside the vandalism peril it says: Whats not 
coveredloss or damage caused by your tenant or any other occupant if you have not met 
General condition 5, relating to background checks on your tenants;
General condition 5, Claims for vandalism and theft says: 
We wont cover vandalism or theft caused by your tenants unless you, or any person in
charge of your property, have obtained the following checks on tenants prior to allowing
them to move in:
1. Written references from a current employer, former landlord or guarantor
2. Formal photo ID such as a driving licence or passport
3. A satisfactory credit check from a licensed credit reference agency
We may ask you to provide evidence that these background checks have been completed
in the event of a claim.
I can see when asked by LV to provide proof of the necessary checks required under the 
policy terms, that Mrs P provided a copy of the tenants passport (including his photograph) 
and a copy of his bank statement. Unfortunately for Mrs P, she didnt provide a written 
reference from a current employer, former landlord or guarantor or a credit check from a 
licensed credit agency. Because she hadnt obtained the required references, LV declined 
Mrs Ps claim. 
I think that General condition 5 is clearly drafted. And the need to comply with it in order to 
have a vandalism (or theft) claim covered, is featured clearly in both the renewal document 
and the policy terms. I know Mrs P has said that she did similar checks as a tenant reference 
but unfortunately those checks (identity, solvency and employment status) arent the same 
as those required by LV.
Consequently, I cant fairly say that LV unreasonably declined Mrs Ps claim. LV said that if 
the relevant background checks were obtained then historic problems associated with the 
tenant may have come to light. If they had, the loss could have been avoided. If the 
references were obtained and no issues were identified with the tenant then the claim 
wouldve been covered. But as the references were a requirement for vandalism claims to be 
accepted and as Mrs Ps failure to obtain them was material to the loss she suffered, I dont 
think LV has unfairly declined to meet Mrs Ps claim. It follows that I cant reasonably require 
LV to do any more and uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 
21 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman