DRN-2753323
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has treated her following 
the sale of her property in possession. Her complaint was broken down into three points by 
our investigator which are:
It delayed in applying a refund to reduce the shortfall balance which impacted her credit 
file.
It passed her debt to Moorcroft Debt Recovery Service without giving her the opportunity 
to repay the arrears.
It never made her aware of how much her house sold for and didnt send her a closing 
statement.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Delay in applying a refund to reduce the shortfall balance
In May 2020 Halifax completed a review about a delay in starting legal proceedings and 
concluded it should have taken possession of Ms Hs property in December 2015 rather than 
in June 2017.
The period between December 2016 and June 2017 had already been dealt with as part of a 
previous complaint this service considered in 2018. The outcome of that complaint was that 
Halifax reduced the shortfall debt by £2,830 from £8,694 to £5,864, and it had confirmed that 
to Ms H in July 2018.
In May 2020 Halifax said it would reduce the shortfall debt by a further £4,294 (it said that 
would be applied to the shortfall in 28 days) but unfortunately it didnt process that until 
July 2020. Following a complaint from Ms H it apologised for the delay and paid her £100 
compensation (plus £24 to cover her call costs).
Whilst it is clear there was a brief delay in the shortfall being reduced, I dont think the size of 
the shortfall for that period would have impacted Ms Hs credit file to any degree that would 
mean additional redress is due. Ms H hasnt told us of any credit applications that she made 
in that two-month period that were declined solely because of the fact the outstanding 
shortfall debt was showing as £4,294 higher than it should have been.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Halifax fairly resolved this part of the complaint 
when it looked at matters as the shortfall was reduced, an apology was made and £124 
compensation was paid to Ms H. 
Debt passed to Moorcroft Debt Recovery Service and Ms H not having the opportunity 
to pay the shortfall
As our investigator explained, the debt hasnt been passed to Moorcroft. The debt is still with 
Halifax, it just uses Moorcroft to administer that on its behalf.
Whilst the name wasnt mentioned, the use of a third-party administrator was explained to 
Ms H in 2018. Halifaxs letter of 24 July 2018 (as part of the resolution of the previous 
complaint) says For a more accurate redemption figure, you may wish to contact the 
administrator of the shortfall.
Ms H has said shes never been told how much she owed so has been denied the 
opportunity to pay it off, but thats not the case. I can see in the 2018 complaint we dealt with 
our adjudicator told Ms H by email in May 2018 that the original shortfall of £8,694 had been 
reduced by £2,830. Ms H replied to that email. Halifax then wrote the letter Ive referenced 
above in July 2018 and in that it explained those two figures and then said Ms Hs shortfall 
should be around £5,864. So Im satisfied Ms H has been aware of the size of the shortfall 
since at least May 2018.
I understand Moorcroft didnt make contact with Ms H, and it has explained that is because it 
was under the mistaken belief that she was still in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
(IVA) which meant it shouldnt chase her for the money owed. Ms H has said she didnt 
know how she could pay the money and said shed called and visited a branch. 
Halifax has provided a copy of its contact notes and theres nothing to show any calls from 
Ms H in which she said she wanted to pay the shortfall and requested the information she 
needed to do so. As our investigator explained, we cant know what was said and discussed 
in branch. 
About the conversation in branch, Ms H said Its the branch that I handed the keys back to, I 
have since been in and asked to speak with someone there but told that if the house was 
being had been repossessed it wasnt anything to do with me anymore. I cant know exactly 
what Ms H asked, but that answer doesnt seem likely to have been given to a direct 
question from Ms H along the lines of My house was sold in possession and I need to pay 
the shortfall amount that I still owe, how can I do that? Asking general questions about the 
repossession and sale, isnt the same as asking how the shortfall can be paid.
Theres nothing that has been provided by either Halifax or Ms H that indicates she asked 
how she could repay the shortfall amount and that Halifax refused to provide her with that 
information. If Ms H wanted to repay the shortfall I would have expected her  in 2018 - to 
have asked either our adjudicator or the Halifax complaints handler how to do so. If asked 
our adjudicator could have obtained that information for Ms H, alternatively full contact 
details for the complaint handler was given in Halifaxs letter in July 2018 so Ms H could 
have obtained the information from him directly.When considering any complaint like this, as Ms H is the one bringing the complaint against 
Halifax, to uphold the complaint Ms Hs version (in that she asked how to pay her shortfall 
and she was told they cant discuss it and it was nothing to do with her) needs to be more 
likely than Halifaxs version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say 
Ms Hs version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold this 
part of her complaint.
It is clear there was confusion over whether or not Ms H was in an IVA which led to 
Moorcroft not making contact with her when it should, but equally Ms H had the contact 
details for the people who had dealt with her complaints at Halifax that she could have 
contacted directly to ask for this information. That said, Halifax has accepted that it should 
have contacted Ms H about the shortfall so she had the opportunity to put a payment plan in 
place, and for that it has agreed to pay a further £126 in compensation (on top of the £124 it 
paid). 
Having considered everything Im satisfied that is a fair resolution to this part of the 
complaint as contact should have been made by Moorcroft and/or Halifax about the shortfall, 
but I dont think it would have made a difference to the situation were now in. I say that 
because Ms H has admitted shes been aware of the shortfall throughout and she could 
have asked for details of how to pay it in 2018 when we dealt with her previous complaint. I 
see no reason to believe if shed asked for that information in 2018, either via our adjudicator 
or directly from the Halifax complaints handler, that she would have been refused it.
It didnt tell her how much her house sold for and didnt send her a closing statement
This issue was answered as part of Ms Hs previous complaint, with our adjudicator telling 
Ms H by email in May 2018:
There isn't any regulatory requirement for the lender to send you this information be it in a 
statement or anything else. It will let you know what the balance you owe it is, but it won't 
necessarily break down that payment in the way that you've asked for
Halifax then sent Ms H the letter in July 2018 that Ive mentioned previously. If that didnt 
give Ms H all the information she wanted then she was free to contact the Halifax complaints 
handler that wrote the letter to request more information.
Information about how much Ms Hs property was sold for has been freely available since 
the sale took place in 2017. That information was available on the free Land Registry 
website, as well as various free property websites such as Rightmove and Zoopla. The 
property was sold in September 2017 and Ms H has said shes seen the shortfall amount on 
her credit file ever since.
Other matters
I can see there has been some confusion about the information that should be recorded on 
Ms Hs credit file. It was agreed as part of the 2018 complaint that the default date would be 
set as December 2016. If the default date is showing any later than that then Ms H should let 
Halifax or our investigator know. My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay the 
further £126 compensation (so making a total of £250) to Ms H if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman