DRN-2195072
The complaint
Mr E complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
 Mr E took three instalment loans between March 2018 and September 2018. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £250 29/03/2018 15/08/2018
2 £400 22/08/2018 08/09/2018
3 £590 13/09/2018 *
*I understand there is an outstanding balance to be paid for loan 3. Mr Lender has told us 
that it has worked with Mr E to set up an affordable repayment plan for this loan and I can 
see this in the statement of account that Mr Lender has provided.  
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have granted any of the instalment loans. She 
thought that from what she could see it was reasonable to say the loans could be 
sustainably repaid by Mr E. 
Mr E disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. Mr E feels his loans shouldnt have been 
lent. In summary, he has said that:
further checks shouldve been completed before lending;
at the time Mr E had multiple payday loans and guarantor loans which he was 
struggling to repay; and 
he was gambling. 
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr E could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Es 
income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include: 
Mr E having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr E having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay his instalment 
loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr E was able 
to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 (£250) was due to be repaid through six monthly instalments, with a highest 
repayment of around £88. Mr E declared an income of £1,550 and monthly expenditure for 
housing, loans (including short term loans) and other commitments of £1,128. Mr Lender 
also carried out a credit check which didnt seem to reveal any significant adverse 
information.  
Loan 2 (£400) was lent a week after loan 1 was repaid and was due to be repaid over four 
instalments, the highest being around £167. At this time Mr E declared similar income 
(£1,500) and expenses (£1,115). 
Considering the level of lending and it being early in the lending relationship, I think the 
checks for these two loans went far enough. And based on the checks Mr Lender completed 
Im satisfied that each loan wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable. 
loan 3
I appreciate Mr E didnt pay the first scheduled repayment of both principal and interest for 
loans 1 or 2, choosing to only repay the interest due (which was a facility available under the 
credit agreements). From what I can see though both loans were paid early, and Mr E didnt 
default on the loans or pay any late fees. So, whilst I appreciate that Mr E chose to only repay the interest at the beginning of each 
loans repayment cycle, I dont think this was particularly concerning or wouldve suggested 
to Mr Lender that he wouldnt be able to repay loan 3s repayments sustainably as a result. 
Overall, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to indicate that Mr Lender ought to have built 
up a more detailed picture of Mr Es finances for loan 3. As Ive said, his repayment history 
for the first two loans wasnt particularly concerning and it was still relatively early in the 
lending relationship. Mr Lender had also asked Mr E about his other loans (including short-
term loans) so hed been given the opportunity to declare expenses for his short-term loans 
and guarantor loans when loan 3 was lent. 
For loan 3 (£590) Mr E declared an income of £1,500 and overall expenses of £1,020. So, I 
think the six instalments (with a highest repayment of £208) wouldve seemed affordable and 
sustainable. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr E was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved 
difficult. And I accept that Mr Es full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in 
either the information he provided, or the other information Mr Lender obtained from its credit 
checks. And it might be that Mr Es actual financial position may well have been apparent if 
further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.  
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on 
what Mr Lender knew about Mr E, that meant it needed to verify the information. So, I dont 
think that it could or should have known that Mr E was having financial difficulties at the time. 
It is of course possible that, had Mr E continued to borrow from Mr Lender, then it may have 
needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved asking 
for evidence of his financial position. But considering Mr E took three loans and these 
appeared affordable, I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to have provided them. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about these loans. I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Mr E. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings 
that I have.
I understand Mr Lender has already set up an affordable repayment plan for Mr E in 
connection with loan 3s outstanding balance. Id remind Mr Lender that it should continue to 
treat Mr E fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman