DRN-1649462
The complaint
Mr P complains that Grove & Dean Ltd didnt set up his motor insurance policy on an agreed 
value basis.
What happened
Mr P took out a policy through Grove & Dean. His classic car was later stolen, and the 
insurer offered him a settlement based on the cars market value. But Mr P was unhappy as 
he thought the policy was set up as an agreed value policy. Grove & Dean said Mr P had 
never requested this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr P 
had input the cars value on the online comparison site as £20,000. But he didnt think Mr P 
had asked for an agreed value policy when he contacted Grove & Dean. He also thought 
Grove & Dean had made it clear in the policy documents that the policy was based on the 
cars market value, not its agreed value. 
Mr P said Grove & Dean had misled him and it had told him that hed get the full £20,000 in 
the case of the cars theft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said he thought hed taken out an agreed value policy for his classic car. I can 
understand that hed want to make sure that his car was fully insured. So Ive looked at what 
happened when he first took out his policy through Grove & Dean. 
Mr P initially obtained a quote for a policy though an online comparison site. He inputted the 
cars value as £20,000. I think this is standard in any online application, but it doesnt mean 
that the insurer will pay that amount in the case of the cars total loss. He was then provided 
with a warning that the insurer would pay the cars market value unless a value was agreed. 
Mr P then called Grove & Dean to buy the policy. In this call Mr P didnt request an agreed 
value policy. The policy documents were then sent to Mr P. These included, on page 2 under 
Important Information, a statement that the policy was based on the cars market value and 
specifically wasnt agreed value. Mr P was asked to check this information to ensure that the 
policy met his needs. But I cant see that he told Grove & Dean then that he wanted an 
agreed value policy. 
Mr P has explained to us the process for obtaining an agreed value policy. So I think he 
should have been aware that this process hadnt been followed for the policy he obtained 
through Grove & Dean. And so I think he should have been reasonably aware that the policy 
wasnt based on agreed value terms. 
Mr P said Grove & Dean later told him that he would be paid the cars full value. Ive seen an 
email provided by Mr P from Grove & Deans renewals agent. It says that the value on the 
policy is £20,000. But this doesnt mean that this is the agreed value, just the valuation of the 
car Mr P provided for the policy. Mr P wanted us to listen to a phone call made with the 
agent before this email was sent. But I dont think this is relevant as I have to consider what 
Mr P requested when he first took out his policy. 
So I havent seen any evidence that Mr P asked for a policy to be set up on agreed value 
terms. Ive seen that Grove & Dean made it clear that the policy was for the cars market 
value, not agreed value. So I dont think it misled Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman