DRN-4470965
The complaint
Mr S complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent irresponsibly 
when it approved a £2,000 loan in his name. 
What happened
On 17 March 2022 Mr S applied for a loan of £2,000 with Likely Loans. In his application, Mr 
S said he was employed full time with an income of £49,500 a year. Mr S also said he was 
living with family. Likely Loans says it carried out a credit search and found unsecured debts 
totalling around £1,100 and defaulted debts totalling around £5,246. Likely Loans says it 
found defaults on Mr S credit file that were 29 months old and CCJ information that was 34 
months old. Likely Loans says it used a credit card payment figure of £40 a month and 
default repayments of £157. 
In addition to the information included in the application, Likely Loans used outgoings figures 
for Mr S housing costs and living expenses as well as a £50 buffer. Likely Loans says that 
based on the information provided in Mr S application and credit file it found the loan was 
affordable. But Likely Loans has explained it asked Mr S to supply a copy of his most recent 
payslip to verify his income. A copy was provided to Likely Loans which went on to approve 
Mr S loan application. The funds were released to Mr S. 
Loan payments were maintained until January 2023. From that point, Mr S loan fell into 
arrears. Mr S went on to raise a complaint that Likely Loans had lent irresponsibly and it 
issued a final response on 23 March 2023. Likely Loans said it had carried out reasonable 
affordability checks and approved Mr S loan in line with its lending criteria. Likely Loans 
didnt uphold Mr S complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S case. They thought Likely Loans had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks before deciding to approve Mr S loan application 
and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr S asked to appeal and said he owed around £22,000 at 
the time of his application including £15,000 for a hire purchase agreement. Mr S added he 
had defaults and CCJs on his credit file when he applied as well as credit cards with a 
balance of around £3,500. As Mr S asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
In this case, Likely Loans obtained information from Mr S about his income and 
circumstances provided in the application he completed. In addition, Likely Loans carried out 
a credit search. In response to the investigator, Mr S said he had loans of around £22,000, 
including a hire purchase agreement for £15,000. 
Ive looked at a copy of Mr S credit file to see whether theres evidence to support what Mr S 
says. I can see that in February and March 2022 Mr S opened a number of credit accounts, 
including two credit cards and the hire purchase agreement hes told us about. I note Mr S 
credit file confirms the hire purchase agreement was opened on 26 March 2022 which is 
over a week after he applied to Likely Loans for the loan in question. I should add that 
theres normally a delay in information about new accounts being recorded on a consumers 
credit file. So whilst some of the applications Mr S made mayve slightly predated his Likely 
Loans application, Im satisfied its more likely than not they werent showing on his credit file 
when he applied. 
Mr S has also pointed out he had defaults and CCJ information on his credit file when he 
applied. I accept thats the case but Likely Loans has shown it was aware of Mr S adverse 
credit and took the costs of servicing those debts into account when considering his 
application. Likely Loans confirms its lending criteria allows some levels of adverse credit 
and that Mr S application was correctly approved. Im satisfied Likely Loans was aware of 
Mr S adverse credit and factored it in when considering his application.
Likely Loans has explained that it wanted to verify Mr S income before proceeding with the 
loan application so asked him to provide a copy of his most recent payslip. The loan was 
only approved once Mr S supplied evidence that verified his income of £49,500. 
Likely Loans took all the information available into account and obtained a disposable 
income figure of £1,668.06 once Mr S existing commitments were met and his new loan 
payment was covered. Overall, Im satisfied Likely Loans carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr S loan application. And Im satisfied the 
information Likely Loans obtained indicated the repayments were sustainable for Mr S. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent been persuaded Likely Loans lent irresponsibly or 
treated him unfairly when it approved his loan application in March 2022. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman