DRN-1106289
 
The complaint
Mrs I and Mr K complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
What happened
Mrs I and Mr K said they didnt need PPI as they had employee benefits and savings to 
cover their mortgage repayments. They added they would have declined PPI if they knew it 
was optional and if they had been given more information about it. The PPI covered Mr K for 
unemployment only.
Our adjudicator rejected the complaint. Mrs I and Mr K disagreed with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
As the policy only covered Mr K, I will sometimes only refer to him, but I will refer to Mrs I 
and Mr K where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Is and Mr Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether it was made clear to them that the policy was an optional product. 
Nationwide said the mortgage application form was completed by one of their 
representatives with Mrs I and Mr K seated with them. I can see on the form there is a 
sentence which says: We would like the following protection for our mortgage payments. 
Below that, they chose to have PPI to cover Mr K only for unemployment cover and they 
declined other offers. As the policy seemed to be tailored for their particular needs, I think 
they were probably aware the policy was optional, they chose to have it, and I think they 
could have declined PPI to the Nationwide representative. So I dont think this is a reason to 
uphold the complaint.
Nationwide told us this was a non- advised sale, so it didnt have to check if the policy was 
suitable for them. Mrs I and Mr K couldnt remember if it was an advised sale, but this 
doesnt matter as I think the PPI policy was suitable for their needs anyway. I say this 
because Mr K was eligible to buy PPI, it seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt 
affected by the main things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions).
I also looked at their finances at the time to see if they would have found the policy useful. I 
noted Mrs I and Mr K said they had savings and good employee benefits. But the PPI could 
have paid out for a maximum of 12 months on a successful claim, leaving their employee 
benefits and savings for other expenses. So I think this would have been a useful benefit for 
them because Mrs I and Mr K borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. I think having the security that the mortgage 
repayments would be paid if Mr K was unemployed would have been important to them. So I 
do think they could have found the PPI policy useful.
Nationwide should have given Mrs I and Mr K enough information which was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make their own decision about it.
Nationwide said it gave Mrs I and Mr K a PPI leaflet which explained what PPI was, its cost 
and the benefits of it. It may also be that something was said during the meeting about the 
cost and benefits of the policy, and looking at everything Ive been given, its possible that 
information wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But having decided Mrs I and Mr K chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover in case Mr K became unemployed. And  for the reasons Ive explained above 
- it looks like the policy was affordable and would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. So I dont think more detailed cost and benefits information would have put 
them off from buying PPI.
I also noted Mr K wasnt affected by the exclusions in the PPI policy - so I dont think he 
would have changed his mind about PPI if hed got more detailed information about them. 
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional, I think it could have 
been of benefit to them and I think they were given enough information about the PPI to 
make a decision about it. So I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman