DRN-3118993
The complaint
Mrs B, Mr N and Mr Ns complaint is about BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA). Theyre 
unhappy that:
BUPA continued to ask for the full monthly premium from March 2020 to June 2020 
when the UK was faced with a lockdown because of Covid-19. They say BUPA 
wasnt providing the full level of service at this time and, as a result, they would like a 
refund for the three months they didnt receive any service. And, from June 2020, 
they wanted to be refunded for the reduced service BUPA was offering
What happened
Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N have a private medical insurance policy. BUPA is the underwriter. 
Their annual policy period runs from September to August each year.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all
non-essential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from 
Covid-19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the 
NHS.
In June 2020, Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N complained to BUPA that they continued to pay a full 
premium on the policy despite there being no service provided as per their policy terms. 
BUPA responded on 26 June 2020 and said in light of Covid-19, UK independent hospitals 
were offering their support to the NHS to treat affected patients. It said while this was 
happening, a considerable amount of planned or non-urgent treatment in both the NHS and 
private sectors had been postponed to allow and prioritise patients with Covid-19 to be 
treated urgently. BUPA also said it didnt know the real impact of the pandemic and how it 
would affect its customers. But by mid-June 2020, momentum had regained, and treatment 
could be re-booked. In the meantime, BUPA said its customers had access to remote 
services and advice from nurses and affiliate services. It said it had committed to passing 
back any exceptional benefit that arose from Covid-19 to its customers and they would be 
informed of an appropriate rebate once the full impact was known. It said it had kept its 
customers informed on any updates. 
In July 2020, Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N received a renewal notice for the following year which 
showed that there was an increase in the premium. They were unhappy about this because 
they still hadnt heard of the rebate that BUPA had promised its customers. 
Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it 
and said she couldnt look into the issue about the rebate or the increase in premium at the 
policy renewal date as this didnt form part of this complaint. She explained that they would 
need to first make a complaint to BUPA in relation to this. 
With regards to paying a full premium while limited services were available to them, our 
investigator said while hospital treatment was restricted to the most urgent cases from March 
2020 to June 2020, critical care remained largely unaffected. She thought Mrs B, Mr N and 
Mr N still benefitted from the policy had they needed to use BUPA and any eligible claim 
would have still been funded by BUPA at a later date. She didnt think it was reasonable 
therefore to expect BUPA to have paid those claims as well as provide a refund.
Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N disagreed with the investigator. So the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
I need to make it clear that BUPA hasnt had a chance to look into the issue about the 
amount of rebate offered or about the increase in premium at renewal since Mrs B, Mr N and 
Mr N brought their complaint to this service. So, I wont be looking into these points within 
this decision. My understanding is that theyve got in touch with BUPA about these 
separately and directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N that while Ive summarised their detailed 
response to our investigator, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. In making 
my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point theyve raised, and our 
rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N s complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their 
contract with BUPA as well as other relevant considerations such as law and industry 
guidance.
Should BUPA reduce the premium paid?
The terms and conditions of Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N s policy say their plan is for one year and 
that premiums must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies 
are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the 
contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk 
during that time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy.
I understand why they would seek to request a refund in premiums due to a reduced level of 
service. But, this isnt how an insurance policy works. A policyholder agrees to pay a 
premium for a policy that covers them for a year and as I said above, even if no successful 
claims have been made, the insurer is entitled to retain that benefit. From the information 
available, I can see that even during the height of the pandemic between March 2020 to 
June 2020, BUPA did provide some level of service and where possible, arranged remote 
services to its members. It also continued to offer critical care, for example to cancer 
patients, and this remained for the most part unaffected even during this period. 
That said, due to the unprecedented and unforeseen circumstances, I understand BUPA 
committed to offering a rebate to policyholders in the event that there was a reduction in 
claims being made. It decided to do this so as not to profit from Covid-19. It commissioned a 
third party to carry out an independent review to oversee the rebate calculation. Once the 
review had taken place, BUPA committed to passing back any difference to its members. I appreciate Mrs B, Mr N and Mr Ns comments that they became aware of the issue from a 
friend who couldnt have an operation for three months, and who was in unbearable pain. 
This was how they came to realise that had they or their family been in such a situation, they 
probably would not have received the treatment they were paying for. I understand their 
concern. However, while its difficult to hear about someone going through a challenging 
situation, this is something that didnt directly affect Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N. They hadnt 
directly been affected by the service provided by BUPA and Im therefore unable to comment 
further on this situation. 
Overall, while I acknowledge BUPA couldnt offer the full service to its customers, I dont 
think this was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied that it had to assess 
the full impact of Covid-19 in the context of claims being made before it could make further 
decisions on the effect on refunding premiums. BUPA was entitled to carry on taking the 
premiums during this time and the restrictions on services was something that was beyond 
its control. Im not persuaded that the policy was unusable and I think it was fair and 
reasonable for BUPA to wait for an independent review before making a decision on the 
amount of rebate that would be made to Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N. They continued to benefit 
from the policy albeit at a reduced level during March to June 2020. But had they been 
eligible for treatment, at a later stage, this would have been funded by BUPA.
I appreciate the months during the UK national lockdown must have been a very difficult and
challenging period for Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N, but I dont think BUPA has done anything 
wrong which it needs to put right.
Conclusion
Taking everything into account and in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded
BUPA treated Mrs B, Mr N and Mr N unfairly. It follows that I wont be asking BUPA to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs B, Mr N, and Mr Ns complaint against 
BUPA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Mr N and 
Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman