DRN-3122141
The complaint
Mr W says he hasnt received fair compensation from Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) for 
the unsuitable advice he received to transfer his deferred occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) benefits into a personal pension.
Mr W is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
FR says Mr W received advice from Phoenix (trading as Britannic Assurance) in 1989 to 
transfer his deferred OPS benefits into a personal pension plan. He was 41 at the time 
and had accrued 13 years of qualifying service up until 1987.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), 
established an industry-wide review of particular pension business carried out by 
authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the 
"Pensions Review". Consumers were invited to have a review  the intention being to 
avoid the need for them to bring complaints later about what had happened.
Phoenix wrote to Mr W and offered him a review of his pension transfer. He agreed and the 
exercise took place in 1999. It wrote to him in December of that year with the results of the 
review which compared the benefits of his OPS with those projected to be delivered by his 
personal pension plan. The letter set out the analysis it had undertaken and concluded in 
the following terms:
We have  now completed  the review  of the transfer  in December  1989  from your 
company  pension  schemeto  your personal  pension  policy,  from which  you are now 
receiving  a pension.  We have  compared  the value  of the benefits  which  we understand  
would  have  been  payable  under  the Mineworkers  Pension  Scheme  with the value  of 
the benefits  being  paid by our policy.  We have  concluded  from this comparison  that 
you have  suffered  a financial  loss as a result  of the transfer.  Overall, you are £27614 
worse off as at 1 November 1999
As Phoenix noted, Mr W had started to take benefits from his personal pension early. So, to 
put matters right it said:
We propose to increase the benefits provided by your personal pension. Wherever possible, 
we have tried to match the type of benefits you would have received from the [OPS]. The 
offer is as follows:
-An additional pension of £1190 per annum, payable monthly in advance from 1 
November 1999. This pension will increase each year by 3%. Instalments which 
would have been made between 1 November 1999 and the date on which our offer is 
accepted will be paid in the form of a lump sum with interest added as appropriate.
-On your death a pension equal to 67% of the additional pension in payment to you at 
that time will become payable to your surviving spouse.
The figures quoted above are in addition to the pension you are already receiving.
Mr W signed a form on 1 February 2000 accepting Phoenixs offer in full and final settlement 
of the matter. And redress was paid in accordance with the agreement.
On 2 July 2003 Phoenix wrote to Mr W about his personal pension again. It informed him its 
appointed actuary had advised that it should make some changes to the way it valued 
personal pension funds for the purposes of working out redress. This meant it would make a 
small increase in his annual pension of around £68 and pay him an associated lump sum.
In September 2019 FR complained to Phoenix on Mr Ws behalf. It said the original 
advice to transfer his OPS benefits had been unsuitable and that the redress it had 
subsequently provided had been inadequate.
FR also said this Service would have to consider the merits of Phoenixs advice to Mr W to 
transfer out of his OPS, even though it had already been subject to the Pensions Review. 
And that Phoenix should use the latest redress guidelines issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to make sure he was put back into the position hed have been in had he 
not transferred his benefits in 1989.
Phoenixs response to the complaint was that the original advice for Mr W to transfer his 
OPS had already been reviewed and the matter settled through the Pension Review 
process carried out in 1999.
FR referred Mr Ws complaint to this Service. The Investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
It disagreed with his findings and made the following specific arguments, that:
1. A policy charge assumption of zero has been used for the personal pension. This has 
overstated the value of the personal pension and resulted in a redress amount lower than it 
should have been
2. There is no evidence of any attempt to determine if reinstatement into the DB scheme was 
an option. Accordingly, as per the FCA's 2017 guidance, it is that guidance that should now 
be used to determine appropriate redress. The new calculation will take into account 
relatively small amount of redress [Mr W] has been paid to date
So, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about events and gaps in what we know, my role is 
to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats 
most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why, focussing on the main arguments 
made by FR in bringing his case.
The Pension ReviewThe Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to 
rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as far as reasonably possible 
into the position they wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The 
financial business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be 
reinstated into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial 
business needed to assess the financial loss and pay a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were 
used in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the 
pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement.
We know now that often the assumed growth rates used in the review calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid 
following the Pension Review plus the existing value of a pension would be high enough to 
match the OPS benefits at retirement, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
However, this Service wouldnt ask a firm to re-calculate a consumers loss because the 
compensation previously paid didnt make up for what their former pensions wouldve been 
worth now. That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review. So, while FR 
might be correct the redress Mr W accepted hasnt put him in the same position he 
wouldve been in but for the transfer of his pension, that doesnt mean I would require 
reassessment of the compensation hes received.
I recognise that many people like Mr W will feel this is unfair. But market conditions that 
werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken isnt a reason for 
this Service to require settlements made under that process to be undone and 
recalculations made.
The Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a line under the 
matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling 
had been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
The new FCA guidance for reviewing pension transfers
In 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This was designed for 
complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after 3 August 
2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been dealt with in full and 
final settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would 
be excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said 
some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where 
the circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
FR says that the review carried out by Phoenix in 1999 wasnt done correctly because 
assumptions about the charges on his personal pension werent correct. And because 
theres no evidence to show it investigated whether reinstatement into his original pension 
was possible. It says this means Phoenixs review was invalid and so the redress due to 
Mr W should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.Phoenixs position was that it had already settled the matter in respect of the unsuitable 
advice as part of the Pension Review, which it had carried out according to the 
requirements of the regulator at the time.
I think its helpful at this point to set out this Services usual approach when errors have 
been found in Pension Review calculations. For example, where an incorrect date of birth, 
sex, marital status, pension transfer value has been used. In these circumstances I would 
normally direct the business involved to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, 
not now).
This is because the Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made 
and accepted in good faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, 
the re- calculation should be done using the same effective date as the original 
calculation.
Phoenixs treatment of charges on Mr Ws personal pension in its review calculations
FR said Phoenix didnt deal properly with the charges associated with Mr Ws personal 
pension plan in the review calculations  it said charges had been assumed as zero and 
that this had a significant impact on the redress paid.
Phoenix has confirmed that the actuary it commissioned to carry out the calculations for 
the review of his pension dealt with the charges on his personal pension according to the 
regulatory requirements.
In responding to this Service, it said:
We have reviewed the key features of [Mr Ws personal pension plan] and can confirm that 
other than a one-off charge at the initiation of the policy, there were no other policy 
deductions. However, we can also confirm that our review calculations did include a 1% 
AMC.
Phoenix provided some workings from its pension review exercise which did show it had 
assumed annual fund management charges would be 1%. And I can see how this and an 
allowance for annuity expenses were deducted from the value derived for Mr Ws personal 
pension, for the purposes of the calculation.
FR pointed to the fact that Phoenix made an adjustment to Mr Ws redress in 2003, when it 
increased his annual pension by a small amount following a review of its methodology by an 
actuary. It says this shows Phoenix got its calculations wrong in 1999. While thats clearly 
true, I note that the adjustment was small. 
Its also of note that Mr Ws position has effectively been reviewed twice. And in the absence 
of evidence to the contrary, this arguably provides more assurance that his transfer has 
been looked at properly and redressed appropriately given the requirements of the time.
This Service isnt a checking service, we dont employ actuaries to check Pension Review 
calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have  and endeavoured to 
understand what Phoenix and its actuaries did at the time and why. And Ive then 
compared that with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, the calculation appears in line 
with the relevant guidelines set out under the Pension Review. Ive not identified anything that was obviously wrong with the review Phoenix conducted for 
Mr Ws transfer of OPS benefits. Neither has FR evidenced any such problem. So, I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to require Phoenix to look at this matter again.
Reinstatement to Mr Ws original OPS
FR has said that theres no evidence Phoenix had checked, as it was required to, 
whether reinstatement into Mr Ws OPS was possible. While FR is correct, the relevant 
circumstances show why this was the case. Phoenix said:
As mentioned previously, there is no evidence to suggest the ceding scheme was 
approached with a view to reinstatement of this member. The reason for this is that he 
began drawing his benefits with effect from 1/10/98.
vesting took place before the effective date of the review calculation of 1/11/99. It can 
also be seen from the pack that the initial contact with the policyholder notifying him of the 
review was not issued until after he had started drawing benefits either, so at no time after 
30/9/89 would he have been eligible to be considered for reinstatement.
The [OPS] administrators have confirmed that reinstatement was a possibility up until 
31/12/2006 however in order to reinstate they had to be a deferred member of the scheme 
who had not commenced taking their benefits (retired) at the reinstatement date. In the case 
of [Mr W]; although he was a deferred member, and had been since 25/1/87, he would not 
have qualified for reinstatement as he had commenced taking his benefits
So, I think its more likely than not Phoenix did what it was required to do.
In summary
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and Mr W agreed a full and final settlement 
in 1999 in respect of the unsuitable advice hed received. While the passage of time 
might suggest the compensation he agreed to doesnt match his actual loss, I havent 
seen anything which makes me think Phoenix Life Limited didnt act fairly or reasonably 
in conducting the review and settling matters in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman