DRN-3776369
The complaint
Mrs B complains about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. She says the advice 
was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Tenet Connect Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple Ill 
refer mainly to Tenet. 
What happened
Mrs B was a deferred member of the OPS, having accrued pension benefits between 1979  
1987 when she was with a previous employer.
She was written to by her OPS in July 2015. The scheme was offering deferred members 
like Mrs B the opportunity to consider transferring out of the scheme. This was accompanied 
by a time limited offer of an enhanced transfer value to the pension. The original cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mrs Bs OPS was around £77,000, however, if she took 
up the offer to transfer out, an enhancement of £7,750 was being made available to her. This 
took the CETV to a total of around £87,700. The normal retirement age (NRA) of this 
scheme was 60.
Also as a consequence of the enhanced CETV, regulated financial advice was being 
provided to Mrs B by Tenet and the cost was being met by the employer. 
Information gathered at the time of the advice, in 2015, was broadly as follows:
Mrs B was 57 years of age and married to Mr B, who was 59. They were both 
working but Mrs B was on medication for high blood pressure and Mr B had a heart 
condition which required medication. They owned and lived in a holiday park home 
worth around £80,000 and had no mortgage or other debts or liabilities. They had 
savings of £7,000.
Mrs B jointly owned a snack bar with Mr B and were classed as self-employees. The 
business generated around £24,000 per year which they shared. Mrs Bs intention 
was to continue working until her state pension age of 66. Mr B had a separate 
income of his own of around £6,000 per year from a pension.
At the age of 60 Mrs Bs OPS was estimated to pay £4,094 per year  or a reduced 
pension of £3,792 and a tax-free lump sum of £5,839. Mrs B was also able to retire 
from the OPS straightaway and receive a lower income and lump sum.
Mrs B also had another DB pension, with an NRA of 65. At 65 the estimated pension 
payable on this was £4,131 per year. This pension is the subject of a separate 
complaint. 
In October 2015, Tenet advised Mrs B to transfer out of her OPS. It said she had an 
aspiration to generate £44,000 to invest in her business, so the recommendation was as 
follows:
1. To transfer £48,000 to an annuity provider and take a tax-free cash sum of £12,000 
from this straightaway.
2. With the remaining sum in the above, she should purchase a joint-life, level annuity, 
with a 5-year guarantee period with the provider.
3. For the residual fund of £36,707, Tenet recommended a flexi-access drawdown with 
a large and well-known provider. She would take tax free cash from this of £9,177 
and also withdraw the remaining fund (£27,530) as a lump sum, subject to tax. Tenet 
said, that in total, all these things met Mrs Bs objective of achieving a £44,000 sum 
for her investment.
Mrs B now says she was given unsuitable advice by Tenet. The complaint has been referred 
to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we shouldnt 
uphold it. Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator. 
In September 2022, I issued a provisional decision (PD) setting out that I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. In this, I gave the parties an opportunity to submit any more 
information or evidence they wanted me to consider. Mrs B agreed with my decision. But 
Tenet still doesnt agree and it asked me to reconsider what Id said in my PD.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tenets actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tenet should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
pension was in Mrs Bs best interests. And I dont think it was, so Im upholding her 
complaint.
Financial Viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
A critical yield figure is essentially the average annual investment return that would be 
required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same 
annuity income as the DB scheme. In this case, the critical yield required to match Mrs Bs 
benefits at the age of 60 was 7.8% if she took a full pension and 5.3% if she took a tax-free 
cash element and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given was 3.1% per year for 2 
years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken all these figures into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mrs Bs attitude to risk, which was assessed by Tenet as the lowest, and also the term 
to retirement. There would be little point in Mrs B giving up the guarantees available to her 
through her OPS only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But 
here, given the lowest critical yield was 5.3%, I think Mrs B was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. Both the discount rate and the regulators lower projections 
were well below the critical yield figures.
So, when comparing whether transferring was suitable from a financial viability perspective, I 
think theres solid evidence that Mrs B leaving her OPS wasnt in her best interests. I 
consider the discount rate and the regulators standard projections to be realistic 
comparisons. These showed transferring out wasnt worthwhile. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer out was suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered, for example, that Tenet isnt really challenging 
whether Mrs B was going to be receiving lower overall benefits as a result of transferring out. 
It confoimed this in its reply to my PD. So, this complaint rests on whether, or to the extent, 
that Mrs B needed the £44,000 funding for her business shed mentioned when initially 
discussing her objectives and aspirations with the Tenet adviser.
Did Mrs B need to transfer out and what were the options?
I have noted that the Tenet adviser considered a number of different options for Mrs B when 
advising her about her OPS. I also dont have any doubt that Mrs B told Tenet she wanted to 
raise money to invest in her business, although I should clarify that this was investment in 
her current business, rather than to buy a new one, as implied in Tenets suitability report. These options were documented on Tenets Flexible Retirement Option (FRO) report of 29 
October 2015. This document said she wanted to draw a lump sum of £44,000 for the 
business investment. And it said she also agreed with its recommendation to purchase an 
annuity with the balance to provide a secure income that you can use to invest into your 
business whilst you continue to work and to supplement your other pension income in 
retirement. Ive also seen evidence in Tenets FRO report, describing that Mr and Mrs B 
confirmed that they enjoy a surplus income position which enables you to [reinvest] some of 
your profits into your business. 
In my view, these comments suggest two things from the outset. The first is that Mrs and Mr 
B already had an existing capacity to raise some funds to invest in the business. The second 
is that Mrs B, and indeed the adviser, recognised a need for an income from this pension in 
retirement. I address these issues later. 
However, ultimately the FRO report focussed on a number of options for Mrs B and her 
OPS, most of which were unsuitable options in my view. These ranged from doing nothing or 
taking early benefits from the OPS whilst still remaining inside the scheme  to utilising 
flexible drawdown or buying an annuity with the transferred funds. 
These options were mainly discounted by Tenet and not recommended to Mrs B for varying 
reasons. In relation to leaving the pension where it was, for instance, Tenet said this would 
not release the lump sum Mrs B wanted and that she also wouldnt be able to access the 
enhanced CETV portion. Other options were also discounted, such as buying an annuity 
with all the transferred funds or entering wholly into a drawdown arrangement. Again, not 
being able to access tax-free cash was described as a disadvantage for the former, and for 
the latter, risk and a low capacity for loss were cited as issues. 
In the end, the recommendation Tenet gave was for a combination of taking a joint-life level 
annuity and also entering into a flexi-drawdown arrangement. Tenet said this combination 
provided access to some tax-free (and taxed) cash which would amount to around £44,000 
(net). It would also provide a small retirement income of around £1750 with some spouse 
benefits still preserved if Mrs B died.
However, its important to remember here that in providing regulated financial advice, 
Tenets job wasnt simply to transact what Mrs B thought she wanted at the time. It had a 
responsibility to really understand her needs and provide advice which was in her best 
interests. 
I think Tenet failed to do this.
I say this because, in reality, Mrs B and Mr B only had pension provisions in place which 
would provide no more than a moderate retirement. Mrs Bs OPS could have provided an 
income of £4,094 per year from the age of 60. We also know her second DB pension (the 
subject of another complaint) could have paid her £4,131 per year from the age of 65. Mrs 
and Mr B were also due a state pension at the ages of 66, said at the time to be around 
£6,000 per year each. And Mr B already had a pension income of his own of around £6,000 
per year.
So, whilst these retirement funds, commencing as they did at ages 60, 65 and 66 
respectively may have been better than those enjoyed by some, they were by no means 
high incomes and of course, they were triggered at different ages. I also think its reasonable 
to bear in mind that both Mrs and Mr B had health conditions so I think their respective 
incomes for the future would have been something theyd want to factor into these 
discussions about Mrs Bs pension. I therefore think Mrs Bs OPS was of considerable importance to her as it played a significant 
part in her and Mr Bs overall financial assets for their retirement. As well as providing a 
guaranteed income, I note that there was a spouses pension benefit in the scheme of 60% 
and also a lump sum payment worth up to 5 years of the annual pension if Mrs B pre-
deceased Mr B whilst still a deferred member. In their circumstances, this was a very useful 
benefit to have.
In this context, I think Tenet should have been more carefully considering the benefits Mrs B 
had with this scheme and the important part it played in them having a reasonable 
retirement. Giving these benefits up by transferring out presented a real risk that their 
retirement benefits would be much reduced. And when also taking account of the regulators 
starting point on DB pension transfers  that they are probably unsuitable  Tenet should 
have considered more suitable options rather than recommending that she should transfer 
out.
Ive also not seen any comprehensive assessment of the actual need for borrowing the 
£44,000 in the first place. By this I mean that whilst Tenets advice was clearly predicated on 
her desire to realise this sum, Mrs B has told us that only a part of this investment in the 
business was actually required; it related to her meeting certain environmental standards. 
But this requirement wasnt urgent to the degree that transferring her pension to get this 
money was essential there and then. This particular aspect of investment also represented 
only a small proportion of the overall £44,000 she told Tenet about; the remaining majority of 
this sum was aspirational spending - basically a modernisation to the public areas and 
storage facilities. 
So, to summarise, I dont think Mrs B needed the £44,000 as was implied by Tenet at the 
time of the advice, and later, in its response to the complaint. Moreover, theres certainly no 
evidence in Tenets documentation showing that failure to invest this amount, or even a 
much lower figure, would result in the businesss closure, or a sudden reduction in the 
£24,000 annual income Mrs and Mr B derived from it. In short, having looked at all the point 
of advice documents weve been sent, Ive seen nothing that demonstrates that this 
borrowing was necessary to maintain Mrs and Mr Bs self-employed income from their 
business. Tenet simply hasnt evidenced this.
The FRO report goes on to say Mrs B preferred not to borrow money, but in my view, this 
needed to be investigated and discussed much more thoroughly by Tenet before any 
decision about using her pension to fund her business aspirations was made. An obvious 
option was to borrow money, most likely via a business loan. I think the merits of this should 
have been explored, including whether the interest could be a deductible business expense 
if used wholly and exclusively for business purposes. 
I therefore dont think the advice to transfer out of the OPS for this reason was suitable for 
Mrs B.
Mrs Bs retirement needs
By focusing on annuities in the eventual recommendation, I think this demonstrates that 
Tenet acknowledged Mrs B was someone who wanted the comfort of not only a known 
income, but one that could be partially passed to her husband if she died first. That Mrs B 
purchased a more expensive joint annuity which had a 50% spouses pension adds weight 
to this view.
We now know Mrs B began taking an income from this annuity only a few weeks after the 
transfer process was concluded. Tenet should have of course explained that accessing 
income from the annuity so early, at the age of 57, came with certain consequences, as waiting longer would have most likely fitted her circumstances and retirement income needs 
better. This is because Mrs B already had income from the business which was supported 
by Mr Bs independent income. There seems to me no clear rationale for activating the 
annuity income at that stage when she could have waited just a few short years and 
obtained a better annual income to support her retirement by using the OPS in the way it 
was designed. Initially, she would also have had to pay tax on the annuity income.
Was the transfer in Mrs Bs best interests?
So, what all this shows is that Mrs B didnt have a critical or urgent need to access cash in 
the way Tenet says she did. But even if her business investment aspirations were so strong, 
Mrs B could have achieved them by accessing either less money or doing so with a business 
loan. Accessing the £44,000 from her pension was not only unnecessary, it created a 
financial vulnerability for her and Mr Bs future retirement income. 
Tenet failed to comprehensively assess the impact this gap in her retirement income would 
bring, other than to say Mrs B didnt need so much retirement income. Yet, its 
recommendation in part did provide a small retirement income nonetheless. I think these 
things conflict with one another and so the recommendation didnt really make sense.
Mrs Bs scheme also already had all the main guarantees and benefits I think she wanted to 
have. The evidence is persuasive that she was concerned about entering retirement with not 
enough income and she said she wanted to retain some of the benefits such as a spouses 
pension. In my view, there was therefore no need to transfer out for this reason. 
I think the most suitable option was for Mrs B to remain in her OPS. Payable from the age of 
60, this was only a little over two years away for Mrs B, and the pension contained what she 
wanted and needed. By giving these up, she was reducing the overall benefits of her future 
retirement income. This was not adequately emphasised in the advice Tenet gave to her and 
it focussed too much on generating £44,000 without properly addressing the necessity, the 
consequences, or her retirement needs.
Tenets advice mentioned one further area of rationale for transferring out. This was the 
time-limited cash enhancement element.
I can certainly understand that the 10% enhancement to the CETV might have seemed an 
attractive prospect at the time. From what Ive seen, Tenet didnt provide critical yields 
showing comparisons with and without the enhanced CETV, so she wouldnt have had that 
information available to her. But I still think Mrs B was more likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits by transferring out of her OPS. And because Im saying the advice was substantially 
predicated on her apparent need for £44,000, it was fundamentally unsuitable in that 
respect. Its therefore fair for me to say this enhancement has no real bearing on what ought 
to have been recommended. Tenet should have clearly given Mrs B information on which 
she could make an informed choice.
Tenets response to my PD
I have considered Tenets response to my PD but I note the points it makes are 
predominantly re-stating issues that have already been considered and ones I dealt with, 
comprehensively, in my PD. However, Id like to respond to two particular issues Tenet now 
raises.
The first relates to Mrs Bs health. Tenet implies her health was poor, to the extent that her 
life expectancy was shorter. Of course, we do sometimes see cases where consumers are properly advice to take a particular course of action with regards to pension transfers, 
because they may not live long enough to use the funds.
But I dont think this situation existed here. In fact, in my view, Tenet is a long way off being 
able to make such a judgement. Its true Mrs B did suffer from existing health conditions, and 
Ive referred to the relevance of this above. But these were treatable matters endured by 
large sections of the general population; Ive seen no evidence these medical issues change 
any of the views Ive expressed about upholding this complaint. 
Tenet also made more submissions on the business investment Mrs B was said to want the 
transferred funds for. Tenet hasnt really added anything new here. And Ive previously 
explained why I didnt think the business investment was either needed, or certainly, that 
other options ought to have been considered rather than transferring out of her DB pension 
to fund some investment in new equipment. Tenet implies now that the business was about 
to fail  but Ive seen no evidence of that whatsoever.
Having read all Tenets submissions with care, Im afraid none of them change what I think.
Summary
In my decision I have explained why it wasnt in Mrs Bs best interests to transfer out of her 
OPS. She was giving up a guaranteed and risk-free income and by transferring, Mrs B was 
very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. 
There were no other properly evidenced reasons which would justify a transfer. Mrs B 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to raise money for her 
business, not least because this investment hadnt been properly assessed to show how 
much, or whether, it was really required. In any event, other reasonable options for raising 
cash were available and most likely affordable and more tax-efficient for Mrs B at the time. 
So, I think Tenet should have advised Mrs B to remain in her OPS.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs B would have gone ahead anyway, against 
Tenets advice, if it had been to remain within the scheme. Ive considered this carefully, but 
Im not persuaded that Mrs B would have insisted on transferring out of her OPS. I think if it 
had been explained to her that either not so much money was actually needed, or that a loan 
could be obtained through more appropriate methods, which didnt involve reducing her 
retirement income, she would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Tenet should compensate Mrs B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tenet to put Mrs B, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for Tenets unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs B would have 
most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs B whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. She has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. I am 
satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, 
will provide fair redress for Mrs B.
Im therefore directing that Tenet must undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs B has stopped working. So, compensation should be based on her normal 
retirement age of 60 for this scheme, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
Tenet may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs B within 90 days of the date Tenet receives notification 
of the acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Tenet to pay Mrs B.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Tenet to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that Tenet 
pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and require Tenet Connect 
Limited to pay Mrs B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Tenet Connect Limited to pay Mrs B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Tenet 
Connect Limited to pay Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
pays Mrs B the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mrs B.
If Mrs B accepts the final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tenet Connect 
Limited. My recommendation would not be binding if she doesnt accept my decision. 
Further, its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mrs B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman