DRN-2163328
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr B payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 26 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Did Mrs and Mr B have a choice?
The policy only covered Mr B. And Mrs and Mr B have said that this means they must have 
been falsely told that taking PPI was a condition of the mortgage. They say all their financial 
transactions were as a couple, and both were responsible for meeting the mortgage needs 
and:
it is therefore nonsensical and contrary to all of our other financial dealings that we 
would [have] volunteered to buy this policy solely with one person insured. We would 
only have done this in order to save costs on a policy we did not need.
Its not clear whether Mrs B was actually in work at the time  if she wasnt, she wouldnt 
have been entitled to be named on the PPI insurance.  This could be one explanation as to 
why only Mr B was insured. But, in any case, it wouldnt be fair for me to rely on what Mrs 
and Mr B have assumed happened, to say Nationwide wrongly told them they had to have 
PPI  though I dont doubt that Mrs and Mr B are attempting to give an honest explanation of 
what they believe happened. 
Also Mrs and Mr B have told us that, understandably, they cant remember several details 
from the time  they have said they cant remember how the PPI was sold to them, or 
whether Nationwide advised them to take the PPI. They also cant remember if Mr B would 
have been entitled to sick pay in his job at the time. So its quite possible they chose to take 
the PPI, and agreed that only Mr B should be covered, even if now theyve forgotten why. 
Overall, I cant fairly say Nationwide acted wrongly in the way Mrs and Mr B believe, without 
some evidence to back this up. 
Was the PPI mis-sold in some other way?
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr B as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs and Mr B to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if it had 
made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an appropriate one in their 
circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr B received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when they would need to 
fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have put Mrs and Mr B in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to Mr Bs long-term sickness or unemployment. 
Mrs and Mr B have sent us evidence of a life insurance policy, from roughly around the 
same time. But this wouldnt have made the PPI unnecessary. Life insurance covers you if 
you die  it typically makes a big pay-out, so that your family can pay off the mortgage. 
Whereas PPI covers you with a monthly payment if you are unable to work through sickness 
or if youre made redundant. Many people used to take PPI and life insurance policies at the 
same time, to protect themselves and their families from being unable to pay the mortgage. 
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mrs and Mr B took the PPI. This is for the same reason I think a recommendation of 
the policy would have been appropriate. So, even if they were given full information about 
the policy costs and benefits, its likely it would still have seemed useful to them. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr B would have been affected by any of these
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman