DRN-4318857
The complaint
Mr C complains Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined a claim made under his landlords 
property insurance policy. Mr C also holds Covea responsible for a loss of rental income.
Where Ive referred to Covea below, this also includes any actions or communication carried 
out by agents appointed to act on Coveas behalf.
What happened
Mr C owns a property which was let to a tenant, and he insures the property with Covea. 
When the tenant moved out, Mr C discovered water staining and damage to the bedroom 
and shower walls, and kitchen ceiling below, so he made a claim to Covea.
Ultimately Covea declined the claim as they said the damage had been caused gradually, 
which is excluded under Mr Cs policy. 
Mr C was unhappy with the claim decision. He also says Coveas handling of the claim 
resulted in him losing rental income. So, he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said the claim 
decision was fair as she thought the damage had occurred gradually. She also said she 
hadnt identified any avoidable delays, so wouldnt be asking Covea to pay for any loss of 
rent.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr C, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
The claim decision
When the tenants residing in Mr Cs property vacated, the agent who manages the property 
on Mr Cs behalf carried out an inspection. They notified Mr C that there was water staining 
and damage to the bedroom and shower walls, and kitchen ceiling below.
A claim was made to Covea but subsequently declined on basis of the following exclusion in 
Mr Cs policy:
Damage caused by or arising from or consisting of:
(c) gradually operating causes, including but not limited to atmospheric or climatic 
conditions, wet or dry rot, fungus, rust, corrosion, woodworm, moths, insects, vermin 
or pests
Mr C says Covea hasnt considered there is historic damage and issues from around six 
years before which he isnt claiming for, in the same area as new damage which he is. Mr C 
also says that Coveas loss adjuster who declined the claim didnt actually visit the property 
either.
Having considered all the information provided, I dont think Covea has acted unfairly by 
declining the claim relying on the exclusion outlined above. Ill explain why.
Mr C arranged his own contractor to inspect the damage and they said:
I was recently asked to renovate a shower cubicle and surrounding area for (Mr C) 
at (address).
The area showed signs of water damage around the rear of the shower cubicle plus 
the kitchen ceiling immediately below it.
Initially I removed some of the exterior plaster board from the back and side of the 
shower cubicle, just above floor level, to provide an estimate of costs. I also lifted the 
carpet to see the extent of the damage to the floor and ceiling below.
Upon starting the repairs I was able to further remove more plaster board, the 
insulation between the shower interior wall and the exterior plaster work, and remove 
the shower tiling.
This allowed me to see that the immediate damage has been caused by a failure of 
the sealant around the shower tray. Water from this sealant failure had then leaked 
into the floor cavity and was being soaked up by the plaster exterior wall, the 
chipboard flooring and also the plaster ceiling in the kitchen below. The insulation 
material in the stud wall had not absorbed much water.
I have been a general building contractor, plumber and electrician for 25+ years and 
it is my opinion that whilst there is some residual evidence of a prior leak (staining to 
still sound flooring timber/ceiling joists), the damage and catastrophic leak that 
required immediate attention was caused by a recent leak within the last 12-24 
months.
They also mentioned they performed some handyman repairs in other parts of the property 
in the last 24 months and didnt see a leak at that time.
Mr Cs contractor concluded that the catastrophic leak occurred in the last 12-24 months, so 
some considerable time prior to being reported. And given they said it was a failure of the 
sealant, this would have been allowing continued water to leak, causing damage to worsen 
up until the point it was reported.
Coveas contractor also carried out an inspection, with numerous photos taken. Whilst I note 
Mr C says Coveas loss adjuster later appointed didnt attend, they relied on all the 
information including the numerous images already taken to reach their decision.
They concluded:The claim was submitted for water damage to a stud wall and associated tile finishes 
to a shower cubical and to water damage to the kitchen ceiling directly below the 
shower.
It is clear from the pictures attached there is long standing rot to the joists and the 
decking. (name) confirmed he had a repair completed six years ago for the same 
issue. The pictures also show this repair with lighter timber between the joists.
The repair timber has been fitted between the long-standing rotten timbers; thus the 
repair was not completed correctly and the rotten timbers should have been removed 
and replaced.
The cubicle was installed some twenty years ago as part of the refurbishment. The 
contractor has simply built a timber stud wall into the bedroom area, covered the stud 
with plaster board both sides and tiles inside the cubical. This is an inadequate 
construction for a shower and water-resistant board should have been used on the 
inside.
The shower was destined to fail in this way from the day it was first used.
So, they concluded that the shower construction was incorrect, which has allowed damage 
to occur gradually over time. And I havent been provided with anything which demonstrates 
they reached an incorrect conclusion. From both experts comments, theyve concluded the 
damage is both historic and occurred gradually, rather than the result of a recent, singular 
one-off event.
Whilst I do note that Mr Cs letting agent says they didnt notice the damage in the past, 
having seen the images, I think its evident the leak has been ongoing for a prolonged period 
of time given the extent of the staining, black mould on the grouting and how much damage 
and rot is present. And I think this would have been visible for some time. Both the experts 
appointed by Covea and Mr C conclude that it is historic and has occurred over time too.
With this in mind, Im satisfied on balance, that the damage occurred gradually, which is 
excluded under Mr Cs policy. Therefore, I dont think that Covea has acted unfairly by 
declining the claim on this basis.
I also note that Mr C says even if the damage was caused gradually in the last 12-24 
months, its clear there has been a leak, and hes been insured with Covea for the last three 
to four years. However, the policy covers one-off incidents of damage, not continued 
damage which gets worse over time. And the exclusion Covea is fairly relying on reflects 
that.
Loss of rent
Mr C is also claiming for loss of rent for the period his property was without tenants, and he 
holds Covea partly responsible for that.Mr Cs policy terms and conditions outline:
Cover
In the event that a Premises suffers Damage insured under Section 1: Property 
Damage of the policy occurring during the Period of Insurance We will indemnify You 
for:
Loss of Rent.
However, as explained, I dont think Covea has acted unfairly by declining Mr Cs claim 
based on the gradual damage exclusion. So as an insured event hasnt occurred under the 
terms, loss of rent isnt covered under Mr Cs policy.
Mr C says that Covea is responsible for two of the three months where he incurred a loss of 
rent due to their handling of his claim. Whilst the policy terms dont strictly cover the loss of 
rent as an insured event hasnt occurred, if I was satisfied that Covea was solely responsible 
for delays, on a fair and reasonable basis, I could direct them to compensate Mr C the 
equivalent amount of financial loss he incurred.
However, Im not persuaded that Covea is solely responsible for delays, so Im not going to 
direct them to pay Mr C the equivalent of rental income for this period. Ill explain why. 
The tenant moved out of the property in November 2022. And a claim wasnt made to Covea 
until December 2022. So, the tenant didnt move out as a result of the damage, instead the 
property was already empty by that time, so no rent was due at that point in any event.
Mr C obtained a quote from his own contractor which he provided to Covea. An initial 
inspection to consider the repairs required was initially completed by Covea in 
December 2022. Due to the cost of repairs, Covea said a second quote was also required.
Covea considered the quotes provided and initially agreed Mr C could go ahead with his on 
6 January 2023. But later that day, Covea said a loss adjuster was needed to assess the 
claim before it could proceed.
Whilst Covea said that Mr C could proceed on 6 January 2023, they reversed this decision 
on the same day. As by that point they hadnt been provided with all costings for works, or a 
cause of damage report. I dont think Covea acted unreasonably in requiring a loss adjuster 
at that stage to be appointed. Given there was historic damage not being claimed for, in the 
same area of damage Mr C did want to claim for, its not unreasonable for Covea to need to 
consider matters further against the policy terms with the involvement of a loss adjuster. And 
from the notes, Mr C also needed to amend the quotes to remove that additional damage 
too.
Mr C says they attended on 17 January 2023. After review, Mr C says he was told towards 
the end of January that it was gradual damage and not covered, and this was followed up in 
writing shortly after. Mr C then appointed his contractor to complete works and the invoice 
for repairs is dated 15 February 2023. A complaint wasnt raised by Mr C until 28 February 
2023, and Covea had eight weeks from then to issue their final response, which they did, on 
14 April 2023.
Having considered everything that occurred, I dont think there were any unavoidable delays 
solely as a result of Coveas handling of matters. Therefore, Im not going to direct them to 
compensate Mr C the equivalent of two months rent.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman