DRN-4229505
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the actions of RCI Financial Services Limited regarding a battery
hire agreement for her electrical car.
What happened
Mrs W entered into a three year hire agreement for a battery for her electrical car with
RCI in September 2019. RCI got in touch with Mrs W in May 2022 about the end of the
contract. Mrs W was happy to continue with the agreement but had some questions about it. 
These were to do with reducing the annual mileage permitted under the agreement and 
reducing the monthly fee accordingly. Mrs W didnt receive a satisfactory response to her 
request and complained to RCI in August.
RCI upheld Mrs Ws complaint and apologised for the way it handled her queries about
the agreement. It sent her a final response letter on 24 August in which it explained that the 
agreement continues to roll on until she either paid the battery purchase price or sold it to a 
third party. RCI also told Mrs W that her payments would remain the same unless there were 
any changes in the mileage.
Based on Mrs Ws choice to reduce the annual mileage from May 2022, RCI agreed to:
Amend the annual mileage in the agreement from 12,000 (equating to unlimited 
mileage permitted) to 7,500 miles per annum;
Charge Mrs W a reduced monthly payment going forward, in other words from 
September 2022;
Refund the difference in monthly payments for May to August;
Not charge Mrs W any excess mileage fee regardless of the return mileage recorded 
when the battery was either returned or the agreement ended.
Mrs W accepted this resolution to her complaint. RCI said that it needed a new signed
agreement from her as the original agreement term had ended. It had sent Mrs W a number 
of revised agreements by October 2022. However, Mrs W found that the agreement wasnt 
amended to her satisfaction and she didnt wish to sign it. She told us that there was no 
explanation from RCI as to why the revised agreement amended the annual mileage from 
Sept 2019 (when shed purchased the vehicle) and not May 2022, or why it continued that to 
state that excess mileage charges would apply.
RCI has continued to charge Mrs W at the original, higher monthly rate, though I understand 
it refunded the difference in the rates for the months of May to August 2022.
Mrs W referred her complaint to us as she remained unhappy with how RCI implemented the 
resolution it proposed in its final response letter. Our investigator looked into things for her 
but found that RCI had offered a fair resolution to her complaint and didnt uphold it.
Mrs W remained unhappy and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman 
and it came to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 June 2023 explaining why I wasnt planning to uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint. I allowed some time for both parties to provide further comments or 
information they wished me to consider when making my final decision on this matter. RCI 
didnt have any further comments. Mrs W provided a detailed response to my provisional 
decision. I want to reassure Mrs W that I have considered everything shes said when 
making this final decision. If I dont refer to it in my draft or if I havent expressed things as 
she would wish, it is because I have focussed on what I think are the relevant points to 
include here, bearing in mind this Services informal remit. 
Mrs W summarised her response by asking that RCI:
Provide an email address I can send the signed revised agreement (with items 
crossed out and/or amended by myself as suggested) as I note their website has 
changed and I have no idea to whom I should send it to so it is actioned.
Confirm within how many days of me doing this they will refund the current £300 
owed (based on overpayment Sept 2022 to June 2023) plus the difference in the July 
payment if that is taken in the meantime.
Confirm from when they will amend the monthly payment to £78.98.
Confirm when additional compensation will be paid (as I believe they should as the 
reason we are where we are is purely down to the lack of communication and 
explanation from them).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything again including what Mrs W said in response to my provisional 
decision and my view remains unchanged. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing 
news for Mrs W. Ill set out again the reasons why Im not upholding her complaint in this 
final decision. 
When Mrs W referred her complaint to us she said that in order to put things right for her
she wanted RCI to send her a revised agreement or an addendum to that agreement that
she could sign. Mrs W asked that RCI sent, via letter, confirmation that excess charges
would not apply in advance of her signing any revised agreement, if that agreement
continued to state that excess mileage charges would apply.
As mentioned, RCI has provided Mrs W with an amended agreement which stated the 
contractual mileage as 7,500 along with the new, lower monthly payments of £78.98. The 
agreement still included Clause 4 which stated If you exceed the Maximum Contractual 
Mileage (as appropriately pro-rated if the hiring ends early) you will be in breach of this 
Agreement and will have to pay a Hiring Excess Mileage Charge of £8.00 for every 100 
miles or part thereof.
RCI told us that the agreement is in effect a continuation of the initial lease agreement but
with an amended mileage allowance and the relevant reduction in the monthly payment. It
said that the contract was a standard templated contract and the wording could not be
amended. RCI pointed out that its final response letter to Mrs W said that it would not
charge any excess mileage fee regardless of the return mileage recorded when the
battery was either returned or the contract ended. The final response letter also stated
that full notes had been recorded on Mrs Ws file to avoid any discrepancies arising in the
future.
RCI agreed that Mrs W could attach a copy of the final response letter to the signedamended agreement and add an additional comment to it, or cross out the part relating to
excess mileage on the contract prior to signing it. Mrs W told us that she was concerned
about the legal standing of the agreement if she crossed out words in it. She wanted
RCI to provide a revised agreement that crossed out/amended the relevant words, or
removed them altogether. 
I said in my provisional decision that:
While the agreement in its current form contains the standard clause regarding excess
mileage charges I think RCI have taken reasonable steps to ensure that these charges wont
apply in Mrs Ws case. It is willing to accept the final response letter as an addendum to the
signed amended agreement. My provisional decision is that RCI does not need to take any 
further steps regarding the agreement documentation. If Mrs W is concerned about the legal 
standing of the addendum arrangement then she should seek legal advice.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs W said she is now happy to return a signed 
revised agreement (with items crossed out and/or amended by her as suggested). My 
decision remains that RCI doesnt need to take any further steps regarding the agreement 
documentation. 
Mrs W mentioned time scales in her summary response to my provisional decision. RCI 
stated in its final response that it would process a refund of the difference in payments and 
reduce the monthly payments going forward upon receipt of Mrs Ws signed acceptance.  
Mrs W wishes RCI to provide compensation for the ongoing stress and inconvenience it 
caused her by not implementing the complaint resolution agreed in August 2022. RCI said 
that Mrs W had the confirmation she needed regarding excess mileage charges in her 
possession since then, so the delay in signing the required amended agreement was down 
to her.
I said in my provisional decision that:
I have considered whether RCI should pay Mrs W some compensation for the stress this
matter has caused. RCI could have made it clear to Mrs W in August 2022 that it would
accept its final response letter as an addendum to the agreement. However, as Mrs W hasnt
accepted this course of action now I cant see that she would have done so earlier in this
dispute. I dont think RCIs inaction has delayed the matter and so an award for ongoing
stress and inconvenience wouldnt be appropriate here.
Mrs W said in response to this that I dont know what she would or would not have accepted. 
She said that at no point did RCI let her know that the contract she would be sent would 
amend the mileage from the beginning, in other words, September 2019, and would still 
contain the excess mileage charges. Mrs W also said that RCI never suggested a way 
forward but rather that she had suggested solutions herself and via this Service. She said 
had RCI explained that in the revised agreement the mileage would be amended from 
September 2019 and that it would still contain the excess mileage charges and suggested a 
workaround she might have been perfectly amenable to that approach. 
It is, of course, true that I cannot know with certainty what Mrs W would or would not have 
accepted regarding this contract. Last month Mrs W didnt accept the suggestion to attach a 
copy of the final response letter to the signed amended agreement and add an additional 
comment to it or cross out the part relating to excess mileage on the contract prior to signing 
it. I have to make a decision on this point and in the absence of anything to suggest 
otherwise, Ive concluded that its more likely than not that Mrs W wouldnt have accepted 
this suggestion earlier in the course of her complaint. It follows that I cant then find that RCI is responsible for the length of time its taken to resolve things. I remain of the view that an 
award for ongoing distress and inconvenience wouldnt be appropriate here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am not upholding Mrs Ws complaint about 
RCI Financial Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman