DRN-3358929
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, rescinded the 
promotional 0% interest rate offer on his credit account unfairly and without notifying him that 
theyd done so.
What happened
Mr L opened a credit account with Virgin to take advantage of a promotional 0% interest rate 
offer on balance transfers. Mr L then made two balance transfers into the account totalling 
approximately £12,700. 
The next month, Mr L received notice from Virgin that his monthly payment was overdue. Mr 
L made a transfer to his Virgin account the following day to cover the overdue payment.
Some months later, Mr L accessed his Virgin account online and noticed the promotional 0% 
interest rate offer had been rescinded by Virgin as a result of the previous overdue payment. 
This meant that account had been accruing interest unbeknownst to Mr L in the months 
since the offer had been rescinded. Mr L wasnt happy that interest rate offer had been 
rescinded, or that he hadnt been informed about it. So, he raised a complaint.
Virgin looked at Mr Ls complaint. They noted that the terms of the 0% interest rate offer 
included that it would be rescinded if a monthly payments wasnt made on time  as had 
been the case in this instance  and that the fact that the offer had been rescinded had been 
included on all the account statements subsequent to that time. As such, Virgin didnt feel 
that theyd acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation about which Mr L was 
complaining, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Virgin had acted 
unfairly towards Mr L, and so they also didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that it was a condition of the promotional 0% interest rate offer 
on the Virgin account that the offer would be rescinded if a monthly payment due on the 
account wasnt made on time. And Im also satisfied that, in this instance, the first payment 
that was due on the account wasnt made on time.
The payment in question had been scheduled by Mr L to be taken by direct debit when first 
opening account, and unfortunately it appears that Mr L elected by mistake for the monthly 
payments to clear the full balance outstanding on the account at that time, rather than to pay 
the monthly minimum payment. 
This meant that when the first payment on the account became due, a direct debit payment 
for several thousand pounds was requested by Virgin to Mr Ls bank  which was then 
rejected by Mr Ls bank on the basis of unavailable funds.
In his ongoing correspondence with this service, Mr L has stated that he would never have 
knowingly set the account up in such a manner, and has complained that this means that 
Virgins account opening process wasnt fit for purpose and lacked the necessary clarity for 
Mr L to have understood how he was electing to set the account up at that time.
I can appreciate Mr Ls position here. But this service can only consider complaints that the 
business being complained about has already had the opportunity to consider and respond 
to. And in this instance, Mr Ls complaint to Virgin was that Virgin unfairly removed the 
promotional interest rate offer from his account and didnt inform him about it  and that was 
the complaint which Virgin have considered and responded to, and for which Virgin gave   
Mr L the right to refer his complaint to this service in their final response letter.
Additionally, Im satisfied from the information provided to this service by Virgin that Mr L did 
set up his account so that the full balance of the account would be cleared on a monthly 
basis. And while I can appreciate that this may have been a mistake on Mr Ls part, I dont 
feel that I can fairly or reasonably hold Virgin accountable for attempting to take the full 
balance of the account in line with how Mr L had instructed  whether knowingly or not.
Accordingly, if Mr L continues to feel that Virgins account set up process wasnt fit for 
purpose in the manner previously described, then he would need to raise this point with 
Virgin as a new complaint so as to given Virgin the opportunity to consider and respond to 
that complaint. Following that, Mr L may have the right to refer that aspect of his complaint to 
this service for consideration, should he continue to wish to do so at that time.
However, it must be noted that the first account statement that Virgin issued, which was 
done twenty-days in advance of the first direct debit date, did include that the full balance of 
the account was scheduled to be applied for by direct debit on the applicable date. 
Given that its the responsibility of an account holder to monitor their account  and that the 
terms of the Virgin account include that the account holder must review the monthly 
statements so as to ensure that they are happy with the information contained therein  it 
appears that Mr L was given advance confirmation that the full balance outstanding on the 
account would be applied for, and this the opportunity to have amended the direct debit if he 
wasnt happy with how it was scheduled before it went ahead.
This same logic also applies to Mr Ls point that he wasnt made aware by Virgin that the 
promotional interest rate offer had been rescinded, and I say this because its clear from the 
subsequent account statements that the 0% interest rate offer was no longer being applied 
to the account and that interest at the accounts contractual rate was being incurred.
Mr L has confirmed that he didnt access his account online for several months following the 
failed direct debit, and that it was only when he did that he became aware that his account 
had been incurring interest over those months. 
But, given that the account statements had included information about the rates of interest 
being applied to this account, as explained above, I find it difficult to conclude that Virgin can 
be considered to have not informed Mr L about this point. Rather, I feel that Mr L didnt 
review his account statements so as to maintain up-to-date knowledge of his account, 
including the interest that was being charged.Im aware that Mr L has stated that he prefers paper statements and isnt familiar with online 
banking. But Virgin have confirmed that all applicant customers are informed during the 
application process that the account will automatically be set up with online statements, and 
that an account holder must request paper statements if they want them once an account is 
up and running. 
But Mr L hadnt requested paper statements by the time he first learned of the interest that 
had accrued on his account. And given that this was several months after the account was 
opened, I feel at the least that the absence of paper monthly statements from Virgin ought 
reasonably to have alerted Mr L to the fact that he would need to monitor his account online.
Ultimately, while I appreciate that Mr L may have requested for the full balance outstanding 
on his account to have been taken on a monthly basis by mistake, I dont feel that I can fairly 
or reasonably hold Virgin accountable for attempting to process the monthly payment in the 
manner that Mr L had instructed them to. Additionally, I feel that Virgin presented the 
information surrounding the impending direct debit payment amount, and the subsequent 
loss of the 0% interest rate offer, to Mr L via a channel that it would be reasonably expected 
that Mr L would have monitored.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr L was wanting, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Virgin to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr L will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman