DRN-3327032
The complaint
Mr W complains about a joint current account he has with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr W has a joint account with his ex-partner provided by Santander. The relationship 
between Mr W and his ex-partner broke down; however, they kept the account open for 
household related bills. Mr W has told this service that he has been a victim of domestic and 
economic abuse  and that Santanders actions have contributed to this. 
In February 2020, Mr W got in touch with Santander to let them know that there was a 
dispute between the parties and that his ex-partner had been spending on the account 
without his consent. Mr W wanted to know if he would be liable for the transactions his ex-
partner was making. A representative of Santander told Mr W that it would be able to identify 
the transactions made with her card, and that he wouldnt be liable for any spending made 
by his ex-partner. Mr W was told during this call that he could place the account in dispute 
which would prevent any further spending on the account from either party. But Mr W didnt 
want to do this at the time.
Mr W contacted Santander a couple of days after this conversation, and he was informed 
that the information he got during the previous call was incorrect, and that both parties would 
be jointly liable for any spending on the account. To say sorry for the incorrect information he 
was given, Santander paid Mr W £50. However, Mr W was also told on this call that he could 
prevent further spending on the account by putting it into dispute.  
Mr W then contacted Santander again in March 2020. He said that an ongoing police matter 
between the parties had now been resolved and he was now able to deal with the joint 
account. Again, Mr W let Santander know about the dispute between the parties, and that 
his ex-partner was spending on the account without his consent  when the purpose of the 
account remaining open was for household bills that they were both responsible for. 
Santander again gave Mr W the option of putting the account in dispute. It let him know that 
by doing this would prevent additional spending on the account by either party. Mr W was 
told that if he were to do this, direct debits couldnt be amended without them both agreeing 
to it. But that ultimately, the only way to stop further actions on the account without the other 
persons knowledge was to put it in dispute. Mr W declined to do this again, but said hed 
make some amendments to the direct debits and call back in a couple of weeks to put the 
account in dispute. 
In April 2020, Mr W noticed that an overdraft had been applied to the account by his ex-
partner. Immediately after the overdraft was granted, his ex-partner transferred some funds 
out of the account, which left the account in the arranged overdraft, of around £350. 
Mr W then contacted Santander about this. He didnt think it was fair that his ex-partner 
could go ahead and be accepted for an overdraft on the joint account without his consent. To 
avoid any further spending, direct debt changes, or overdrafts being granted, Mr W 
requested that the account was put in dispute.
Shortly after the account went in dispute, Mr W contacted Santander again because he was 
unable to access the account online, so he couldnt see any of the accounts transaction 
information. During the call, Mr W found out that his ex-partner had been able to cancel the 
direct debits leaving the account, even after it had gone into dispute. These direct debits 
were reinstated on the phone call.
Mr W complained about this to Santander and they paid him £350 to apologise for telling him 
hed be able to access the account when he wouldnt be able to once it was in dispute, and 
for allowing the direct debits to be cancelled even after the dispute was in place.
Mr W remained unhappy with what had happened and complained to this service. Mainly 
because he felt that his ex-partner shouldnt have been able to apply for an overdraft facility 
when Santander were aware of the dispute and that he shouldnt be jointly liable for the 
outstanding amount now left on the account. 
Mr W has also stated that Santander have been reporting late payments markers to his 
credit file because the debt on the account hadnt been repaid. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W but they didnt uphold the complaint. They felt 
that the £50 Santander offered Mr W for the wrong information about his ex-partner being 
liable for the spending on the account was enough  this was because the correct 
information was given to him only a few days later. They also found that Mr W was given the 
option of putting the account into dispute on a number of occasions, and because Mr W had 
declined to do this, they didnt think Santander had done anything wrong by allowing his ex-
partner to apply for an overdraft facility. The investigator agreed that Santander shouldnt 
have allowed the direct debits to be cancelled after the account went into dispute, and that 
Mr W wasnt able to access the account when he was told he would  but the investigator 
thought that the £350 Santander had already paid was enough to settle things here. 
Mr W responded to our investigator to say he was unhappy with the outcome. He agreed 
with the compensation amounts that Santander had paid him were enough for the things it 
said it had done wrong. However, he still didnt think that it was fair of Santander to agree to 
the overdraft, given what it knew about the dispute, and he didnt think he should be liable for 
the outstanding debt. Mr W also didnt think it was fair that Santander continue to report 
adverse information about him in relation to the account to the credit reference agencies.
Because Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen and heard; it is my decision not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him, however I will explain my reason for 
this below. 
Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided by Mr W and Santander 
parties, in reaching my decision. Both parties have sent this service a lot of information for 
me to consider during the course of this complaint. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party but merely to reflect 
my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised 
unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Clearly there has been a dispute between Mr W and his ex-partner in relation to this 
account. I want to make it clear that I cant address any issue that relates to the civil dispute 
between them. And I wont be able to make any finding that could impact Mr Ws ex-partner, 
as she is not party to this complaint. What I will be looking at though is whether Santander 
has treated Mr W fairly, and for the reasons Ill go onto explain, I think it has.
Mr W and his ex-partner opened this joint account together. The terms and conditions that 
apply to the account state that the account can be used independently by either party. What 
this means is that either party can carry out actions on the account without needing the 
consent of the other party. And they are both jointly and severally liable for the account.
Mr W did contact Santander on a number of occasions to let it know about the dispute 
between the parties. And so, Im satisfied Santander was aware of what was happening 
between the parties. And on each occasion, Mr W was told that the only way further 
spending on the account could be stopped was by placing the account into a dispute  
however this would limit both parties from being able to use the account or make changes to 
direct debits. Each time Santander explained this process, Mr W declined to do this.
I can understand why Mr W might not have wanted to place the account in dispute  as by 
doing so would also prevent him from being able to use the account how he might have 
wanted to. But Im satisfied that Mr W was aware that by not doing this it would mean that 
his ex-partner could continue to use the account freely. 
I dont think I can agree with Mr W that it was unfair of Santander to approve the overdraft 
facility  even though it had the knowledge of the dispute. Mr W had declined to have the 
account restricted on a number of occasions, but this meant that either party could still carry 
out any action they wanted to without the other person needing to consent. While Mr W 
might find this to be unfair, Santander were very clear with him on a number of occasions the 
option he had to stop something like this from happening. 
While I appreciate Mr Ws comment that he wasnt aware his ex-partner could apply for an 
overdraft, I think he was aware that there werent any restrictions on the account. So either 
party could essentially operate the account as they wanted to. When the account was initially 
opened, it had an overdraft facility, so I think Mr W would likely have been aware that the 
type of account him and his ex-partner held could have an overdraft. I think its just likely that 
he didnt expect his ex-partner to have requested something like this.
Given that there were no restrictions on the account (at Mr Ws request) at the time Mr Ws 
ex-partner applied for the overdraft, I dont think Santander acted unfairly by approving this. I 
can see that Mr W also attempted to make changes to the overdraft too, which were done 
without his ex-partners consent (albeit after the overdraft had already been granted). And 
so, I think Santander have allowed both parties to carry out actions on the account in line 
with the terms and conditions  which is as Id expect when the account hasnt been placed 
in dispute.
The terms and conditions of the account mean that both parties are jointly and severally 
liable  and so both parties are liable for the outstanding debt which remains on the account. 
Any dispute about how this should or shouldnt be split would be a civil matter that Ive 
already explained I wont be commenting on.
Santander has the responsibility to report accurate information about how someone has 
managed their account to the credit reference agency. Mr W hasnt made any payments towards the debt owing on the account and so I think it was fair that Santander has 
continued to report this. 
I know Mr W thinks this is unfair because of this ongoing complaint, and that he was waiting 
for an outcome before he took any further action. But I can see that Mr W has been told that 
hed need to continue to maintain the account even while his complaint was ongoing. It is 
clear that his credit file has been impacted as a result, but given that no payments have 
been made to the account, and Mr W is jointly and severally liable for the debt, I dont think 
Santander has done anything wrong in reporting this information given that it is an accurate 
representation of how the account has been managed. 
Mr W has already said hes happy with the level of compensation he has received from 
Santander for the things it got wrong. And I agree that what it has offered is appropriate. The 
issue with the incorrect information being provided was rectified a couple of days later and 
doesnt appear to have caused any financial loss. And the direct debits that had been 
wrongly allowed to be cancelled were reinstated without any payments being missed, so 
again I think the impact here was minimal.
I do think that Santander did give Mr W other misleading information though. For example, I 
dont think its message to Mr W about how the account could be closed was clear. For 
example, I have heard on one call that he was told both parties needed to go to a branch to 
do this, when actually, it could be closed by either party as long as there wasnt a debt owing 
on the account. However, I dont think this means that Mr W should get more compensation. 
While it is my view that the information is gave Mr W wasnt clear, when Mr W did have the 
correct information about this, he didnt close the account at this point, and it still remains 
open. I dont think clearer information would have led to Mr W closing the account  I say 
this because he was reluctant to put the account into dispute, and he still wanted it open to 
pay joint bills.
So, based on everything Ive said above, while I agree that Santander could have done 
better in some areas, I think Mr W has been fairly compensated for these issues. I dont think 
Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably by allowing the overdraft on the account  or 
in reporting late payments to the credit reference agencies. And so, it follows that I dont 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman