DRN-4174650
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about their lifetime mortgage with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. 
They say that it failed to communicate with them about the mortgage for many years, which 
means they forgot about its existence and missed the chance to pay it off.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a lifetime mortgage in 2004. The lender was Aviva, but under its 
former brand name of Norwich Union.
Mr and Mrs R say they received annual mortgage statements for the first few years. In 2007 
they were concerned about how much the loan balance had increased. They say they 
considered repaying it then, but decided to wait a further year before making a final decision.
Mr and Mrs R say that after 2007 they didnt receive any further annual statements, or any 
other communication from Aviva, until it sent them their 2022 statement. They say that as a 
result they forgot about the existence of the mortgage. Had they been reminded by the 
annual statements they would have paid it off in 2008  Avivas failure to communicate with 
them means they lost the chance to do so. They suspect that the problem was related to the 
change to Aviva around this time. And they think that Aviva has since fabricated its records 
to show that the statements were in fact sent  they dont believe that they were. 
Aviva says that it did send out annual statements every year between 2007 and 2022. It has 
copies of the statements and its systems show they were sent. If for any reason there was a 
postal problem which meant Mr and Mrs R didnt receive them it cant be held responsible for 
that. In any case Mr and Mrs R knew about their mortgage and could have got in touch with 
Aviva at any time to discuss it, including to discuss making a repayment. It offered £100 
compensation for a delay in sending copies of the statements to Mr and Mrs R at the time of 
their complaint.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with that and referred their complaint to us. They said that 
Avivas failure meant they still had a mortgage they could have paid off years ago, with a 
much higher balance because of the passage of time. To resolve matters they wanted Aviva 
to write their mortgage off. Our investigator didnt think their complaint should be upheld, so 
Mr and Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to Avivas records, the annual statements were sent each year. They were sent to 
Mr and Mrs Rs correct address, the address theyve given us for use in this complaint. I 
dont think its likely Aviva would fabricate its records to show that statements were sent 
when they werent. On balance Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Aviva sent 
statements to Mr and Mrs R each year, and sent them to the correct address.
It's possible that all the statements between 2007 and 2022 were lost in the post. Items do 
occasionally get lost in the post. But I think its very unlikely that every statement for fifteen 
years would go astray, when Mr and Mrs R havent reported problems with their post more 
widely. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R did receive the 
statements but didnt keep copies of them or  as they werent required to make any regular 
payments to it  give their mortgage much thought. And so they dont now remember 
receiving the statements, didnt keep copies, and have come to believe  honestly, but 
mistakenly  that they never arrived.
Even if the statements were never delivered to Mr and Mrs R  which, as I have said, I dont 
think is likely  it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to find that they were unaware of 
their mortgage as a result.
Mr and Mrs R clearly knew about the mortgage when they took it out and received the 
money. Theyve still got copies of their annual statements from before 2008, so those 
statements would have told them about it too. I can also see that Aviva sent them 
questionnaires about their property in 2009 and 2014  Mr and Mrs R completed the 
questionnaires and sent them back. And theres a record of Mrs R calling Aviva in 2012 to 
find out the loan balance and property value, and to ask whether further borrowing might be 
available. Finally, when Mrs R entered into an individual voluntary arrangement in 2014 
Aviva was notified by the supervisor of the arrangement  who must have been told about it 
by Mrs R. All of that evidence persuades me that Mr and Mrs R were aware of the existence 
of their mortgage throughout. 
So even if they didnt receive the statements, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R knew about their 
mortgage. If their plan was to repay it in 2008 there was nothing to stop them contacting 
Aviva at that time to make the arrangements to repay. I dont think it would be fair to expect 
Aviva to write off the balance now because they didnt do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman