DRN-2953371
The complaint
Mr and Ms L are unhappy with how St Andrews Insurance Plc (SAI") has handled their 
claim for subsidence under their home insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 July 2021 detailing my intention to not 
uphold this complaint I said:
SAI has used a third party to administer the policy. But for ease, anything the third party has 
said on behalf of SAI will be referred to as SAI.
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In August 2018, Mr and Ms L had a court order to sell their jointly owned property 
forthwith.
Ms L visited the property accompanied by local estate agents with the intent to sell 
the property. This is when she discovered the property looked to be suffering from 
subsidence. The property was let, and their tenants hadnt informed them of the 
damage. In October 2018 Ms L raised a claim with SAI.
SAI appointed a contractor to investigate. It issued a report in November 2018, 
saying it thought the cause of the issues were defects to the drainage system. But 
site excavations were still required and further drainage investigation.
SAI fixed drainage runs in February 2019 and the relevant water authority cleared a 
blockage and cleaned the line in May 2019. But SAI also said that rainwater from 
rooftop gutters and downpipes was carrying water from several neighbouring 
properties and it was being released into Mr and Ms Ls front garden. It was 
recommended that a downpipe needed to be installed that connected directly with 
the drain. Ms L was told this wasnt covered under the policy and would be work 
theyd need to carry out themselves.
Tree roots were discovered and considered to be having an impact. The tree 
belonged to the local authority, so it was informed and given a 90-day notice period 
to investigate the claim, which expired in September 2019. Mr and Ms L raised a 
complaint to SAI in August 2019 as they felt SAI was causing unnecessary delays 
and they were unhappy that it wouldnt remove the tree roots on their property. SAI 
disagreed it had caused any delay and explained that removal of tree roots isnt 
covered under the policy and the responsibility for the tree lie with the local authority.
At the end of July 2019, Mr and Ms Ls tenants left the property. This was due to their 
own personal accessibility problems with getting up and down the stairs.
In November 2019, Mr and Ms L raised a further complaint regarding delays, and the 
loss of rent claim not being paid. SAI investigated the complaint and said that it 
hadnt caused delays. However, it says that Mr and Ms L were given incorrect 
information about needing to provide a statement from their local estate agent. For 
this, SAI offered compensation of £125. It also confirmed it was declining the loss of 
rent claim as the tenants had moved out of the property for their own personal 
reasons, and not because it was uninhabitable. Therefore, this wasnt something that 
the policy provided cover for.
In February 2020, Mr L was able to explain that in 2007 he had re-directed the 
rainwater pipe to the property boundary line which is as far as he could take it. And 
his neighbour in 2009 had installed a box gully at the front of the alleyway that runs 
between the two properties to prevent water collecting in the alleyway. SAI accept Mr 
L had done all he could to re-direct the rainwater away from the property and didnt 
pursue the need to connect the downpipe to the drain.
In March 2020, Mr L raised a further complaint regarding customer service. He was 
unhappy with how a call went with an advisor at SAI, and a letter hed received was 
incorrectly dated. He was also unhappy with how long the claim was taking. SAI 
again said it hadnt caused any delays. Monitoring started in March 2019 and was 
due to continue until March 2020, however Mr L said he felt that the alleyway and 
back of the property shouldve been monitored from March 2019, and because SAI 
had now agreed to monitor this area until May 2020 this was causing delays.
In June 2020, Mr and Ms L were still unhappy with the time taken on their claim and 
raised a further complaint. SAI said a scheduled site meeting went ahead in June 
and since then a schedule of works has been progressed and works can be started. 
It said there was some delay in getting the monitoring results due to government 
restrictions put in place because of the pandemic. Mr and Ms L remain unhappy with 
the length of time the claim has taken and loss of rent theyve incurred by not being 
able to rent the property.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said SAI had unreasonably delayed the 
claim by pursuing the removal of the tree, which was shown not to have a significant 
impact on the movement of the property. She said SAI shouldve included monitoring 
of the side of the property by the alleyway in its initial monitoring readings. By not 
doing so she felt the claim couldve progressed sooner. She recommended a further 
£750 compensation should be offered for the stress and inconvenience. However, 
she didnt feel SAI had done anything wrong in the declination of the loss of rent. And 
she was satisfied with the level of service provided by SAI.
All parties have disagreed with our investigators view so the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays
When considering this complaint, Im mindful that SAI is required to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. Claims relating to subsidence are likely to take a significant amount of time to 
resolve, often because of the investigations and the extent of monitoring necessary to 
identify the cause of the problem. In this case, there was also the aspect of a local authority 
and water authority to contend with, which inevitably had an impact on the length of time 
things took.
That said, I will be considering whether SAI caused any unnecessary delays that could have 
been avoided while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.Mr L has raised a considerable number of issues in his correspondence with SAI and this 
service. My role here is to focus on what I consider to be at the heart of the complaint, and I 
will only comment on those things relevant to the decision I need to make. That may mean I 
dont comment on everything Mr and Ms L has said, but I can confirm Ive thoroughly read 
and considered all the evidence submitted by the parties in reaching my decision.
I can empathise that this was a difficult time for Mr & Ms L, and that they were eager to get 
the repairs done as quickly as possible to enable them to sell the property as per the court 
order.
Mr L says they were expecting the property to be fully repaired by October 2019.
However, in January 2019 Ive seen a copy of an email following a phone call Ms L had with 
SAI and it said As discussed, the average timescales for a valid SUBS claim are 1-2 
years& therefore the expected timescales, as it is on this basis, that at this time , we have 
an estimated completion date for your claim of 13/11/2020..
In this claim there were two aspects thought to be causing the subsidence problem  the 
drains were the primary reason according to SAIs initial investigations but because tree 
roots were found as well, this was considered a secondary cause.
From what Ive seen SAI repaired the drains in February 2019 and the water authority looks 
to have cleared a line and a sewage block in May 2019. So, it appears the drainage issue 
was sorted out at this point except for the issue of water draining onto the land at the front of 
the property from the neighbouring properties. SAI thought Mr & Ms L needed to pay for this 
to be rectified. Although in February 2020 it accepted that this wasnt needed. SAI in my 
opinion shouldve done more to have recognised this earlier in the claim, as it seems they 
were actively pursuing something that wasnt required. However, even if it was picked up 
earlier, I dont think it caused any delay as the property would still have required monitoring 
because of the suspected clay shrinkage due to the tree belonging to the local authority.
The local authority didnt accept that their tree was causing a problem and wanted further 
evidence. This isnt uncommon and so further monitoring was provided. I can see the tree in 
question was at the front of the property, so this is where the monitoring was conducted. I 
understand why Mr and Ms L feel the whole of the property shouldve been monitored from 
the beginning. But I dont agree. I say this because when drains are the sole fault of 
subsidence, monitoring isnt usually required as the cause of damage would be eliminated 
when the drain repairs are completed. And after giving the property a period of time to 
stabilise, repairs can normally begin. The tree was at the front of the property, so Im 
satisfied that it was fair for the monitoring to be conducted in this area of the property.
In September 2019, I can see Ms L was informed by SAI that the monitoring period needed 
to be extended as at that point four readings had been taken and it would require six to eight 
readings where a local authority is involved  readings were to be taken every 8 weeks. It 
also reiterated that subsidence claims normally take 1-2 years and the estimated completion 
date was 13/11/2020.
Having looked at the notes on file in September 2019, the monitoring results were 
inconclusive regarding the impact the tree was having on the property. And in November 
2019 it was still showing the property was moving albeit it was minor. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for SAI to monitor for a further period of time as it needed to ensure the 
property was stable before conducting repairs.
However, when Mr L raised concerns about the drain repairs and that the side of the 
property hadnt been monitored as he thought it shouldve done, SAI agreed for extra monitoring to be done from March to May 2020, and another drain survey to be conducted to 
put his mind at ease. I note it did this without any evidence being supplied to it that the 
repairs had failed.
I have also considered that during the last period of monitoring SAI wouldve been unable to 
repair/redecorate the property as there were government restrictions in place due to Covid- 
19. So, the earliest repairs wouldve been able to start was June 2020. Therefore, bearing all 
this in mind I dont agree that there were unavoidable delays and I dont propose to ask SAI 
to do anything further.
Loss of rent
Mr and Ms L had tenants in the property when the claim was instigated up to the end of July 
2019.
Ive looked at what the policy covers and under the alternative accommodation section it 
says;
If your home is made uninhabitable by any cause covered under buildings cover, we will 
pay for:
-  ,
- Rent you should have received but have lost,
- .
The most we will pay for any one event Is £30,000.
SAI say the property became unoccupied at the time of the loss, as the tenants had left the 
property due to their own accessibility issues and this was not due to the property being 
uninhabitable. It has said if the property was unoccupied at the time of the loss, and in 
between tenants being there, they wont pay for any potential loss of rent.
Mr L disagrees and says the property was uninhabitable. Mr and Ms L arranged for three 
estate agents to visit the property in August 2019. I have seen responses from two of them;
In my opinion the subsidence damage has left the property in a state that will make it very 
difficult to either sell or rent to new tenants or owners in its present condition. It is possible 
that the condition of the property may have played a part in the decision of the past tenants 
to end their tenancy and move out.
and;
in our opinion the dwelling is suffering from settlement evident from sloping internal floors, 
cracks to internal wall plaster, cracks to front and rear elevations and party walls, out of 
square windows and door frames, and cracks in elevation brickwork. These structural 
problems would be obvious to any potential buyers and in our opinion the house is 
unmortgageable in its present condition.
Mr L also said that the personal claim consultant (PCC) that SAI sent to look if the property 
was inhabitable said to him Well I wouldnt want to live here with it in this condition. I 
understand Mr L feels strongly about the comment and the emails that followed this.
Ive taken all of this into account. The policy document doesnt define uninhabitable, but I 
can see SAI provided Mr and Ms L a list of examples of what this means and from what Ive 
seen the property had cooking and washing facilities and it was deemed safe to live in. I 
appreciate the damage might make the property unattractive to prospective tenants, but it 
doesnt necessarily make it uninhabitable. So, Im persuaded the property was habitable. I can see SAI offered to do temporary repairs to the cracks if the property became draughty. 
But it also mentioned that there were works that Mr and Ms L would need to do to make the 
property rentable that were separate from the insurance claim.
Mr L has said they wouldve done the works if they had known at the time the full repair 
works would go beyond October 2019. But as I have already mentioned, Ms L was informed 
of the timescale in January 2019 and reminded of it again in September 2019. I can also see 
Mr L was informed by the PCC in her email dated 18 September 2019 that it will take 
approximately a year to complete all investigations and have the repair work completed. So, 
Im not persuaded that Mr and Ms L were unaware of the timescales involved, and they 
couldve attempted to get a tenant in prior to selling the property when the works were 
completed. I will therefore not be asking SAI to pay for loss of rent as the policy term hasnt 
been met.
Customer service issues
Mr L has also referred to some other points, which Ive considered as follows:
Mr L is unhappy that when the PCC attended his property, she indicated she wouldnt 
want to live in it, in its current state. But in her findings following the visit said it could 
be rented out following some maintenance work by Mr and Ms L. Mr L feels that this 
comment shows the property wasnt rentable.
In my opinion a comment about not wanting to live in a property doesnt mean its 
uninhabitable. And ultimately it was deemed the property was habitable and Ive 
explained above why I think it was fair the claim for loss of rent was declined.
Mr L was unhappy that following one of his complaints to SAI he didnt receive a 
response. When chasing this he was told by SAI it was sent on 14 November 2019. 
A copy was sent to Mr L but when he received it, the copy letter had the date 8 
January 2020  the date the advisor had requested it rather than when it was 
originally sent. When Mr L queried this, he was given some incorrect information by 
the advisor about why this happened.
Although I can appreciate Mr Ls frustrations regarding this, I can see from SAIs 
systems that the original letter was generated and sent on 14 November and Mr Ls 
complaint had been addressed. I also note when Mr L called to discuss his concerns, 
a different advisor explained what he thinks had happened and apologised for this. I 
dont feel this had any overall impact on the claim or the handling of Mr and Ms Ls 
complaints as Im satisfied their complaint points were answered. So, I wont be 
asking SAI to do anything further regarding this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SAI responded to the provisional decision to say it had no further comments. Mr and Ms L 
havent responded. As no further comments were received from the parties, Im satisfied that 
my provisional decision represents an outcome thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman