DRN-2832367
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs B applied online for an M&S credit card in May 2018, following a referral from a 
comparison website. This was approved with a limit of £2000. In July 2018, the direct debit 
for payments to the card was returned and cancelled. She fell into arrears.
Mrs B complained that she shouldnt have been given the card in the first place  she was 
struggling with other debts, and M&S shouldve been aware of this when they agreed to give 
her the card. She had been on a debt relief order in the past.
M&S said theyd completed all their necessary credit checks when Mrs B applied for the 
card. These included checks at credit reference agencies (CRAs) - and none of the 
information at the time was found to be a problem. And the credit card was a non-advised 
sale  so it was up to Mrs B to choose the product she wanted and go ahead with her 
application.  
Mrs B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said he didnt consider that M&S had 
shown that theyd carried out the necessary, proportionate checks. Mrs Bs credit file showed 
she had three debt management company arrangements in place (one of which had 
defaulted) and there were arrears with a utility company. So  he said that based on this 
evidence, Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. M&S should refund all interest and fees 
debited to the card (plus interest at 8% per annum simple), delete any adverse entries from 
her credit file, and put a repayment plan in place. Also, compensation of £50 should be paid 
for distress and inconvenience.
M&S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at Mrs Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says she was in financial difficulty when she applied for the card from M&S. She had 
several other debts with other borrowers. So  she shouldnt have been given the card. I can 
see that she quickly fell into arrears shortly after taking the card. Various payment plans 
have been agreed, and largely these have failed  I wont go into these as the crux of Mrs 
Bs complaint is that M&S shouldnt have given her the card in the first place  so thats what 
I will concentrate on.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether M&S 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
M&S said that theyd completed their credit checks, and these were all OK. But they havent 
told us what these were, nor shown us any CRA searches they carried out. They havent 
shown us Mrs Bs application form  as this was done online and hasnt been retained with 
the passage of time. So  M&S cant show whether it lent responsibly and in line with FCA 
guidance, or not.
We looked at Mrs Bs credit file. As at the date of Mrs Bs application to M&S, these show 
three entries to debt management companies  one of these was in default. We must 
presume M&S also saw these. And  there were several months arrears with a utility 
company  which must have suggested there were problems. All of this would suggest that 
M&S shouldve carried out further checks to ensure the lending was OK  but they didnt.
 I can see that Mrs B competed an income and expenditure form for M&S in April 2020. This 
shows debts (other than M&S) of £11650 and disposable income of only £26 per month. So 
 its possible that some of these debts were in place at the time of Mrs Bs application to 
M&S. But I place no great reliance on this as its dated two years after the card was issued.
So  I agree that based on what weve seen, M&S didnt carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure the lending to Mrs B was provided responsibly. And therefore, Im upholding her 
complaint.
Putting things right
Its not appropriate that we ask M&S to write off any of the lending  as Mrs B has had the 
use of the money. But they should refund all interest and fees debited to the account since 
the card was issued to the date of this decision. If this results in a credit balance, then 8% 
per annum simple interest should be added to this from the date where overpayment 
resulted in a credit balance. And, if a debt still remains, M&S should agree a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan for its repayment. And delete any adverse entries at CRAs. And  
as this has clearly caused Mrs B a good degree of worry, they should pay £50 for distress 
and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank must:
Refund all interest and charges on the card from its issue to the date of this decision.
If this results in a credit balance, add 8% per annum simple to this from the date of 
overpayment.
Agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan for the remaining debt  if there is one 
after the refunds.
Delete any adverse entries from Mrs Bs credit file.Pay compensation of £50 to Mrs B for distress and inconvenience. Mrs B should 
advise how this should be paid  to which bank account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman