DRN-3789659
The complaint
Mr F complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) didnt do enough to protect him when 
he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
In March 2022, Mr F was tricked into transferring funds to a scammer and into 
making card payments to a cryptocurrency exchange provider. 
Mr F was led to believe he was speaking to another bank before being passed over 
to Starling. He made these payments with the intention of protecting his funds and 
those of his girlfriend, after being misled into thinking his accounts had been 
compromised via his WiFi. 
After realising hed been the victim of a scam, Mr F contacted Starling. While it 
contacted the beneficiary bank to try to recover the funds, it was unsuccessful. 
Starling believes it acted appropriately overall so hasnt agreed to refund the lost 
funds. Unhappy with this, Mr F complained to our Service. 
The investigator explained the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code 
which Starling has signed up to  and that this would have applied to three of the 
payments made  as they were faster payments made to a third party. But she felt 
Starling had fairly applied an exception to reimbursement  namely that Mr F didnt 
have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. The remaining two 
payments didnt fall under CRM as they were card payments to a cryptocurrency 
exchange provider. 
Ultimately, the investigator didnt think Starling ought to have done more than it did 
as she didnt consider the overall activity significantly large or unusual. So, she didnt 
recommend that Starling refund the money. And she concluded it had done enough 
in terms of attempts to recover the funds. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F asked for a decision. Following this, he also made us aware 
of circumstances and health-related matters which he says left him vulnerable to the 
scam. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator  Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mr F has been the victim of a scam. But its also not in dispute that he 
authorised these payments, albeit unaware that he was making payments to a scam. So Ive 
first considered whether the three applicable payments should be refunded under the CRM 
code. 
The CRM code says, in summary, that a customer who was vulnerable when they made an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam payment should receive a full refund of that 
payment, regardless of whether the firm knew about the customers vulnerability before the 
scam took place. Vulnerability has a specific definition under the code, which isnt the same 
as other definitions (such as that of the financial regulator). The code says a customer is 
vulnerable if:
it would not be reasonable to expect that Customer to have protected themselves, at the 
time of becoming victim of an APP scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of 
the impact they suffered.
Ive carefully considered the evidence Ive been provided, as well as the point at which our 
Service was given the details of the vulnerability. And Im not persuaded that Mr F couldnt 
reasonably be expected to have protected himself from the scam because of the 
vulnerabilities. The fact these circumstances were raised so late makes me think Mr F cant 
have seen these as key to his actions at the time. Nor do I think the circumstances hes 
raised rendered him unable to take steps to consider the scam risk. Having said that, there 
are further considerations under CRM besides vulnerability, which Ill move on to.
Under the provisions of the CRM code, both the bank and its customer have obligations. If it 
can be shown that the customer has met their requisite level of care, they will be fully 
reimbursed. If the customer has not done this, its for the firm to show that its met its 
obligations under the Code. The most relevant obligation for the firm is to provide an 
effective warning. If a firm hasnt met its obligations, subject to any liability of the bank 
which received the money, it will be liable for 50% of the customers loss.
In terms of whether Starling met its requirement to provide an effective warning, I dont 
consider that it did. But, having identified a potential risk, Starling asked Mr F a series of 
questions before processing the payments in relation to the purposes and recipients of the 
payments. Seemingly, Mr F was coached into providing incorrect responses to indicate that 
he was paying family or friends, that payments were for rent, bills and gifts  all of which 
were incorrect. But this means that Starling was prevented from giving an effective warning 
as it wasnt provided with answers to accurately reflect the situation. So, for this reason, Im 
not persuaded Starling has failed to meet the standards set under the CRM Code in not 
providing an effective warning. 
In terms of Mr Fs obligations, Starling has argued that he made payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief that the person he was transacting with was legitimate. In thinking 
about this, Ive noted the following:
the caller purported to be from one bank before handing over to Starling; 
the caller talked about how the accounts had been compromised due to the WiFi; 
in attempting the keep the account safe, Mr F transferred funds to named people he 
didnt know; 
he was directed to enter in payment references such as happy birthday and 
refurbishment and to select that payments were being made to family members or 
friends; 
the confirmation of payees didnt match or couldnt be checked;
Mr F was asked to transfer his girlfriends funds too; and
Mr F was provided with a warning stating that fraudsters tell customers how to answer questions and that a genuine organisation would never ask a customer to 
move money to a new, safe bank account. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mr F had a reasonable basis for belief on this 
occasion. While, individually, some of the points above would be reasonably believable, Im 
not persuaded that the scenario as a whole was, when these are all considered in 
combination. Of particular relevance here would be the belief that Starling would ask Mr F to 
select incorrect payment purposes despite this linking through to its own systems, and direct 
him to make payments to payees with names besides his own  which then couldnt be 
verified. Also of relevance would be the belief that Starling would suggest that another 
individual give Mr F access to their funds. And that a warning reflecting the situation Mr F 
was in was presented to him but that he continued anyway. So, given all of this, I agree with 
Starling that the exception to reimbursement applies. 
While I dont think the payments should be reimbursed under CRM, Ive thought about the 
usual APP considerations for these payments. So, the starting position is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. But 
there are times where a bank might be expected to question a transaction, even though it 
might have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Starling have certain 
obligations to protect customers from fraud. 
Starling has said that it did consider the payments to have been unusual and that this 
prompted an additional review process before any payments were released. And, as a 
result, before each of the faster payments, Mr F was presented with the following warning:
Are you being told to make this payment? Anyone telling you what buttons to click, or 
asking you to read the text on this screen out loud is a criminal. You must not make the 
payment if you are being told how to answer the questions or explain the payment. Read 
each question carefully and answer truthfully, otherwise you could lose all the money sent. 
The evidence provided shows Mr F responded with I understand.
Despite entering incorrect information, he was then provided with the following warning:
Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam you. A genuine organisation 
will never do this. A bank or any other organisation will never tell you to move money to a 
new, safe bank account. Fraudsters can make phone calls appear to come from a different 
number. Are you speaking with who you think you are? If in doubt you can call us
Again, Mr F responded with I understand. 
Im satisfied that Starlings intervention was proportionate and I dont think reasonable further 
or different attempts to intervene would likely have resulted in a different outcome  I think 
Mr F was under the spell of the scammer and would have proceeded regardless. The 
warnings, which largely matched the situation he was in, werent enough to deter him from 
making the payments. And we already know that he provided false information under the 
instruction of the scammer. 
Moving on to the card payments, I can see that two payments were made to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange provider, so I wouldnt have expected the merchant to have been 
of concern to Starling. And neither payment was particularly large so I wouldnt have 
expected these to have alerted Starling to a potential fraud risk. But, crucially, given that 
Mr F had provided incorrect information when questioned on the earlier payments, Im not 
satisfied that an intervention by Starling with these payments would have resulted in 
stopping Mr F from making these card payments.  For completeness, I would note that, for both payments, Mr F would have been presented 
with a message stating:
Starling will never contact you and ask you to use this screen. If someone is telling you to 
approve this transaction, please tap Reject Payment and contact customer service. 
So, based on all the evidence Ive been provided with, I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Starling responsible for any of these payments. I wouldnt expect it to have taken any further 
action in terms of intervening prior to processing the payments. 
With regards to recovery, Starling contacted the beneficiary bank but was unable to recover 
any funds. And, in relation to the card payments, a chargeback would have been 
unsuccessful due to the scheme rules and the payments being made to a legitimate 
merchant. So, Im satisfied that Starling did enough to attempt to recover the funds.
While I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr F, and Im sorry hes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint. So, I 
wont be asking Starling to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman