DRN-4224166
The complaint
Mrs K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) suspended her 
account and ultimately closed her account without treating her fairly. 
Mrs K is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs K herself.
What happened
Mrs K says Amex suspended her account without telling her. She received a letter the 
following week informing her they were carrying out a review and they wanted information, 
which she provided to them. Amex later sent her a notice of their intention to close her 
account, and they sent her a notice of default despite her not missing any repayments. She 
also lost out on cashback she had earned whilst the account was open. Mrs K made a 
complaint to Amex.
Amex did not uphold Mrs Ks complaint. They said the review of her account had been 
conducted in accordance with their procedures and the terms and conditions. Amex said 
they were able to pass the account to a Debt Collection Agency (DCA), but if payments were 
kept up to date there shouldnt be any adverse impact on her credit file. Mrs K brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ks complaint. She said the terms and conditions of the 
account show Amex can suspend an account and they can notify Mrs K beforehand or 
immediately after, which they wrote to her on the same day they suspended the account. 
She said Amex have a duty to complete ongoing checks on a customers account and the 
account was closed following the review of the account, with a default notice issued on 23 
January 2023. Our investigator said Amex hadnt registered a default or adverse information 
on Mrs Ks credit file. She said the terms also state that any cashback is lost if the account 
has been closed in line with the terms, so she was unable to ask Amex to pay this to Mrs K.
Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint as she said the way Amex 
conducted themselves in what happened here did not align with treating customers fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs K has said about Amex not treating her fairly. As part of treating 
customers fairly, I would expect Amex to act in line with the credit agreement. After all, this is 
what both parties agreed to be bound to. 
Ive looked at the credit agreement to see what this says about notifications if an account is 
suspended. Under the Suspending your account section of Mrs Ks credit agreement it 
states We'll normally notify you beforehand or immediately afterwards and may provide you 
with the reasons. So Im satisfied that Amex were not obliged to let Mrs K know her account 
was suspended before they suspended her account. While Im sympathetic to any 
embarrassment this could cause Mrs K if she tried to use her card to pay for something, only 
to find out her account has been suspended, I cant say that Amex have acted outside of the 
credit agreement here.
I can see that Amex sent Mrs K a letter notifying her about the suspension of the account on 
13 January 2023. It appears from the system evidence that I have received from Amex, that 
this was the date her card was suspended, so Im satisfied that Amex let Mrs K know 
immediately afterwards that her account was suspended.
After Amex had completed their review of Mrs Ks account, they decided to end the 
agreement, which the credit agreement shows they can do this immediately in some 
instances. I dont find that Amex have acted against the credit agreement by doing this, 
although I could understand why this could be upsetting for Mrs K to receive a notice of 
default  especially as she hadnt missed any payments and she wasnt in any arrears on 
the account. As the credit agreement says we may close your account and require you to 
repay immediately all amounts you owe us under this agreement in full together with any 
interest and charges that apply, then a notice of default would set this out to Mrs K.
Ive looked at the letter Amex sent Mrs K on 23 January 2023. This shows they were ending 
the agreement and why. It told her they would be terminating the agreement at any time on 
or after 9 February 2023. The letter sets out that they will serve her notice to her to demand 
the repayment of the outstanding balance and it displays the outstanding balance at the time 
of the letter. It also shows they could refer her account to a DCA. Ive looked at the credit 
agreement and this shows We may sell, transfer or assign this agreement and your 
account. We may do so at any time without notifying you. So I dont find that Amex have 
acted against the credit agreement here. 
Although this letter said notice of default, its important to note that a default was not 
reported on Mrs Ks credit file. Amex followed this letter with another letter dated 11 
February 2023. This letter was a formal demand for the outstanding balance. This letter set 
out the next steps, so Im not persuaded Amex treated Mrs K unfairly by following the credit 
agreement when an account is closed by them as this sets out they would require you to 
repay immediately all amounts you owe us under this agreement. 
I have considered that Amex did say on this letter that after 28 days steps may be taken to 
register the default status of her account to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). So this 
could have appeared to Mrs K that her account had been defaulted. Amex are required to 
use certain wording for regulatory letters, so Im not persuaded they could have tailored this 
specific letter for Mrs Ks specific circumstances here. If she was unable to pay the full 
amount, then if she informed Amex she couldnt afford to pay the balance all at once I would 
expect them (and/or the DCA if the account was passed to them) to show her forbearance 
and work with Mrs K based on her financial situation. But I can see that the outstanding 
balance was paid prior to the 28 days of the letter expiring.
What is important to note here is that Amex have a regulatory duty to provide the CRAs with 
accurate information. So while Mrs K could be under the impression her credit file may be 
affected by what happened, the reality is that she didnt miss any payments and she cleared 
the outstanding balance before the 28 days they said they may notify the CRAs. And Amex 
have confirmed they didnt report any adverse information to the CRAs. 
Ive considered what Mrs K has said about the cashback that she had earned on the account 
prior to it being closed. The credit agreement covers this off under the What happens if we 
close your Card Account? section of the credit agreement. It says If we close your Card 
Account in accordance with the Card Account Agreement, you will lose the Cashback that has been earned but not yet been applied to your Card Account as an annual credit. So Im 
not persuaded that Amex acted outside of the credit agreement and Im not persuaded they 
treated her unfairly here. So it follows I dont require Amex to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman