DRN-3772381
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of repairs arranged by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) as well as the standard of service he received following a claim he made 
under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr H had an accident whilst driving his car. He contacted Admiral and it 
arranged for the repairs to be completed. Mr H noticed some issues with the repairs and 
arranged for the car to be returned for these to be resolved. This happened several times. 
Mr H says that in all it took around 60 days for the issues with his car to be resolved.
Mr H says the garage carrying out the repairs spoke rudely to him. He also says Admiral 
showed little empathy toward him during the duration of his claim. 
Admiral says Mr H reported a faulty mirror, a colour mismatch with the front bumper, a rattle 
in the drivers side door, and a tyre pressure warning light that was on. It says the bumper 
mouldings had to be replaced and this contrasted with the older wing mouldings. Admiral 
says its garage stripped the door but found no issues. A replacement tyre pressure sensor 
was fitted as the old one was faulty. However, Admiral says this wasnt related to the claim 
damage. 
Admiral apologised that Mr H felt the garage had been rude to him. But it says there was no 
complaint raised with the garage and it had no evidence of this. 
In its complaint response Admiral says it accepts its claims team shouldve contacted Mr H 
once he notified it of the issues he had experienced. It says it could then have ensured he 
was satisfied with how the repairs had been completed. It says feedback has been provided 
internally on this point and it apologised for the perceived lack of remorse and interest shown 
by its staff. Admiral offered Mr H £150 compensation for these failings and £50 for a delay in 
its complaint handling. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says there was no evidence following the further 
investigations by the garage that remedial work had to be carried out in relation to the claim 
damage. Our investigator thought the compensation offered by Admiral was reasonable for 
the poor service Admiral had identified. 
Mr H disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
It must have been distressing for Mr H to have been involved in a car accident. I can 
understand that he expected the subsequent repairs to be handled effectively. My remit here 
is to consider whether Admiral behaved reasonably in handling his claim and arranging for 
repairs to be carried out by its appointed garage. Ive read the records supplied by Admiral in 
conjunction with the testimony and information supplied by Mr H to understand what 
happened. 
Mr Hs car was taken to the repairing garage at the beginning of November 2021. I can see 
from the inspection report and the attached photos that the damage was to the front, drivers 
side of the car. This meant sections of the bumper had to be replaced. Mr H raised concerns 
that the repaired sections hadnt been blended to match with the original parts of the car. 
I can see that Admiral asked the garage for an explanation for the mismatch. It responded to 
say that the issue Mr H highlighted in the colour wasnt related to the paint. It replaced the 
bumper mouldings with new ones, and there was a difference compared with the older wing 
mouldings. It says no work was undertaken to remedy this issue. The garage describes how 
the colour difference can be caused by a number of different factors. This includes wear and 
tear of the original parts, the products used when cleaning the car, as well as weather 
conditions.  
I havent seen any images of the car after the repairs. So, I havent seen the colour 
difference Mr H refers to. I understand his car has now been returned to him and he isnt 
seeking for further repairs to be carried out. Mr H mentions, in his response to our 
investigators findings, that he was worn down after three repair attempts and decided not to 
mention the colour mismatch further.   
Im sorry Mr H was dissatisfied with this aspect of the repair work. Based on the information 
Ive seen the garages explanation seems reasonable as to why there was a colour 
difference between the new components that were added and those that were existing. I 
note its comments that this isnt something that required remedial action. As I mentioned 
above, Mr H hasnt provided evidence to show the difference in colour, so I cant comment 
further on this point. But I dont think its been shown that the garage acted improperly here 
when using the replacement parts, it did, as part of the repair work.   
Mr H initially reported that there was a problem with a mirror not working. However, this was 
resolved prior to his car being returned to the garage. So, I neednt consider this point 
further.
I understand that when Mr Hs car was returned to him, he noticed the drivers side door had 
developed a rattling noise. Also, that the tyre pressure sensor had developed a fault. 
When the car was returned to the garage it says it stripped the drivers side door to identify if 
there was an issue. It says it checked that everything was secure but didnt find the cause of 
a rattling noise. Other than taking the door apart it says nothing else was done to the door. 
Admiral says there is nothing to prove that the stripping of the door resolved anything. 
I think it was reasonable for Admiral to arrange for the rattle to be investigated. I dont doubt 
what Mr H says about the noise coming from the door. Its possible that the act of stripping 
and reassembling the door solved the rattling noise. Although I note Admirals view that no 
issues were found, and it doesnt think what its garage did will have had any effect. 
I dont think its been shown that Admiral treated Mr H unfairly in relation to this point. Its 
unfortunate that Mr H had to report an issue after the initial repairs were completed. It hasnt clearly been shown that there was an issue with the door as a result of the repairs. And I 
think in the circumstances described Admiral acted reasonably.   
In response to the tyre pressure sensor, the garage says it had no need to change the wheel 
or tyre as a result of the accident damage. It says the old sensor was faulty. As a goodwill 
gesture it ordered a new sensor and fitted it to the car. The garage says the vehicle was then 
road tested to ensure the warning light no longer illuminated. 
From what I understand the sensor had to be ordered. Mr H received his car back whilst this 
was done, and the car was returned to the garage for a third time for the sensor to be fitted.
Im not an expert in this area, so I must rely on the opinion of those who are. The engineers 
at Admirals appointed garage determined the sensor fault wasnt an issue that was related 
to Mr Hs claim. I understand he doesnt accept this explanation. But based on the 
information Ive seen I dont think Admiral has treated him unfairly in relation to this point. 
The pressure sensor was replaced as a goodwill gesture, which I think was reasonable. 
Admiral has apologised that Mr H felt its appointed garage had been rude to him. And that it 
wasnt accommodating with respect to when his car would be delivered. I think its fair that 
an apology was provided. Admiral has offered to investigate further if Mr H can supply 
information to support this point. Again, I think this is fair. Ive read the log notes supplied by 
Admiral, but there arent any records that reveal more about what was said or the manner in 
which it was said. I dont dispute Mr Hs recollection of his interactions with the garage. Im 
sorry he was upset by the standard of communication. But based on the information 
presented, I think Admiral has behaved reasonably in acknowledging this point with an 
apology. 
Turning to Mr Hs complaint about the lack of remorse and the lack of contact when 
problems were reported with the repairs, I can see Admiral accepts it couldve handled this 
aspect of his claim better. It apologised and offered £150 compensation to acknowledge this. 
Having read all of the contact notes, I think its clear Mr H was anxious to have his car 
returned and was frustrated by the issues he had reported with the repairs. In these 
circumstances I think a higher standard of care wouldve been helpful to ensure Mr H felt 
supported and appropriately updated. Because it didnt do this, I think its fair that Admiral 
apologised. I also think the compensation it paid in relation to these failings is reasonable. 
I note Mr Hs comments that he didnt receive a courtesy car during the repairs. This isnt 
something raised in his initial complaint to Admiral. Mr H is aware that he needs to raise this 
with Admiral directly. If he isnt satisfied with its response, he can then ask our service to 
consider his complaint.   
I note our investigator refers to Admiral paying £200 compensation to Mr H. £50 of this 
relates to issues with its complaint handling. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity by 
itself, so Im not able to consider issues relating to this. But I am satisfied that the 
compensation and apologies already provided represent a reasonable outcome to Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Mr H says his partner has a health condition, which can mean he is vulnerable. He says 
Admiral didnt ask appropriate questions to identify if his partner had a disability. Im sorry to 
hear that Mr H was upset by the lack of appropriate questioning. I can see he emailed 
Admiral in February 2022 regarding information he was sent about historical premiums paid 
by him and his partner. He says his partners health condition means the information 
provided is difficult to understand. Ive thought carefully about the concerns Mr H has raised here. My understanding is that he 
handled all contact with Admiral relating to his claim. Mr H hasnt advised that has a health 
condition that means he should be considered vulnerable. My remit here is to consider Mr 
Hs complaint as the policyholder. So, although I have considered this point, I dont think its 
relevant to Mr Hs complaint about his policy.      
In summary, I think Admiral arranged the repairs of Mr Hs car fairly and in line with its policy 
terms. I think its standard of communication and the use of empathy has been lacking at 
times. But I think the apology and compensation it provided is fair in relation to these points. 
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman