DRN-2823156
The complaint
Ms H complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined cover for 
a claim she made on a home insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with how the claim has 
been handled.
 
What happened
Where I refer to AA in this decision, this includes its appointed agents and representatives.
Ms H insures her home with a policy provided by AA. She made a claim on her policy when 
she discovered damage which appeared to have been caused by water.
AA visited the property on a number of occasions and concluded that there was damage 
caused by water, but the source of this couldnt be established. It said that as no leak could 
be located, it was unable to cover the claim. 
Ms H disputed this and referred a complaint to our service. She was unhappy not only with 
the decision to decline cover for the claim but also the way that the claim had been handled 
by AA. 
Our investigator thought that AA had acted fairly when it declined cover for the claim. She 
said that she was persuaded that the investigations carried out hadnt identified a leak at the 
property, or any cause for the damage which was covered by the policy. But she did agree 
that the handling of the claim could have been better. She recognised the impact of this. She 
thought, however, that the offer made by AA to make a goodwill payment equivalent to the 
cost to repair the damage was sufficient in the circumstances.
Ms H didnt accept this. After our investigator gave her view, her son said hed carried out 
investigations and located a leak at the property. AA said that, in the circumstances, it 
thought it appropriate for an expert to attend Ms Hs property and carry out further 
investigations. Our investigator thought this was an appropriate suggestion. Ms H said that 
the enquiries were taking too long and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Hs policy covers loss or damage to the building caused by water or oil as a result of a 
burst, leaking or overflowing domestic water or hearing installation, appliance or piping.
Its accepted by Ms H that this is the relevant section of the policy under which shes made 
this claim. It follows that, in order for a claim under this section to be covered, there needs to 
be an identifiable leak causing the damage.
I can see that AA has sent a number of different representatives to the property and none of 
their investigations have established an identifiable leak or other source of water causing this 
damage. Its been suggested (but not confirmed) that the damage may be caused by rising 
damp, which wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Im aware that Ms Hs son has said that hes identified a leak at the property. A builder 
engaged by Ms H has also said that they dont believe the damage is caused by rising 
damp, but couldnt comment on what the cause of the damage was. I dont think that either 
of these further investigations is, on its own, enough for me to say that the claim should be 
covered. The builder doesnt identify a leak or other source for the damage which would be 
covered by the policy. And Ms Hs son is not a trained plumber or other expert in this matter, 
and in any case couldnt be considered independent.
AAs suggested, that in light of her sons comments and investigations, it would ask an 
independent expert to attend Ms Hs property to seek to ascertain definitively what is causing 
the damage. I think this is a reasonable proposition.
Ms H doesnt want this to happen, and thinks that enough evidence has been provided to 
mean the claim should be covered now. I dont agree. Im satisfied AA acted reasonably 
when it declined cover when no leak or other covered source of the damage could be 
identified, and theres been no categorical, independent evidence to suggest to me that this 
isnt the case.
I do agree that the claim could have been handled better. There have been unreasonable 
delays to the enquiries and Ms H hasnt been kept updated as to the progress of the claim, 
meaning that shes had to contact AA for updates. AA offered to make a goodwill payment to 
her to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused of £2844.43. This was the 
equivalent of what it had calculated to be the costs of repairing the damage which had been 
noted on one of its visits. 
Im aware that the damage has worsened, and the costs of repairing this are now likely to be 
higher. But as Ive said, I dont think that AA acted unreasonably when it declined cover for 
the claim. I think the amount offered by AA suitably recognises the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms H.
  
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman