DRN-2327925
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) has offered as compensation to settle 
her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, taken out 
alongside her credit card.
What happened
background
Mrs B opened her credit card account in September 1988 and at the same time took out a 
PPI policy associated with that account. The PPI policy was paid for by monthly premiums 
added to the account, and interest at the card rate was charged on those premiums.
 
Mrs B complained to Lloyds in 2019, that the PPI had been mis-sold. Lloyds agreed to 
uphold the complaint and worked out the compensation due for the mis-sold policy.
Lloyds wrote to Mrs B and offered and paid compensation of £14,582.10 after tax, giving 
some covering information of what the offer included. Mrs B said the offer had not been 
calculated in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance and should be 
substantially more. So she brought her complaint to this service.
Mrs B had some old statements for the account, and our adjudicator re-sent these 
statements to Lloyds. Lloyds used the information from the statements to recalculate the 
compensation due and this came in total to £15,111.92 after tax. So Lloyds said it needed to 
pay a further £590.34 to Mrs B after tax for the compensation.
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had now offered in compensation was fair. Mrs B did not 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the business has upheld the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I am not 
looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what Lloyds has 
calculated for the compensation for the mis-sold PPI, is correct and fair. 
I am only looking at the mis-sold PPI and what would be fair compensation for Lloyds to pay 
to Mrs B for the mis-sale. I am not in this decision considering issues Mrs B has raised 
relating to any service or any process used during the investigation. These would have to be 
dealt with separately as a service complaint. I have looked at all the evidence provided by 
both parties to reach a decision on what I consider to be fair compensation.
When looking at compensation for mis-sold PPI we expect a business, as far as possible, to 
put the consumer in the position they would have been in if they had not taken out the PPI. 
This means refunding all the PPI premiums added to the account and paid by the consumer, 
plus card rate interest caused by those premiums being added to the account. In addition, 
for any times a consumer was out of pocket for the costs of the PPI the business must pay 
compensatory interest. This is in line with DISP Rules, to which Mrs B has referred.
At the time businesses were establishing calculators related to PPI compensation, this 
service considered the approach being taken within the calculators and agreed various 
approaches were fair. The calculator and process that Lloyds uses has been agreed to take 
a fair approach overall, to work out compensation in line with the rules of the FCA.
Lloyds does not have full data for Mrs Bs account for the whole period it was open. 
Businesses are only legally required to keep full records for a period of up to six year. This 
credit card account opened in 1988 which was over 30 years ago so it isnt surprising Lloyds 
doesnt have the full account records. What it does have is a copy of the credit card 
agreement and then full account data from January 2000. 
I know Mrs B has questioned why the business has the credit agreement from the start of 
the account but not other full account data. I would state that this is quite common with many 
businesses, that the initial records to open an account are held in archives, but not full 
account data. So there is nothing untoward about this.
When making its first calculation Lloyds input into its purpose-built calculator the data it held 
for Mrs Bs account from January 2000 through to October 2019. For the period from 
September 1988 to January 2000 it had to estimate the possible balances and PPI costs that 
may have been on the account and use these estimates in its calculator. Looking at its 
calculation it seems it made these estimates on a reducing balance basis. This is considered 
to be a fair approach. It reflects that most people who take out credit cards start with a zero 
balance and over time may increase their spend and their credit card limit. Where there is no 
data or only limited data this approach can be fairly used to make some estimates.
This approach in using the data Lloyds had on its system and the estimates it made, resulted 
in the compensation amount of £14,582.10 being calculated after tax.
But Mrs B had some statements that were from the period between September 1988 and 
December 1999, before the data that Lloyds had on its system started. Mrs B had, it seems, 
sent these to Lloyds when initially making her complaint, but the automated system used for 
sending the complaint did not permit Lloyds to access the statements. When Mrs B brought 
her complaint to this service, we re-sent these statements Mrs B had provided and Lloyds 
did a recalculation using the information from the statements.
This meant that during the period for which Lloyds held no data in its system it was able to 
input the actual data from the statements, rather than use estimates of the possible account 
data, for some of the months. Although for any time when there was no statement, estimates 
still had to be made. This resulted in a new compensation offer of £15,111.92 after tax. As 
Lloyds had already made the payment of £14,582.10 to Mrs B this meant a further payment 
of £590.34 was due, to pay the full compensation amount.
Looking at the final calculation provided by Lloyds I can see in its updated calculation it has 
amended the input data to reflect the actual data on the statements Mrs B provided. This 
calculation then showed that if the credit card account was reconstructed to show the 
account as if no PPI (or interest caused by it) was ever included in the account balance, 
Mrs B would have paid £7,878.58 less than she actually did. This is seen in the calculation 
as the difference between the payments made of £7,807.73, plus the difference between the 
account balances, with and without PPI, at the date of refund which was £70.85.This amount was made up of all the PPI premiums and interest caused by them. This can 
also be seen by taking the total premiums paid, as shown on the calculation, of £2,845.67 
and adding to this the interest caused by these premiums of £5,032.91, which again gives 
the figure of £7,878.58. The interest caused by the PPI can be worked out by taking the total 
interest ever charged to the account for all spending, which was £8,148.33 and taking from 
this figure the amount in the reconstructed account for the total interest that should have 
been paid with no PPI, which is £3,115.42. Which gives the £5,032.91 interest caused by the 
PPI being in the balance. 
So Lloyds offered to repay this total cost of the PPI of £7,878.58 plus compensatory interest 
on this amount for any time Mrs B was out of pocket for the costs. Lloyds worked this 
compensatory interest out as £9,041.67 before tax. This takes into account where Mrs B 
paid more than she would have done if she had not had the PPI on the account and also the 
credit balance that would have been on the account. 
Looking at everything Lloyds has done I think its calculation is fair and in line with what I 
would expect when calculating compensation for the mis-sold PPI. So I think what Lloyds 
has offered overall, that is £15,111.92 after tax, is fair compensation.
I know from the detailed information and responses Mrs B has submitted that she does not 
agree that it the case. I have taken account of all Mrs Bs submissions about the PPI 
calculations and also looked at her own calculations which she believes represent the 
methodology required by the FCA. 
I dont think the calculation Mrs B has carried our, which was only covering the period 1991 
to 2013 for which she had statements, was a fair reconstruction and I dont think it identified 
a fair amount of compensation. 
Mrs B has indicated that she worked out the total PPI premiums were £2,519.95. In addition, 
she says she should also be refunded the total PPI interest and over payments, which she 
has calculated as £76,356.91. She also calculated £23,486 of compensatory interest was 
due, giving total compensation of £100,363.48 from her calculation. 
The calculation from the business, as I have indicated above, shows that the overpayments 
made by Mrs B, match the totals of the PPI premiums and interest calculated as caused by 
the PPI.  Any over payments made to the account included the PPI premiums and interest 
caused by them. But Mrs Bs calculation would appear to be refunding the PPI costs and 
interest more than once. Also, as the total interest ever paid on the account for all spending 
only comes to £8,148.33, the interest caused by the PPI could not be more than the interest 
ever paid in total on the account.
I would also indicate that the total payments Mrs B actually paid to the account whilst it was 
active is shown as £19,652.99. This was for everything she ever spent on the card, the PPI 
premiums and all interest added to the balances for her spend and the PPI. So, the PPI 
costs and overpayments Mrs B may have made, cannot exceed everything she ever paid 
and come to £76,356.91.  Therefore, I cannot see that the calculation approach Mrs B has 
taken results in a fair amount of redress for the PPI premiums and interest. 
Late payment fees are not directly caused by the PPI. When considering if fees should be 
refunded the approach it to look at each month of the account to see what caused the fees. 
If Mrs B made a late payment, the fact that the account included PPI would have made no 
difference to the date her payment was made. I note Mrs B argues that if the reconstructed 
balance were used then no payment would have been due. But this reconstruction is done to 
work out the costs of the PPI that need refunding and the times when a consumer may have 
been out of pocket. It is not changing what actually happened at the time. So, it is considered fair to take the approach that Mrs B would have acted in the same way at the 
time and made late payments. 
On the information provided by the business, and on the statements, I cannot see any 
charges for over limit fees. On the bank calculations that Mrs B has provided with her own 
comments and figures it would appear that one £20 fee is shown for being over limit on 
1 May 2000. I cannot see this figure on the actual calculations submitted by the business to 
this service directly, and no charge for being over the credit limit is shown on the statement 
for this month  May 2000.
I would add that for a PPI premium to directly cause an over limit fee, the month where the 
fee is charged is considered. If the actual PPI premium added to the account in that 
particular month is the sole reason the balance of the account exceeds the credit limit, then 
the PPI would have been the direct cause of the over limit fee. This fee would then be 
refunded. But that is not what happened in this case. 
Mrs B has raised a number of points, most of which are covered in what I have already said 
but I shall try to cover some of her other specific concerns about the calculation.
Regarding her concern about the interest included in the calculation on 01/07/09, I would 
clarify that £44.58 interest was charged in July 2009, but then a refund of £43.89 was made. 
So only the difference between the amount charged and the amount refunded, that is 
£0.69p, is taken into account in the calculation. 
Mrs B says it is wrong that in the reconstruction of the account, that on the 01/11/20 Lloyds 
has used £991.07 of a £1000 payment as an overpayment instead of allocating the £1,000 
payment against the balance. This has been done on the basis that the balance on the 
reconstructed account, which is to reflect the balance without PPI in it, was only £8.93. 
Therefore, Mrs B would not have made a payment of £1,000 if her balance was only £8.93, 
she would have just paid the balance amount of £8.93. It can be seen also in the calculation 
that as Mrs B overpaid the balance by £991.07, compensatory interest of £1,506.43 on this 
over payment has been calculated. This is included in the total compensatory interest for the 
overpayments. So this is a fair approach.
Mrs B has said that Lloyds indicated in a form submitted to this service it didnt know the 
date of the PPI. The form I have seen from the business states The credit card opened on 
1 August 1988 and PPI is confirmed on the CCA Therefore our calculation start date is the 
first purchase date of September 1988.  This does cover the point as to when the PPI 
started, and Lloyds did provide the start date of the PPI.
Mrs B has quoted from the DISP Rules regarding losses caused by failing to disclose 
commission. The commission element of the PPI premium is not relevant in this case as 
Lloyds have refunded the full premium which includes any commission element. With regard 
to losses caused by the PPI premium I have already address this including any fees that 
may have been caused by the PPI being added to or in the balance of the account. 
If Mrs B remains unhappy about any fees charged to her account, as they were not caused 
by the PPI, this issue is unrelated to the PPI, and therefore a separate complaint is 
necessary. I understand Lloyds has responded separately to Mrs B about the late fees issue. 
summary I have considered all the evidence and information that has been submitted in this complaint 
to reach my decision. I have tried to cover most of the main issues raised by Mrs B relating 
to the calculation and her other concerns about the PPI, which I hope may help to reassure 
Mrs B that the calculation carried out by Lloyds is fair. 
This service is an informal dispute resolution service and we do not carry out calculations for 
either party. We look at the evidence and base any decisions on what is fair and reasonable 
in relation to that evidence. 
In this complaint looking at the information from both parties, and taking account of all 
calculations provide, I am satisfied that what Lloyds has calculated, £15,111.92, as the net 
amount due to Mrs B is fair, to refund all the costs of the PPI and provide compensatory 
interest. So I am not upholding this complaint that more compensation is due.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied that the £15,111.92 compensation that 
Lloyds Bank Plc has offered for the mis-sold PPI policy is fair and Im not upholding this 
complaint by Mrs B that additional compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman