DRN-3506703
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide her with 
appropriate advice, or sufficient information, when it discussed her future pension savings 
with her in 1993.
What happened
Mrs C was a teacher. In 1993 she met with Prudential to discuss her pension savings. 
Prudential had identified that Mrs C had previously been advised to leave the teachers 
pension scheme (TPS) and held a personal pension arrangement. It told her it thought that 
advice had been incorrect, and recommended she re-join the TPS. And Prudential advised 
Mrs C to start paying additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) in order to increase her 
retirement provision.
Mrs C accepted Prudentials advice and applied to make AVC contributions in 
December 1993. But she has recently complained that Prudential failed to make her aware 
that she could instead pay additional contributions to the TPS that would purchase added 
years benefits. She says that taking that approach would have been better for her 
circumstances.
Prudential didnt agree with Mrs Cs complaint. It said that it was only required to make sure 
that Mrs C was aware of the added years option  it wasnt permitted to advise her to take 
that approach. It said that the information it, and the TPS, had given to Mrs C provided her 
with an awareness of the added years options so it had met its regulatory responsibilities. 
And it thought that, in any case, paying added years contributions would have been less 
attractive to Mrs C than making AVC payments. So it didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. But 
Prudential accepted that the time it had taken for Mrs Cs calls to be answered when she 
wanted to discuss her pension had been unsatisfactory. So it paid her £75 for the 
inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He said he couldnt 
definitively prove that Prudential had provided all the information to Mrs C that it should 
have. But he didnt think that, even if she had been given all the information, Mrs C would 
have chosen to pay added years contributions instead. At that time he thought it likely that 
she would have concluded that AVCs provided greater benefits at a lower cost. So he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs C and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I should first briefly mention what happened in the early 1990s when Mrs C was 
advised to opt-out of the TPS and open a personal pension instead. Prudential has said that 
it reviewed that advice in 1998 and concluded that it was inappropriate. So, at that time, it 
paid some compensation to allow Mrs C to be reinstated to the TPS for the years she had 
been advised to have a personal pension instead. I think it most likely that compensation 
was appropriate, and the original advice doesnt appear to form any part of the complaint 
Mrs C has now made. So I wont consider it any further in this decision.
In 1989 Prudential was appointed, by the predecessor of the Department for Education 
(DfE), to provide an AVC scheme alongside TPS. The AVC scheme offered teachers the 
opportunity to increase their pension provision at retirement by agreeing monthly deductions 
from their salary that were paid into the Prudential scheme. As part of its contract with the 
DfE Prudential says it was required to make applicants aware of the other pension top up 
options that were available to them.
As I said earlier, Mrs C had been advised to leave the TPS around 1990. But she re-joined 
the scheme in 1993. On joining the scheme Mrs C should have been given a scheme 
information booklet. That booklet provided some information about the ways in which the 
scheme pension could be supplemented by the payment of additional contributions. In 
particular it noted that the three options available were;
Past Added Years
Scheme Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) with the Prudential
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVs)
But I cannot be sure that Mrs C received this booklet, either when she first became a 
teacher, or when she re-joined the TPS in 1993. And of course there is a possibility that, 
even if she had received the booklet, she hadnt read it in any detail.
The advisor that met with Mrs C was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant they 
could only recommend products offered by Prudential  in this case the TPS AVC scheme. 
They couldnt actively recommend any other products from any other product providers 
including the added years option offered by the TPS or other FSAVC products.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at that time 
- LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code 
said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, 
care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the 
interests of investors. It added that businesses should:Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that other contribution options would 
most likely be available to consumers like Mrs C. And in addition to highlighting the benefits 
of the AVC, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic features of the other options.
The application form that Mrs C signed, when applying to pay AVCs, asked her about other 
pension contributions she was making. In particular it asked whether she was already paying 
additional contributions to the TPS for family benefits or past added years, or if she was 
contributing to a free-standing AVC. Whilst I think it most likely that Mrs C didnt complete 
the form herself, I would expect that she read it, or that the advisor checked some of the 
details with her.
On balance I think it most likely that the advisor would have made Mrs C aware that there 
were other contribution options open to her in addition to the Prudential AVC scheme. 
I appreciate that Mrs C might not now remember that conversation in any detail  the advice 
was given to her almost 30 years ago, and over such a lengthy period of time even the most 
careful of memories can, and do, fade. But on balance I think that the added years option 
would have been part of the discussion she had.
It is also likely that, at the time, Mrs C might not have found the added years option to be 
attractive. Generally at that time there was more perceived value in an arrangement that 
depended on investment returns. Expected growth was high and annuity rates were better 
than now, so the expected return was more beneficial than added years. AVC illustrations 
were based on assumed interest rates recommended by the regulator and werent 
unrealistic at the time. And added years were expensive compared to the projected benefits 
of an AVC. Mrs C was 29, so there was less time for her to spread the cost of those. And the 
extra benefits and contributions were fixed, whereas the AVC had flexibility and there was no 
cap on what she could achieve with its investment.
So in summary I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Prudential met its regulatory 
responsibilities in making Mrs C aware that she could pay added years contributions instead. 
But even if that wasnt the case I dont think, at that time, Mrs C would have made a different 
decision. I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, that might not be the case now  
investment returns havent been as strong as were reasonably predicted at the time. But 
I dont think Mrs C would have found the added years option attractive based on the 
reasonable projections that would have been made at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman