DRN-3379824
The complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) unfairly declined to cover his claim 
under his HomeCare home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R had HomeCare insurance with BG from September 2020. This provided cover for 
Boiler and controls breakdown; Plumbing and drains; and Home electrical.
Mr R said he noticed a blockage in his bathroom towards the end of 2020. So he contacted 
his home insurance provider. He said that they came out and identified the problem and 
cleared the blockage. He said that they advised him they couldn't do any further work as his 
policy didn't cover it. 
So Mr R contacted BG. He said that as his Insurance company had already identified the 
problem, using a CCTV survey, he already knew what the problem was when he first spoke 
to BG. He said that based on the information hed given them, BG arranged for the required 
work to be completed December 2020. He said they said it would be 2-3 days work. 
Mr R said that when BG first visited his property at the beginning of December 2020 he 
showed them the CCTV survey pictures that he felt clearly showed the cause of the 
blockage. He said that BG looked at the pictures and said that his bathroom would need to 
be stripped out so that the issue could be rectified.
BG said that they attended Mr Rs property in early December 2020 to try to resolve the 
blockage. They said theyd tried various methods to clear the blockage, but kept hitting a 
solid object. And that theyd used a camera which had identified a solid mass of tissues and 
wipes. But they couldnt clear the mass. So they said they needed to carry out further work 
to investigate the blockage. 
But the work had to be postponed due to lockdown restrictions. When BG returned to Mr Rs 
property in April 2021 they completed their own CCTV survey. And said that the required 
work wasnt covered. 
Mr R said that the two CCTV surveys show the same issue. And therefore, as BG initially 
told him  based on the information from the first CCTV survey  that the work would be 
covered under his policy, he feels they should honour their original acceptance of the 
required work. So he complained to BG.
BG issued their final response to Mr Rs complaint in June 2021. Theyd asked their 
technical team to review the complaint and still didnt think theyd been wrong to decline to 
do the work. They said they hadnt been aware until their visit in April 2021 of the cause of 
the issue. And as this cause meant a policy exclusion was applicable, theyd declined the 
claim. They offered £50 compensation to apologise for the time it had taken them to tell Mr R 
the work wouldnt be covered. 
Unhappy, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. He shared the CCTV survey pictures 
that hed initially shown to BG during their first visit to his property.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She considered whether the 
time and actions taken by BG to reach their decision to decline his claim were fair and 
reasonable. She felt that BG had acted reasonably when theyd carried out their own CCTV 
survey in April 2021. And that it was only after theyd done this that they could reasonably 
have known that the policy exclusion theyd relied on applied. Therefore she felt BG had 
declined the claim fairly. She also felt that the £50 compensation theyd offered for the delay 
was reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He said BG were lying about not knowing about the 
cause of the issue until April 2021. This was because hed given them the CCTV photos in 
December 2020. He also said the person whod initially told him that BG would do the work 
specifically knew about the adjoining pipe being the issue. But that another manager had 
confirmed there was a discrepancy with what hed first been told.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Mr R. But, 
based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that BG have acted fairly and reasonably. Ill explain 
why.
BG said that Mr R had only had his policy with them since September 2020. And so when he 
made his claim they had no history of blockages to refer to. They said that when they visited 
the property for the first time in December 2020, they didnt know the cause of the issues. 
But after theyd been able to clear the blockage, they discovered what was causing the 
problem in April 2021. At this point they declined to cover the work as it wasnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. 
Mr R said that BG knew what was causing the problems all along. As he had shared the 
CCTV survey his home insurance provider had carried out. Therefore he felt that BG should 
honour the commitment to cover the required work he said the first person he spoke to at BG 
made to him.
Ive carefully considered everything both Mr R and BG have said and the information theyve 
provided. This includes job notes and the policy terms and conditions. Ive not been able to 
listen to the calls Mr R had with BG as BG told this service they are only retained for 90 
days.
During the first December 2020 visit, it appears that BG were shown the pictures from Mr Rs 
home insurers CCTV survey. BG then arranged to visit the property again a few days later 
to try to clear the obstruction. But were unsuccessful. After that, they sent a repair crew just 
before Christmas 2020 to scope out the works. They said the repair crew suggested that 
they hired a multi-trader who would remove the bath and toilet so that they could excavate 
under where the bath was and remove the obstruction. This visit was postponed due to 
lockdown restrictions. But was eventually rearranged for 26 April 2021.
The job notes from this visit state:
On our return visit we jetted again but this time we were lucky and managed to get the tissue moved down somewhere. The line was cleared and we could see that the cause was 
that a joining pipe had been inserted too deep into another pipe and this causing an 
obstruction. This has been obscured by the tissue and was the reason we couldnt get past 
with our equipment. This is classified as poor install and is not covered. This was explained 
to Mr R  he has raised this with umpteen people in the call centre since. Each time we 
explain its not covered.  
The policys terms and conditions state, under General exclusions on page 30:
Pre-existing faults 
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
  were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
  existed when you first took out the product; .
So Mr Rs policy doesnt provide cover for any faults or design faults that existed when he 
first took out the policy; or if any installation work hadnt been completed to a satisfactory 
standard.
Therefore Im satisfied that BG acted fairly when they declined the claim under the policys 
terms and conditions. 
Based on what Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
expect BG to have used the pictures Mr Rs home insurer had taken as conclusive evidence 
of the true cause of the blockage. As she said, BG are entitled to make their own 
assessment of the cause of the blockage. So, while I acknowledge that Mr R did share the 
CCTV survey pictures with BG in December 2020, I dont agree that they were obliged to 
use them. 
I acknowledge that BGs position is that they only became aware of the actual cause of the 
blockage  the poorly inserted pipe  after their April 2021 visit. And that Mr Rs position is 
that BG initially told him the work would be covered. As I stated earlier, Ive been unable to 
listen to the calls between Mr R and BG. So I must make my decision based on the evidence 
I do have.
Having considered that evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Im 
not persuaded that BG knew the actual cause of the blockage before April 2021. I say this 
because if they did, they couldve immediately excluded Mr Rs claim on the basis that it 
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. Instead, they made several 
attempts to remove the blockage. Ive seen no evidence that BG lied to Mr R. And I dont 
agree that the pictures he shared with them were clear enough to confirm what the issue 
was. Therefore Im not going to ask them to cover the cost of the repair work.
BG offered to pay Mr R £50 compensation for the delay in resolving his claim. The terms and 
conditions of the policy state, on page 28:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Considering the circumstances at the time of the issues, Im satisfied that a lot of the delay 
was out of BGs control. I do acknowledge that it wouldve been frustrating for Mr R having to 
wait to get his claim resolved. But, under the circumstances, I consider that BG acted fairly and reasonably when they offered £50 compensation. So I dont uphold the complaint and I 
dont require BG to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman