DRN-4187869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE incorrectly identified subsidence as 
the cause of damage to their property and subsequently avoided (cancelled as if it never 
existed) the policy when they tried to renew.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had landlords insurance that was underwritten by Great Lakes for a property 
they own and rent out. In June 2020 they made a claim after noticing cracks in the property. 
Great Lakes appointed a loss adjuster to investigate and concluded that the damage was 
caused by subsidence but that it pre-dated the inception of the policy, so should be dealt 
with by their previous insurer. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this outcome. Mr S explained that he is a chartered 
surveyor and didnt agree with Great Lakes conclusions. He complained but it didnt change 
its position on the claim. 
In January 2021 the policy was due to renew with Great Lakes. However Mr and Mrs S 
decided to cancel it.
In April 2021 Mr S called their broker to arrange to reinstate the policy. However on the call 
he was told it wouldnt be possible due to an open subsidence claim.
In June 2021 he took out a policy through the broker online. However shortly after this Great 
Lakes avoided it. It said Mr S hadnt declared the claim they had made in 2020 when taking 
out the new policy, and if he had it wouldnt have offered cover. 
Mr S made another complaint which wasnt upheld. He asked this service to investigate both 
complaints.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaints be upheld. 
He said he thought Great Lakes had followed a fair process when assessing his claim for 
subsidence. And he thought Mr S ought to have known he should inform the insurer about 
the claim when taking out the new policy, so was satisfied he had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under the Insurance Act 2015 and therefore Great Lakes had fairly 
avoided the policy. 
Great Lakes accepted our investigators outcome, however Mr and Mrs S didnt. In summary 
they said:
The claim wasnt paid out and they eventually withdrew it so they hadnt realised it 
needed to be declared.
Mr S had been suffering from an illness that made it more difficult for him to provide 
information at the time he took out the policy.
While the Insurance Act applies to commercial customers, Mr and Mrs S arent as 
experienced as most that would be classed as this. And reasonably thought a claim 
wouldnt be noted if it was withdrawn or not paid. 
Mr S is a chartered surveyor and disputed the findings of Great Lakes reports 
repeatedly, however our investigator didnt take this into account. 
They have subsequently made a claim with their previous insurer and it looks likely 
that it will conclude that subsidence wasnt the cause of the damage, which proves 
that Great Lakes were wrong in its assessment. 
Mr and Mrs S asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Subsidence claim
It isnt the role of this service to determine what the cause of structural damage to a building 
is. Instead it is for us to decide if the insurer has followed a fair process when reaching its 
conclusions. So here, I wont consider whether subsidence is the cause of damage at Mr 
and Mrs S property. Just whether Great Lakes took fair and reasonable steps when 
assessing their claim. 
When assessing Mr and Mrs S claim Great Lakes appointed a subsidence expert to assess 
the damage, carry out site tests and report on the probable cause. It provided this evidence 
to Great Lakes and it based its conclusions on this report. It concluded that the damage was 
likely to be subsidence but that it was historic so had begun before the policy with Great 
Lakes began. And therefore it should be dealt with by a previous insurer. 
This is the process this service would expect an insurer to follow in the circumstances, so I 
think Great Lakes took reasonable steps to determine the cause and assess the claim.
I note Mr S has disputed the methods used by Great Lakes contractor and disagrees with 
the findings of the report. And that he is a chartered surveyor with lots of experience of 
subsidence issues. However Great Lakes experts carried out the tests and examined the 
property in detail. As well as producing a detailed report. So while I dont doubt Mr S 
expansive expertise, I am more persuaded by the report produced formally by the experts 
who carried out the testing. 
Mr S has also said that his claim with his previous insurer looks likely to find that subsidence 
wasnt the cause of the damage. However even if that is to be the case, it wouldnt change 
my opinion here. What I am assessing is whether Great Lakes handled Mr and Mrs S claim 
fairly and if it carried out a fair process in doing so. And I think it did. Even if the damage 
turns out not to be caused by subsidence, I still think Great Lakes were reasonable to follow 
the findings of its experts at the time. So this wouldnt change my conclusions here. 
 Avoided policy
Great Lakes has said that Mr S misrepresented when taking out the insurance for the 
property online. As he confirmed there had been no claims relating to the property in the five 
years previous, when he was aware of the recent claim for subsidence. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mr S took out the policy he had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the Act says 
a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would 
influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what 
terms.
Mr S made the claim in June 2020. And he took out the policy online a year later. When 
doing so he was asked to confirm the following statement:
"In the last 5 years there haven't been any claims at the property. There also haven't been 
any events at the property that I could have claimed for, but either chose not to, or didn't 
have insurance in place at the time.
Mr S agreed to this statement. However as he made the claim within the last five years, this 
information wasnt correct. So Ive considered whether he ought to have known that he 
should have disclosed the information about the claim.
Mr S has said as the claim wasnt taken forward and had subsequently closed, he didnt 
think it needed to be declared as it didnt count as a claim. However I still think it would have 
been clear that this information might impact the insurers decision about insuring the risk. 
Particularly because the statement above mentions any events that werent claimed for as 
well as those that were. 
But also, throughout his correspondence with Great Lakes, he has referred to the matter as 
a claim. So I think its clear he understood that he had registered a claim on his policy.
Further, he called Great Lakes in April 2021 to see if he could renew the policy that had 
lapsed. Ive listened to this call and in it the handler explained that there was an open claim 
on his policy and that due to this they wouldnt be able to offer a new policy. From this, I 
think it would have been clear that a claim was registered on the policy. But also, that it was 
of importance to an insurer to know about claims as this impacts their decision as to whether 
they take on the risk. Therefore I think Mr S reasonably knew that there had been a claim 
and that he should declare it to a new insurer. For this reason I agree Mr S made a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy.
I note Mr S comments about his health at the time he took the policy out, and I sympathise 
with his position. However when I consider all the evidence, I still think he ought to have 
known he should have disclosed all information about the previous claim. And in the 
circumstances, if he was in any doubt or concerned about any potential impairment it would 
be his responsibility to ensure he did appropriate checks to ensure the information he 
provided was correct. 
Under the Insurance Act in order for Great Lakes to take any action, it has to show that there 
has been a qualifying misrepresentation. This means that it needs to show that if it had 
been given the correct information it would either have not offered the insurance policy at all 
or would have offered it on different terms.
Great Lakes has confirmed it wouldnt have offered the policy cover if the correct information 
about the claim had been provided when it was applied for. Im therefore satisfied there has 
been a qualifying misrepresentation as laid out in the Insurance Act and has acted fairly by 
avoiding the policy.
Under the Act, the remedy available also depends on whether the misrepresentation was 
reckless or deliberate or just careless. If it is considered careless then the insurer should 
refund the policy premiums paid. Whereas if its considered deliberate or reckless then the 
policy premiums can be retained by the insurer.Here, I think Mr S mistake was more than careless. He had only very recently discussed the 
claim with Great Lakes and the discussion had involved talking about the impact claims have 
on insurers offering policy cover going forward. 
For these reasons, I think Great Lakes has acted fairly by avoiding Mr and Mrs S policy and 
retaining any premiums paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman