DRN-3316296
The complaint
Mr G had complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) avoided his home contents 
policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr G took out a home contents policy with Ageas via a brokers website. Mr G made a claim 
under the policy for accidental damage to a TV. While Ageas was assessing the claim, Mr G 
told it he had made a previous claim on another policy. As a result, Ageas said Mr G had 
answered the question it asked about previous claims incorrectly. And Ageas considered this 
to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid Mr Gs 
policy, decline his claim because of this and keep the premium hed already paid.
When Mr G complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
Mr G had made a careless, rather than deliberate or reckless, qualifying misrepresentation. 
So, although it was reasonable for Ageas to avoid the policy and refuse to pay the claim, he 
said it should have refunded the premium to Mr G. 
As Mr G didnt agree he had made a misrepresentation, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ageas thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
first took out the policy because he didnt declare a previous insurance claim. Ive looked at 
what Mr G was asked when he first took out the policy. As part of the purchase process, Mr 
G was asked to read a statement that said:
Nobody that will be insured on the policy has made any insurance claims of the type that 
may be covered under this policy in the last 5 years; and there have been no settled claims 
on this policy since inception.
Mr G had to say whether this statement was true or false. He said that it was true. However, 
a few months before he took out this policy, Mr G had made a claim under a bike policy for a 
bike that was stolen from outside a station. So, Ive looked at whether this would have been 
covered by the Ageas policy if it had been in place at the time. 
The Ageas policy allowed a policyholder to take out optional Out of Home cover. Ive read 
the policy schedule and Mr G took out this cover. Ive looked at whether this included cover 
for bikes stolen while left in the open, which it did. So, Im satisfied that if the Ageas policy 
had been in place, Mr G could have made a claim under this policy. This means Mr G should 
have declared the claim for the bike when he was applying for the Ageas policy.
Im aware Mr G initially made two quote applications, both of which were declined because 
he declared a previous claim. Mr G then phoned the broker to ask for more details about 
how to answer the question about previous claims. I note that Mr G didnt raise the previous 
claim for the bike, but did discuss another claim. The broker said it couldnt tell Mr G how to 
answer the question. But it gave Mr G two examples, one related to a missed flight on a 
travel policy, which it said Mr G wouldnt have to declare, and the other about a damaged 
mobile phone under a gadget policy, which it said he would need to declare. However, it said 
Mr G should read the example policy documents to check whether a previous claim would 
have been covered by the policy. Mr G then applied for the Ageas policy again and didnt 
declare any previous claims. This time Mr G was accepted for the policy.
So, Ive thought about this carefully. The question asked if Mr G had made a claim in the 
past five years that might have been covered by the policy. Mr G spoke to the broker to 
discuss how to answer the question about previous claims. During that discussion, he was 
advised to read the policy booklet to see if any previous claims would have been covered. 
The policy documents explained that it included cover for bikes while away from the home. A 
few months before taking out the policy, Mr G had a bike stolen when it was left outside a 
station. So, I dont think Mr G took reasonable care when he applied for the policy to ensure 
that he provided correct information.
Ive looked at Ageas underwriting criteria. As this is commercially sensitive information, Im 
unable to provide details of what this said. However, Im satisfied that Ageas wouldnt have 
provided cover at all if it had known about the previous claim for the bike. This means Im 
satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
So, Ive also thought about whether the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. Ageas said it was deliberate or reckless. However, since our investigator issued 
his findings, Ageas has refunded the premium paid, which I take to mean it now accepts that 
Mr Gs misrepresentation was careless, since that is what the law requires.
When Mr G was applying for the policy, he did seek further information on how to answer the 
question about previous claims, which I think suggested he wanted to answer the question 
accurately. Im also not persuaded that Mr G changing his answer about previous claims for 
the third quote showed that he was deliberate or reckless in how he answered the question. 
When Mr G made the claim for the TV, he also seemed to offer information about the claim 
for the bike. Thinking about this, Im satisfied that Mr Gs misrepresentation should be 
treated as careless.
So, although I think it was reasonable for Ageas to avoid the policy from the start and to 
decline the claim, I think it should have refunded the premiums because that is what an 
insurer should do under CIDRA when a misrepresentation is careless. As a result, I uphold 
this complaint in part and require Ageas to ensure that it has refunded the premiums paid 
from the start of this policy, which I understand it might already have done.Putting things right
Ageas should ensure it has refunded to Mr G the premiums paid from the start of the policy
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to ensure it has refunded to Mr G the premiums paid from 
the start of this policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman