DRN-2785272
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zenith Insurance plc treated him unfairly in their handling of his motor 
insurance claim.
Some contact on this matter has been on Mr Ms behalf, with his father, but for ease of 
reading Ive referred to Mr M throughout. 
What happened
Mr M reported a motor insurance claim to Zenith on 31 January 2019, advising that his car 
had been stolen on the 14th of that month. Mr M said hed initially given an acquaintance 
permission to drive his car, but had later revoked that permission.
Mr M said that despite this revocation, the acquaintance took his keys, drove his car and 
eventually crashed it.
Zenith wasnt entirely satisfied with Mr Ms description of events leading up to the crash. 
Because of this they asked him, on several occasions, to provide clarity on what it was that 
had happened exactly. Part of Zeniths concern was also that Mr M had given permission to 
someone who was uninsured and without a driving license.
Mr M tried to provide clarity to Zenith, but in doing so they felt he was altering his description 
of events further. Zenith eventually rejected Mr Ms claim and told him that hed be registered 
on a database as having committed fraud.
Unhappy with that, Mr M brought the matter to our service.
An investigator here reviewed the case. They felt Zenith had been reasonable, reaching an 
agreement Mr M had been inconsistent in what hed said throughout. 
Mr M didnt entirely agree with the investigator. He agreed that while he may have 
contravened conditions of the policy, he hadnt committed fraud. He said there was no 
intention on his part to obtain financial reward that he was not entitled to.
Mr M reiterated that his car, and keys, had been taken without his consent, and had been 
damaged. He said the cost of repair wouldve been little more than the excess. Adding that 
Zenith had, without his permission, made the decision to scrap his car  which he could have 
had repaired himself.
While Mr M accepted that Zenith had the right to reject the claim, he remained aggrieved 
with their decision to place a fraud marker against him.
As this matter couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim took quite some time to progress, but the time taken ended up being the subject of 
a separate complaint, for which Mr M was paid compensation. I dont intend to cover those 
issues in this case.
Rather, my focus is on whether Zenith treated Mr M fairly in declining his claim and recording 
him as having committed fraud.
The reason Zenith felt Mr M had committed fraud was because he had given what they felt 
to be contrasting statements about what had happened. I believe Mr M accepts that to be 
the case, although he has given some significant personal reasons which could have 
contributed to him being inconsistent. Theyre not instrumental to the outcome of this case, 
so I wont elaborate on those here due to their personal nature. But they have been taken 
into account and both sides are aware of them. I think its important to touch on them as they 
add some context to why Mr M wasnt consistent.
Zeniths records show Mr M reported the theft to them on 31 January 2019, saying it had 
happened on the 14th of that month. But, other records show Mr M reported it to the police 
on the 12th, saying it had happened the day before. I appreciate dates can be mixed up by 
mistake, but it wasnt a good start to the claim, and I can understand why it raised concerns 
at Zenith.
The police records also say Mr M told them he had given his acquaintance the keys 
voluntarily so he could go to the shop (presumably on foot, with the keys being given to let 
himself back into the property theyd been in), but not permission to drive. But Mr M has 
subsequently said that his acquaintance took the keys without permission.
I dont think theres a need for me to scrutinise Mr Ms different statements further. Hes 
accepted that he hasnt been consistent, and I can understand to a certain extent why. But at 
various stages, Mr M has given an uninsured and unlicensed individual, his keys and 
permission to drive his car. Its possible that permission was revoked in full before the crash, 
but given the discrepancies Im not sure I can say its probable. So, I think it was reasonable 
for Zenith to reject the claim.
Turing to Zenith putting a fraud marker against Mr M. I dont agree that was fair. I think for 
that to be the case there ought to be clear evidence to show that Mr M was trying to make a 
dishonest claim. I dont think theres enough to reach a conclusion as strong as that. And 
having spoken to Zenith about this, they have agreed to downgrade the marker against Mr M 
to reflect that rather than being fraudulent, he was being inconsistent.
This will still no doubt have ramifications for Mr M when trying to obtain insurance, but it may 
be that he doesnt find it quite so difficult in the future. Ultimately though, its for prospective 
insurers to decide if they want to take him on as a customer, and if so for them to determine 
the price. I appreciate Mr M has spent quite some time with the fraudulent marker against 
him. I thought about whether it might be fair to award compensation for that.
But I dont think it wouldve been the only reason Mr M was having difficulty in obtaining 
insurance at the time. The claim wasnt finalised until towards the end of 2019, so I dont 
think the marker was present throughout  Zenith had given Mr M several opportunities to 
clear his name up until that point.
And prior to that, Mr M also had points for a motoring offence and a separate ban from 
driving received two months after the incident he claimed for. So, Ive not seen anything to make me think the fraud marker had any immediate or negative effect on Mr M.
Ive also thought about Zeniths disposal of Mr Ms car, but theyve provided evidence 
showing he agreed to that, to avoid storage costs mounting, so Im satisfied that was 
reasonable.
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, I require Zenith Insurance plc to put things right by 
downgrading the marker against Mr M to reflect that he was being inconsistent, rather than 
fraudulent.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance plc to do what 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman