DRN-3201933
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Limited (GPS) to 
transfer the benefits he held in a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. Mr H believes the advice was unsuitable for him.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) - the 
employers DB scheme - from the company. The consultation with members referred to 
possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the 
scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). 
Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement. The BSPS closed to further contributions in March 2017. 
I understand that Mr H elected to transfer his benefits to the BSPS2, when he was required 
to make a choice about this in late 2017.
Mr H obtained a transfer value quotation (TVQ) in respect of his BSPS2 benefits on 3 July 
2019. This summarised the benefits Mr H was entitled to under the scheme at that point. It 
also gave the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Hs pension benefits, which was 
£128,791.28.
Mr H completed an enquiry form on 15 July 2019, asking GPS for advice about his pension. 
The form also provided GPS authority to gather information about his pensions. I understand 
though that Mr Hs investment adviser, which Ill refer to as Firm J, recommended that he 
speak to GPS and introduced him.
GPS completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. 
It noted that he was 32, in good health and employed full time. Mr H was married but 
separated from his partner and he had four dependent children. 
In addition to the benefits Mr H held in the BSPS2, he was also a member of his employers 
defined contribution pension scheme  set up when the restructuring consultation began. He 
and his employer were making combined contributions to this pension equivalent to 16% of 
his salary. And at the time of speaking to GPS, the value of this fund was estimated to be 
around £15,000.
It was recorded that Mr H hoped to fully retire by age 60 but may want to take pension 
benefits earlier - from age 55 or 57. It was also noted that he expected to need an income of 
£15,000 per year in retirement and didnt have a need for a lump sum before retirement. 
GPS noted that Mr H wanted the flexibility to invest his funds how he chose and to take the 
benefits under his control. It said that although the BSPS2 had only recently been 
established, Mr H was concerned by rumours about its status and the BSPS2 potentially 
being sold to a life company. 
GPS also asked Mr H to answer questions about his attitude to risk. In the hand-written 
version of this questionnaire, it was recorded that he had very little investment experience or 
knowledge. In relation to general risk, Mr H was recorded as being intermediate  
sometimes erring on the side of caution but sometimes being willing to take risks. In respect 
of investment risk the option ticked for Mr H was cautious but willing to invest in the stock 
market. In the typed version GPS has provided however, the answer in relation to 
investment risk was amended to medium. GPS appears to have based its advice on Mr Hs 
attitude to investment risk being medium, given this is what the suitability report referenced.
GPS completed a pension transfer analysis report on 22 August 2019. This included the 
calculation of a transfer value comparator (TVC) - a measure of what sum of money Mr H 
would need at the point of the advice, to invest at a risk-free return, to provide equivalent 
benefits to the DB scheme at retirement. The report said Mr H would need £321,000. The 
report also said GPS had calculated the critical yield - the annual rate of return required of a 
new pension to allow Mr H to purchase equivalent benefits to those he was guaranteed 
under the BSPS2 at retirement. The critical yield calculated was based on Mr H retiring at 
age 65 and taking the maximum possible tax-free cash on retirement and was 4.5%.
GPS says it had a conversation with Mr H on 16 September 2019 in which it recommended 
that he proceed with a transfer of his pension benefits. A written summary of this advice was 
provided on 19 September 2019. 
The recommendation letter summarised that GPS advised Mr H to transfer his pension 
benefits into a personal pension and invest in a specific portfolio with the recommended 
provider. It said that Mr H wanted to transfer his pension and rely on investment returns to 
provide his retirement provisions rather than the guarantees given by the existing scheme 
because he felt he could maximise his returns this way. It also said he had concerns about 
the scheme due to the past issues with the BSPS and he didnt feel hed in fact have much 
reliance on the BSPS2 benefits, given he was a member of a new DC scheme and intended 
to contribute to this until retirement. It also noted he was keen for flexibility  to control his 
income in retirement and retire early  to maximise tax free cash and to improve the death 
benefits available before retirement. Based on this, Mr Hs medium attitude to risk and GPS 
analysis, which it felt supported that Mr H could be better off as a result of transferring, it said 
it believed a transfer was suitable. The report noted that GPS and Firm J would be paid a fee 
for the transfer advice and that Firm J would provide ongoing servicing of the pension.
Mr H complained about the suitability of the transfer advice in 2021 as he was concerned it 
mayve been unsuitable. 
GPS didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it felt the advice it had provided satisfied the 
requirements of what the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), indicated 
customers should expect. It said that Mr H had wanted to transfer so that he had the 
flexibility to access his pension before the normal scheme retirement age of 65, to have 
control over his investment, to improve and maximise his retirement benefits and to provide 
his family greater protection in the event of his death through access to a lump sum. GPS 
said its calculations suggested Mr H had the potential to be better off by transferring. And a 
personal pension met his other aims. So, if still felt the recommendation was suitable. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and said 
GPS should compensate Mr H for any loss the DB transfer had led to. He didnt think Mr H 
was likely to be better off as a result of transferring, certainly not without taking more risk 
than he wouldve been comfortable with. And the Investigator didnt think Mr H had any other 
genuine need which meant that the transfer was in his best interests. Based on this the 
Investigator said, if Mr H hadnt been given unsuitable advice, he thought he wouldve kept 
his benefits where they were  and said he thought hed have remained in the BSPS and 
moved with it to the PPF.GPS disagreed. It said the Investigator was mistaken about the options available to Mr H  
noting he had already moved to the BSPS2 as part of the time to choose exercise. So, 
remaining in the BSPS and moving to the PPF wasnt an option and he had only been able 
to choose between remaining in the BSPS2 or transferring. GPS said it believed a 
comparison of the critical yield and discount rate, when looking at whether the transfer was 
financially viable was inappropriate and flawed. But regardless of this, it believed the rates 
referenced in the Investigators analysis indicated Mr H could in fact expect to outperform the 
critical yield. It also said there was no requirement for it to calculate what the critical yield 
would be if Mr H did not take tax-free cash or if he retired early. And GPS said it still believed 
the advice was appropriate based on Mr Hs circumstances and needs as well as the 
requirements of the regulator. 
GPS also provided analysis by an external consultancy firm. It gave its opinion on the merits 
of GPS advice as well as providing various projections and models, carried out in 2022 
when it was instructed, to support its conclusions. In short, the consultancy firm thought the 
transfer allowed Mr H to meet his objectives, such as retiring early, and was viable because 
the CETV was considered generous. It also said had Mr H not transferred hed have needed 
to make substantial additional contributions to his other pension arrangements to meet his 
retirement objectives, which it said was the cost to Mr H of retaining his defined benefits.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. They have though acknowledged that GPS was correct that 
remaining in the BSPS and transferring with it to the PPF at the time of the advice was 
provided was not an option for Mr H. And have clarified that they think, if suitable advice had 
been given, Mr H wouldve remained in the BSPS2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided detailed arguments and a significant amount of documentation to 
consider by Mr H and GPS. And Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully 
considered all the evidence provided. If I dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been 
sent or that either party have said this isnt meant as a discourtesy or because I havent 
thought about it. Rather, it is because my decision will address what I consider to be the key 
issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of GPS' actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, GPS should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
The primary purpose of a pension is to provide for the pension holders retirement  by way 
of an income. How the income that the pension holder could expect to receive after 
transferring compared to the guaranteed benefits they were due under their existing 
arrangements is, in my view, an important consideration as to whether they would be better 
off by transferring. Which in turn is important when determining if a transfer was in the 
pension holders best interests. And indeed, the FCA required such a comparison and 
analysis to be undertaken.
GPS has said that the critical yield was not of much relevance at the time it gave advice  
although it did still consider it  and that any analysis of this now is of limited relevance. But 
while I acknowledge that the TVC gave an alternative measure of the value of the benefits 
being given up, I still think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here. 
GPS has also questioned the Investigators use of discount rates as a comparison to the 
critical yield  arguing it and the critical yield are for different purposes and any comparison 
is not appropriate as we arent using the rates in the manner they were intended. It has also 
said it was under no obligation to consider the discount rate.
Discount rates were first used during the pension review in loss assessment calculations - to 
discount the cost of replacing the DB pension at retirement back to the date of a review 
taking place and redress being paid. Our service continued to publish discount rates until 
September 2017. After this the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. I acknowledge that GPS was not 
required to refer to the discount rate when giving advice. But it was free to do so. And 
although GPS does not agree, I think the discount rate is a reasonable additional 
consideration here. It provides a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so would, in my view, be a 
reasonable assumption by which to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a personal 
pension with those payable under a DB scheme.
As the Investigator noted, GPS only calculated the critical yield (which it said was 4.5%) and 
TVC based on Mr H retiring at age 65 and taking the maximum possible TFC at retirement. 
GPS has said that maximising TFC was one of Mr Hs objectives and that virtually every 
person who takes scheme benefits will take the TFC. But the fact-find recorded that Mr H 
didnt have a specific need for a lump sum in retirement. And I havent seen anything else to 
support that maximising TFC was an objective Mr H identified. So, in the circumstances, I 
think itd have been appropriate for GPS to provide Mr H the TVC and critical yield to 
purchase equivalent benefits to what hed have been due if he took a full pension at age 65. GPS also said that Mr H wanted to retire early. It says he wanted to do so fully at age 60 but 
mightve done so even sooner  potentially from age 57. But there was also no TVC or 
critical yield calculated in respect of Mr H taking benefits early. 
GPS says the TVC is to provide information about the performance required to match 
benefits at scheme retirement age. And that calculating it or the critical yield for early 
retirement is impractical. But GPS advice was based on transferring being suitable for Mr H 
as it allowed him to meet his objectives  with early retirement being one of these. In order 
for him to make an informed decision, Id argue a comparison to the benefits the BSPS2 
wouldve provided through early retirement was entirely appropriate and ought to have been 
included. And that calculating the critical yield and TVC for this would be the most 
appropriate way to provide a like for like comparison. And contrary to what GPS has said, I 
dont think this was impractical. Indeed, in my experience, calculating equivalent critical 
yields and TVCs for early retirement seems to have been common industry practice when 
giving advice on pension transfers where early retirement was an objective.
Although GPS didnt calculate these alternative critical yields, the consultancy that it asked 
to review the sale did (although referring to them by a different name). It estimated that the 
critical yield required for Mr H to purchase equivalent benefits to those hed have been due 
at age 65 under the DB scheme, if he took a full annual pension, was 5.11%. It also said the 
critical yield, if Mr H retired at age 57 and took a full pension was 5.81%. And if he retired at 
age 57 but took the maximum TFC available and a reduced pension, was 5.19%. 
Interestingly it also estimated the critical yield for the same scenario that GPS calculated at 
the time of the advice to be slightly different, 4.65% as opposed to the 4.5% GPS said. And 
while I acknowledge this information was not provided to Mr H at the time of the advice, as 
Ive explained I think it wouldve been appropriate for it to have been calculated and shared. 
So, Ive considered it here.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. This 
was 4.7% for 32 years to retirement  which would be the case if Mr H retired at age 65. And 
was 4.6% for 24 years to retirement  the case if he were to retire at 57. I acknowledge that 
these discount rates are from almost two years prior to the advice having been given. But 
the share returns that were used to compile this discount rate wouldnt have likely been 
significantly different by the time of transfer and, if anything, the bond returns would have 
gotten lower. So, I think it still gives an approximate guide to the upper end of potential future 
returns. And Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.  
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
term to retirement and Mr Hs attitude to risk.
Our Investigator said he thought Mr Hs attitude to risk may have been more cautious than 
GPS suggested. But GPS didnt accept this. As Ive mentioned I was provided with two 
copies of the Personal and Financial Details document (the fact-find) completed during the 
advice process. One was hand-written and one computer generated. In the hand-written 
version, signed by Mr H in July 2019, his attitude to investment risk was recorded as 
cautious. In the computer-generated version, which is unsigned, this was amended to 
medium. And the advice was based on Mr H having selected a medium attitude to risk.
It isnt clear why that amendment to attitude to risk was made. And Ive not been provided 
with any meeting notes, transcripts or other evidence that indicates Mr H agreed to this. So, I 
can see why the Investigator concluded that Mr H mayve been less willing to take risk than 
GPS suggested. But ultimately, I dont think it makes a difference here.There would be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And this 
appears to be the most likely scenario here  that at best, in one retirement scenario, he was 
likely to achieve largely the same benefits. It appears that Mr H was always likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at age 57 as a result of transferring  
whether taking TFC or not. And likewise, he seems likely to have been unable to match the 
benefits offered by the DB scheme at age 65, if taking a full pension.
For taking TFC at age 65, it does seem more likely that the critical yield couldve been 
achieved. So, the personal pension may have been able to match the benefits offered by DB 
scheme in that scenario. But this wasnt guaranteed and again there would be little point in 
introducing significant additional risk to achieve broadly the same benefits  which seems 
more likely than Mr H significantly exceeding the benefits hed have been guaranteed under 
the DB scheme.
And the analysis of the transfer, carried out by GPS, includes an annual income comparison 
of what level of guaranteed income Mr H was likely to be able to purchase at maturity as a 
result of transferring, after charges and fees were accounted for and assuming a return of 
5% was achieved and inflation of 2% accounted for. And this said Mr Hs income was likely 
to be 7.4% lower annually.
The one TVC that was calculated also illustrates that it was likely to have been difficult to 
exceed the benefits available through the DB scheme  given it was calculated that a fund of 
£321,000 would need to be invested at a risk-free rate of return to purchase the same 
benefits. But the CETV available to Mr H was only £128,791.28. So, it would need to grow 
significantly, which would require exposing the fund to risk.
GPS says its analysis showed that if the regulators mid growth rate of 5% had been 
achieved, Mr H wouldve been able to draw an income equivalent to that the DB scheme 
wouldve provided on a flexible basis  leaving the remainder of the fund invested to 
continue to grow. And that if he did so his fund wouldve lasted until after his average life 
expectancy. And the consultancy firm it instructed provided calculations and models which it 
says supports this. But this was again based on simply matching what Mr H was already 
guaranteed under the DB scheme. And doing so was dependent on him taking investment 
risk he wasnt otherwise exposed to. It also required growth at the regulators middle 
projection rate to be consistently achieved. And if the investment performed at the lower 
level then Mr H would be worse off. If Mr Hs investments suffered significant losses or a 
period of sustained poor performance, there was also the possibility that he would deplete 
his funds earlier than anticipated. Whereas the DB scheme benefit would last him for the rest 
of his life.
Taking everything into account, I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that I can reasonably 
say Mr H was more likely than not to receive benefits of a greater value as a result of 
transferring. And so, from a financial viability point of view, I dont think a transfer was in his 
best interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits And GPS has suggested that the transfer achieved other objectives for Mr H, 
so was suitable. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility 
GPS says Mr H wanted flexibility to try to achieve his retirement objectives through growth. It 
also said he was intending to retire early, potentially at age 57 or earlier if possible, and wanted an income of £15,000 per year in retirement so needed flexibility to achieve this. And 
GPS said Mr H he wanted to maximise the amount of TFC he could take on retirement.
On wanting flexibility to try to achieve his retirement objectives through growth rather than 
his DB scheme benefits, I dont think this is something that would mean a transfer was in 
Mr Hs interests. A pension is there to provide an income in retirement. And a guaranteed 
income is a valuable commodity. Transferring to achieve flexibility to invest would only make 
sense if there was a prospect of significantly improving the available benefits. And as Ive 
already explained, Im satisfied there wasnt here. So, even if this was something Mr H 
expressed an interest in, I think GPS shouldve advised him that transferring for this reason 
wasnt suitable. 
In respect of early retirement, Mr H was 32 at the time of the advice. It was over 20 years 
until he could think about accessing his pension benefits at all and over 24 years until GPS 
says he intended to do so. I dont doubt he was interested in retiring early if possible  I think 
most consumers would be when asked. And he may even have tentatively planned to do so. 
But I dont think those plans were finalised and couldve been subject to change, just as his 
circumstances and needs may have altered. 
Mr H also had the option of taking his pension benefits early under his DB scheme. So, he 
didnt need to transfer in order to access his benefits from that age.
I also dont think Mr H needed to transfer in order to achieve his stated income goal. The 
suitability report had no meaningful explanation or comparison of the benefits available to 
Mr H under the DB scheme, either at age 65 or if he retired early. Given GPS says early 
retirement was a genuine objective, I think it shouldve done. The consultancy firm though 
did calculate the benefits the DB scheme would provide. 
For retirement at age 65 it estimated the DB scheme wouldve provided an annual pension 
of £12,039 or TFC of £56,760 and a reduced annual pension of £8,514. The annual 
pensions would both continue to escalate while in payment. Both of these annual pensions 
would fall short of the target income of £15,000 per year until Mr H began receiving his state 
pension  although the TFC would be enough to supplement the annual pension and meet 
the stated need. But the DB scheme wasnt the only pension provision Mr H was likely to 
have by age 65. He was a member of his employers defined contribution pension scheme. 
And he and his employer were making combined contributions equivalent to 16% of his 
salary.  This fund was already apparently worth £15,000 at the time of the advice. And Im 
satisfied that, by age 65, this wouldve been enough to supplement the DB scheme and 
allow Mr H to meet his income goals until he began receiving his state pension.
Again, GPS says Mr H wanted to retire early. As Ive said I dont think any definitive decision 
had been taken about this. But regardless of this, I still dont think he needed to transfer to 
meet his stated income goal.  The consultancy firm estimated that at age 57 Mr H wouldve 
been entitled to a full annual pension of £8,198 per year or TFC of £40,011 and a reduced 
annual pension of £6,002 under his DB scheme. The annual pensions would again have 
continued to escalate in payment.
These annual amounts are a lot farther from the stated income goal of £15,000 per year. But 
as Ive mentioned, Mr H was contributing to another pension. And based on the information 
recorded in the fact-find, before even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth 
or Mr H increasing his contributions, by age 57 this fund was likely to be worth in excess of 
£135,000. This fund couldve also potentially been used flexibly from age 57, to supplement 
the income from the DB scheme. And I think this wouldve allowed him to meet his income 
objectives if he did retire at age 57 until his state pension became payable. At which point 
the state pension and the DB scheme pension, which wouldve escalated in the intervening period, wouldve met his income needs.
And the DB scheme benefits, regardless of which point they started, were guaranteed for 
life. Whereas the amount he could take under a flexible personal pension was entirely 
dependent on the sum remaining in the plan.
GPS has said that it was not certain that Mr H would continue to make contributions to his 
new pension arrangement or that hed remain with the same employer. But I think it is 
reasonable to assume that Mr H would continue to contribute towards his pension provisions 
until retirement  either with his current employer or with a new employer. The consultancy 
has also referred to the contributions to the defined contribution pension scheme 
representing the cost to Mr H of keeping his DB scheme. But I dont agree with this. 
Continuing contributions were to an entirely separate pension and were to provide further 
retirement provisions.
Lastly, in terms of maximising TFC, as Ive already said I dont think, based on the 
information that Ive seen, this was a genuine objective for Mr H. The fact find said that Mr H 
did not have or anticipate a specific need for a lump sum at retirement. And there was 
nothing in the information about his finances that to me suggests otherwise.
Taking all of this into account, given the time until he was intending to retire, I dont think 
Mr Hs plans or needs were known and certainly were not finalised. So, I dont think he had a 
need for flexibility at the time of the advice. Nor do I think this was the only option for 
meeting the objectives he mayve been considering at the time.  So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr H to give up his guaranteed benefits, which was an 
irreversible decision, when he did.
Death benefits
GPS says Mr H was interested in the alternative death benefits provided by a personal 
pension. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think GPS sufficiently 
explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
was married with children. I understand he was separated from his partner at the time. But I 
also note the fact find suggested he still wanted his wife to benefit from any death benefits. 
So, the spouses and dependents pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse and dependents if Mr H predeceased them. These were guaranteed and they 
escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, or how much of the 
pension sum remained after accounting for income taken by Mr H. Whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was dependent on these things. And based on 
Mr H being recorded as being in good health, the income he drew couldve resulted in the 
fund being significantly depleted, particularly if he lived a long life. In any event, GPS should 
not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I understand Mr H also had death in service benefits from his employer, which I think appear 
to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a legacy. The new defined contribution pension he was contributing to also provided alternative forms of death benefit 
to his DB scheme. And, if Mr H didnt think these were enough and genuinely wanted to 
leave a further legacy, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think GPS shouldve instead explored life insurance  
which given his age and apparent good health appear likely to have been obtainable at a 
reasonable price. But I cant see that GPS did so.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
GPS says Mr H wanted control of his pension and was concerned about the status of the 
BSPS2  saying there had been further rumours about this.
But Mr H hadnt transferred his benefits away during the time to choose exercise, when 
concerns about his pension and his employers handling of this were at their peak. He has 
said that he did look into transferring in 2017. But ultimately this didnt go ahead. I think it is 
unlikely that Mr Hs concerns about the stability of the BSPS2 were greater than during the 
consultation, when he hadnt transferred his benefits. And even if he had been concerned 
about the BSPS2s ongoing stability, Id have expected GPS to have taken steps to 
understand these concerns further and address them. But I cant see that it took any steps to 
do so.
I also think Mr Hs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr H was not 
an experienced investor. While he is recorded as having told GPS he had gotten used to 
reviewing his defined contribution scheme since it was implemented, I cannot see that he 
had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I 
dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr H  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But GPS 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, for the reasons Ive explained, there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think GPS shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme (the BSPS2).
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against GPS' 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, if GPS had advised him not to. Mr H has said he relied on 
the advice given and wouldve been led by it. And Im inclined to agree. I say this because 
Mr H was an inexperienced investor. At best he had a medium attitude to risk  although 
the information suggests he mayve in fact considered himself more cautious. And although 
he was contributing to a new pension arrangement, this pension accounted for the majority 
of Mr Hs retirement provisions at the time of the advice. So, if GPS, a professional adviser 
who hed been referred to for advice, had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think that wouldve carried significant weight and that he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think GPS should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for GPS unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme (the BSPS2) if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
GPS should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
GPS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date GPS receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes GPS to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect GPS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Grove 
Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman