DRN-4115176
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society will not refund the money he lost as the 
result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr A has brought his complaint through a representative, for ease of reading I will refer
solely to Mr A in this decision.
What happened
Mr A says in June 2017 he was contacted by a broker and on their advice decided to invest 
£12,000 in a bond offered by a property company, company W. He sent two faster payments 
on 19 July 2017, the first for £10,000 and then £2,000. Mr A says he later discovered the 
funds were not used for the intended purpose and the director of company W had defrauded 
many people. He contacted Nationwide initially in August 2022, and his representative raised 
a formal fraud claim in October 2022. Nationwide rejected this claim saying it had made no 
error, rather Mr A had invested in an unregulated company that has since gone into 
liquidation.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service saying Nationwide has to refund victims of APP 
fraud under the Contingent Reimbursement Model. It has failed Mr A as it did not detect the 
transactions as unusual and it has refused to investigate them further.  He provided 
information that he said conclusively showed company Ws property bond was a scam.    
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. She said Nationwide ought to have 
detected the first payment as unusual but she did not think had it done so its questions 
would have led Mr A to make a different decision. He understood he was investing in what 
was a private legitimate company and there was no publicly available information at the time 
to suggest the investment was a scam. Mr A was acting on advice from a broker. Given the 
elapsed time between the payments and the fraud claim she did not think Nationwide ought 
to have done more to try to recover the money. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr A asked for an ombudsmans review. He outlined in detail 
why this investment was a scam. He then said the transactions were out of character and 
the bank should have intervened. And he argued that had it done so effectively it would have 
prevented the scam as it would have realised there were several attributes of this investment 
that meant Mr A was at risk of financial harm. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first question we typically look to resolve in cases such as these is whether the company 
involved, so here company W, was actually operating a scam.
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is in fact a scam. Some cases 
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some investment companies may have promoted products, like the mini-bond that is the 
subject of this dispute, which were not regulated by the FCAusing sales methods that 
were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers have duties to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised payments, they do 
not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice  
and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised 
investment advice. 
Company W was a legitimate private limited company, incorporated in September 2015. It 
traded for five years until it went into administration in May 2020. Mr A has provided detailed 
information that he says evidences the bond he purchased was part of a scam. I am aware 
the police are currently looking into allegations of investment fraud against company W. As 
this an ongoing investigation it is not my role to make a conclusive finding as to whether or 
not Mr As bond purchase was part of a scam. 
However, this does not mean I cant consider whether Nationwide ought to have identified 
Mr As payments as out of character, and therefore intervened before processing them. And 
if so, I then need to decide had it done so what would the most likely outcome have been. 
This must be based on what was known publicly and by Mr A about the investment 
opportunity at the time.
Theres no dispute that Mr A made and authorised the payments. Mr A knew why he was
making the payments. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed
he was investing in a property bond. I dont dispute Mr A didnt receive what he
thought he would, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment
Services Regulations 2009.
Its also accepted that Nationwide has an obligation to follow Mr As instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr A is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be 
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance,
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time. To note, as the payments pre-date the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code
its principles do not apply in this case. This means I think that Nationwide should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.In this case I think Mr As first payment for £10,000 ought to have triggered further checks by 
Nationwide. The high value was out of character for the account. And so Nationwide should 
have contacted Mr A to ask for some detail about the payment before processing it.
This means I need to decide if Nationwides intervention would have made a difference to  
Mr As decision to send the payment(s). On balance I dont think it would. I say this based on 
the questions Nationwide should have asked given the features of investment scams at the 
time  but taking into account that it had no duty to give investment advice.
At this time investment scams were often characterised by rates of return that were too good 
to be true and by receiving the opportunity to invest via a cold call or an unsolicited offer, 
with significant pressure applied to act now.
Mr As testimony about the sale of the bond is not particularly detailed. Unfortunately he no 
longer has any of his email correspondence with the broker from the month after he received 
the initial call and before he made his investment. But based on the available evidence I 
dont think a proportionate level of questioning from Nationwide would have led it, or Mr A, to 
believe there was a risk of financial harm. 
The bond purchase was initiated from a cold call, but this had none of the characteristics 
associated with an investment scam. There was no urgency placed on Mr A to invest quickly 
- he took a month to act on the advice he was given. In that time Mr A recalls the broker 
asked for proof of identification and residence.  I cannot know what else was discussed as 
the emails are unfortunately no longer available. 
Mr A recalls he was told the rate of return was 18% per annum, but the Investor Manifesto 
(IM) he received shows it was promoted at up to 10% annual return. I dont think a 10% rate 
of return would have caused concern. Mr A had decided to invest in a property bond via the 
broker to counter the low high-street bank interest rates, and would, I believe, have 
explained this to Nationwide.
I note Mr A recalls only receiving the IM after he had invested, but nevertheless I find it is 
important contemporaneous evidence. I say this as I think that Nationwide may have been 
concerned Mr A lacked detail about his investment so he would most likely had obtained this 
sooner to satisfy its questions. 
And I dont think the IM, or the answers it would have allowed Mr A to give, would have 
created any alarm. This set out that the company that was running the financial promotion 
for company W was authorised by the FCA and that the information should be reviewed by, 
amongst others, investment professionals  which I think Mr A and in turn Nationwide would 
have been comfortable with as thats what he believed the broker to be. There was not a 
requirement for companies issuing mini-bonds to raise money to be authorised by the FCA. 
So the fact company W was not regulated would not have caused Nationwide any particular 
concern.
And there is no record of any published regulatory warning about company W in 2017. So it 
seems at the time of the event there would have been no public information that Nationwide 
ought to have been aware of and reacted to. Or indeed that Mr A would have come across 
had Nationwide suggested he first complete more checks.
Its also notable there were no warnings at that time about mini-bonds as a product. The 
FCA published more information about mini-bonds in May 2019 and highlighted some risks 
involved with investing in such instruments. But this information was published nearly two 
years after Mr A made his payments. The FCA temporarily banned the mass marketing of speculative mini-bonds to UK retail 
consumers from January 2020, whilst it consulted on permanent rules. It made the 
temporary ban permanent the following year. So I dont think Nationwide could have been 
reasonably aware of this given that this information was published around 30 months after 
Mr A made his payments. 
In the round, I dont think a proportionate level of questioning by Nationwide would have led 
it to conclude Mr A was at risk of financial harm and that it should not process the first 
payment. It follows I would not expect it to have intervened in the second lower value 
payment.
I have then thought about whether Nationwide did what this service would expect to recover 
the funds once Mr As representative made a formal claim in 2022. Given the length of time 
that had passed Im satisfied that recovery from the receiving bank was a not a viable option.
It follows for the reasons set out above I cannot fairly hold Nationwide liable for Mr As 
losses.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman