DRN-3608136
The complaint
Mr S complains Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) refused to remove an internal marker 
against his name relating to an old bank account, which prevented him obtaining a mortgage 
from another lender within the same banking group.  
What happened
Mr S says he applied for a mortgage but was told by his broker the lender had declined this, 
as RBS who were in the same banking group as them, had placed a marker against his 
name. Mr S says he discovered this related to a bank account he had held with RBS some 
years back but had since been repaid. Mr S says he raised this with RBS but it failed to get 
back to him in the timescales it promised and he was left with no option but to go elsewhere 
for his mortgage, which cost him further fees and interest at a higher rate. Mr S says RBS 
didnt deal with the problem he initially raised and cant see why the marker exists against 
him, given it has now been repaid. 
Mr S feels given the issues he faced with RBS and the time it took dealing with his issue, it 
should now pay for the additional costs he has incurred in securing a mortgage elsewhere, 
and not the £150 it offered for the poor service it provided.  
RBS says it accepts it didnt provide the service it should have when it was investigating why 
an internal marker was placed against Mr Ss name and offered £150 by way of an apology. 
RBS says it hadnt made a mistake when it applied the internal marker against him, as this is 
in line with its process when accounts are passed to its recoveries team, post acceptance of 
a common financial statement offer, and these remain in place indefinitely.
Mr S wasnt happy with RBSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt RBS were entitled to place the internal marker against Mr S, as this formed 
part of its process when customers bank accounts had been placed with its debt recovery 
team and/or sold to debt collection agencies  as it had here. The investigator felt RBS were 
entitled to decide whom it does business with based on historic information on that 
consumer.   
The investigator agreed RBS didnt provide the level of service it should have when looking 
into the matter for Mr S, but felt the compensation it had offered of £150 was reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr S to discover his mortgage application 
had been declined, because of a marker against his name with a bank within the same 
banking group as the proposed lender. I can also understand it would have been frustrating 
for Mr S to experience the poor levels of service and time delays from RBS, when he was 
trying to establish why the marker was in place. 
The first thing to say here is while Mr S is unhappy that a marker was still on his RBS file for 
an old overdraft debt he had since repaid, via recovery agents, I cant say that RBS were at 
fault for having it in place. I say this as this internal bank marker related to an overdraft 
facility that was placed with RBSs recovery team and subsequently passed to a debt 
recovery agent to agree a repayment plan. So here its fair to say while the debt had been 
repaid, there had been a genuine default on Mr Ss bank account, so its not for me to tell 
RBS it cant make an internal note of that on its records, after all that information might be 
needed for any future lending requests from Mr S, as part of its standard process. Afterall, 
RBS are entitled to decide whom it is prepared to do business with, based on such 
information and its not for me to tell it that it cant, or importantly what processes it must 
have in place, in these situations. 
Here unfortunately as Mr S had approached a bank within the same banking group, that 
information would have been known to them, hence its decision to decline the mortgage 
application. I cant consider the merits of that lenders decision to decline the mortgage 
application, even if it had approved subsequent loan facilities for Mr S as he suggests. I say 
this as that wasnt the original complaint to this service and that lender hasnt been given the 
opportunity to consider it. So, if Mr S feels strongly about that matter, it is for him to 
approach the mortgage lender to take the issue forward separately. 
Where I do agree with Mr S here, is with the quality of the service and the time RBS took to 
inform him exactly why there was a marker on his internal records. I can see that Mr S was 
promised a timescale to investigate this by RBS, but it fell short of that. But here RBS have 
acknowledged that poor level of service and from what I understand have paid Mr S £150 for 
that, which I am satisfised is a reasonable amount here. 
I should also say its not my role to penalise businesses when poor service issues occur, but 
to see that this is acknowledged by the business, apologised for and an appropriate and 
proportionate level of redress is paid  Im satisfied that happened here. 
Having said that I cant say the reason for Mr S incurring the costs he did when approaching 
a new lender, was down to the poor service RBS offered in investigating the matter of the 
marker. Its reasonable to say those costs were always likely to be payable once the 
mortgage lender had decided to decline Mr Ss mortgage application,if he was looking to 
apply for a mortgage elsewhere.
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of RBS here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 Barry White
Ombudsman