DRN-3238828
The complaint
Mr S complains that he lost out when ReAssure Limited (Reassure) reinstated his pension
into his employers pension scheme.
What happened
Mr S said he started work at age 16 and joined his employers pension scheme in 1983 
when he reached age 18. In May 1991 he was persuaded to move his pension to a Barclays 
Life Pension Plan as he believed this would offer him a better pension and more flexibility 
and control with potentially better financial performance. Barclays did a review at one point. 
He didnt re-join his employers pension as he felt reassured by them and saw no reason to
change. In1998 Barclays told him that a review had shown there had been some
disadvantage compared to his company scheme and an augmentation was paid into his
Barclays plan. It was said this would put him as far as possible, into the position he would
have been in had he remained a member of the employers pension plan.
By 1999 Barclays was recommending re-joining the employer pension plan and his IFA also
confirmed this advice. He had to wait for a period but then re-joined in January 2001. In 2019
he took early retirement at age 55. His pension was based on 33 years and 1 month of
service. Whereas from age 18 he had 36 years and 2 months unbroken service. He said this
gap must only stem from the time he was in the Barclays scheme. The shortfall of 3 years
and 1 month meant his pension was about £3,400 lower per year.  
ReAssure, who were now responsible for the business carried out by Barclays, rejected the
complaint. It said there was no evidence the pension review was completed incorrectly, and
the method of redress was offered and accepted at that time. It completed the review based
on the information supplied and a decision letter issued on 2 April 1998 explained the
redress. He accepted this on a form date 19 June 1998 and a redress payment of £557 was
added to his policy. It had sent a letter dated 15 December 1995 advising that he should
consider re-joining his employers pension scheme and saying that deciding not to do so
would mean he lost retirement benefits. The offer said that by accepting it was in full and
final settlement of the claim he had against Barclays. It also said it contacted Mr S to say it 
strongly suggested he should consider re-joining his employers pension scheme.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I set out a background chronology and said the
following.
Background chronology.
Mr S joined his employers pension scheme in 1983. He set up a Barclays pension policy
which started in 2 February 1990 and left his employers pension scheme. It seems Mr S
initially had two policies with Barclays.
Pension plan (policy ending 050) into which he paid his new contributions. This was started
in early 1990.
Pension Policy ending 744 accepted the transfer of the value of his accrued benefits from his
employers scheme up to 1990.
Policy 050
It seems that this policy was picked up in the first phase of the regulator directed reviews of
policies of this type. Barclays says it sent a letter of 15 December 1995 saying this policy
was part of a pension review. It encouraged him to re-join his employers pension scheme as
he could be losing valuable benefits. The letter is headed in capitals to say this is an
important letter, please read carefully
On 3 June 1997 Barclays wrote regarding policy 050. It said it had marked its records to
show he wasnt prepared to re-join his company scheme and as a result its liability will be
capped from 2 June 1997. The letter went on to ask for further information.
There are internal notes of a phase 1  review dated 20/12/99 which recommends
reinstatement into the employers pension scheme.
On 10 November 1999 Barclays wrote to say it had not heard from Mr S, so it assumed he
had no concerns about lost pension entitlement from not joining his employers pension. Mr 
S replied on 11 November 1999 to say he was in the process of reinstatement.
Policy ending 744
It seemed this policy was not within the first phase of the regulator directed review but was in
the second phase.
Barclays wrote to Mr S various letters as follows: -
1. on 8 September 1995 to say that it did not fall within a review category and no further
action was being taken. It said it hoped this eased any concerns he may have
regarding the policy
2. on 24 February 1999 to say this policy was now part of a review and Barclays wrote
and said if you have the option of joining a pension scheme with your current employer, we
would strongly suggest that you discuss this opportunity with your employer or
scheme administrator. You may be losing valuable retirement benefits if you choose
not to join the scheme.
3. 23 August 1999 Barclays wrote to say it was reviewing the policy but wanted to
stress the importance of joining his employers pension scheme. It warned that if he
decided not to join his redress might be affected by this decision
Other key letters
2 April 1998 Barclays wrote to Mr S regarding the review of his policies ending 050, 744 and
042 and 744. It said that as at the date of the review (1 February 1998) the value of his
Barclays Life Personal Pension was less than the value of the benefits he would have had
available to him in his employers pension scheme. It proposed to pay an amount of £557
and this took place in June 1998. This letter made no mention of re-joining his employers
pension scheme, although I noted I do not have a copy of the final signature page of the
letter.
16 September 1999 Mr S wrote to Barclays to say that he had discovered there was a
difference between a transfer in and a reinstatement. It was the latter that he was looking for
and he expected to get unbroken pensionable service in his employers scheme. He didnt
expect this to a be problem as the 1997 review had produced an augmentation of £557 that
was paid February 1998 for loss up to 2 June 1997.On 11 November 1999 Mr S wrote to Barclays to say he was in the process of re-joining the
scheme but there was a 12-month waiting period, so he would not be readmitted until around
September 2000. He goes on to say that until he re-joins the extent of his disadvantage and
his reinstatement should reflect unbroken pensionable service.
4 December 2000 Mr S signed a transfer in form for his employers pension scheme
confirming the proceeds would purchase 13 years and 10 months service. Mr S said this
was later increased to around 14 years when the final amount was paid.
The letter 21 December 2000 from Barclays to the employers pension fund says it is making
payment in full and final settlement of claims against policies ending 407, 050, 042 and 744.
A similar letter is also sent on the same date to Mr S by Barclays listing the amount it is
paying to his employers pension in full and final settlement of all claims in respect of these
four policies. Mr S signs a form dated 4 December addressed to the pension fund trustees
confirming this will give him 13 years and 10 months credit in the scheme.
On 23 December 2000 a cheque for about £53,000 was sent to Mr Ss employers pension
fund. The letter said this was in full and final settlement of all claims against his policy.
Attached was a letter of 7 December 2000 from the pension scheme to Barclays confirming
Mr S had requested a transfer to take place and the trustee board had agreed to accept the
transfer. Attached was a from signed by Mr S on 4 December 2000 and addressed to the
manager of the employers pension scheme confirming he asked the scheme to accept
about £52,000 from Barclays and that he elected this to be used to provide him with 13
years and 10 months additional pensionable service.
Mr S believed that the gap in his pensionable service was due to the review and the fact his
pensionable service was capped. However, this had not been confirmed by ReAssure. I
noted however that ReAssure referred to the limit on service in its reply to the complaint. But
it was possible that the gap is also due to assumptions used in calculation of redress for
reinstatement and growth in the interim.
I had reviewed the correspondence regarding capping liability. I considered the impact of the
various letters and when he re-joined the scheme.
On balance I didnt think I had seen clear evidence to show that Mr S understood why he
needed to re-join his employers pension scheme and how the cap on liability worked.
However, I accepted that I had only seen part of the papers from the time. ReAssure might
be able to produce more evidence to show that Mr S should have understood and accepted
that he was potentially worse off by not re-joining his employers scheme and that by not re-
joining it would cap its liability so as not to remain responsible for his loss going into the
future.
If there wasnt any further evidence, I still needed to consider that when he was reinstated in
to the scheme he signed to accept a credit of just over 13 years and confirmed that this was
in full and final settlement of claims in relation to all policies. Such a settlement would
normally be legally binding and couldnt be set aside.
However, if the settlement was calculated on the mistaken belief that Barclays liability was
capped at June 1997 and for the reasons given that cap was not effective, I thought it would
be fair and reasonable that the reinstatement should be re-visited on the correct basis.
I considered when I thought the earliest date Barclays could reasonably have expected
Mr S to re-join his employers pension scheme. For the reasons given in my first provisional
decision I didnt think it was December 1995 or June 1997. It could have been 12 monthsfrom 1997 being the end of the waiting period, or in 1998 when the settlement was paid or
the date, he did take action following the letter sent in 1999 that resulted in reinstatement in
2000/1.
I thought the earliest date he could reasonably have been expected to re-join was in 1999
when he did so. On that basis I thought the reinstatement should be done based on
pensionable service up to the date he re-joined.
I therefore proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Mr S should be reinstated in
accordance with the terms of the regulator review at the time based on his pensionable
service up to the date he did re-join the scheme. However, I emphasised this
conclusion was provisional, and ReAssure may well produce further evidence to support the
approach it took.
In addition, before I issued any final decision, I asked ReAssure to provide some further
information.
Mr S had nothing further to add.
ReAssure provided a full copy of the December 1995 letter showing Mr Ss full address.
It also sent a copy of some of the review papers. This showed details for Mr Ss employers
scheme showing a one year waiting period to re-join his employers pension scheme. This
showed the waiting period was considered in the review process.
ReAssure said it couldnt supply a full copy of the 1998 letter regarding payment of £557 in
settlement but provided a copy policy schedule. This showed the payment as an ex gratia
payment and the policy is signed on 10 June 1998.
1. It confirmed the start date of each policy as follows:-
a. 7050  Start date 02/02/1990 Personal Pension Plan  Regular premiums of
£93.60 per month  premiums ceased on 02/11/2000  transferred out
14/12/2000
b. 7042  Start date 02/02/1990 DSS Benefits  transferred out 14/12/2020
c. 2744  Start date 28/05/1991 Personal Pension Plan - Transfer in protected
rights £1,826.02  transferred out 14/12/2000 and 2744  Start date
28/05/1991 Occupational Arrangement - Transfer in £2,871.38 transferred
out 14/12/2000
d. 0407  Start date 01/02/1998 Augment £557.00  transferred out 14/12/2000
ReAssure said that there was never an agreement to reinstate Mr S back into his employers
pension scheme. What seemed to have happened was that Mr S decided to re-join (not that
he was reinstated) and his policy benefits were transferred into the scheme when he re-
joined.
Unfortunately, the transfer back didnt purchase as much pensionable service as Mr
S missed out on.
It said it had no reason to believe the £557 payment in settlement was incorrect and it was
calculated using the methodology and assumptions set out by the regulator at the time. It
had acted within the parameters set by the regulator for the pension review.It also produced further documents to show it wrote to Mr S in November 1999 to say that it
had made an error in contacting him in February 1999 and August 1999 about reviewing his
transfer policy ending 744 under phase 2 as this had already been included when it reviewed
050 and 042 under phase 1. There was therefore no additional review or redress paid as the
£557 processed in June 1998 following its offer in April 1998 included it.
My second provisional decision
As I said in my first provisional decision, this complaint related to pension reviews completed
in accordance with guidance provided by the regulator. In such cases this service would not
seek to interfere with any settlement reached on that basis unless there was shown to be a
mistake.
Further when a claim is settled on the basis that it is in full and final settlement the law
would not typically allow such a settlement to be reopened.
Based on the further information supplied it seemed clear that any claims that Mr S had for 
all of his policies were considered in the review completed in April 1998 and the settlement
payment of £557 was paid into the policy issued in June 1998. The later papers issued about
a further review were issued in error.
I had no evidence to show that the amount paid in 1998 was not calculated correctly and no
basis to reopen a settlement that was made on a legally binding basis and in full and final
settlement.
The issues relating to the date that liability was capped were no longer relevant as all claims
were settled when the first review was completed and settled in 1998. Whether or not Mr S
re-joined his employers pension scheme would have no further impact after that payment
was made as it was in full and final settlement.
I also noted that the one year waiting period for re-joining the scheme was listed in the
documentation submitted as part of the review process, so should have been taken into
account when the redress calculations were completed.
It is unfortunate that in error a further review was commenced in 1999 which caused
confusion. But in many ways, it ended up being to Mr Ss benefit. I say that because the
letters sent in error, for the second review, encouraged him to re-join his employers pension
scheme, which is what he eventually did. That meant that going forward he earned
pensionable service in his employers pension scheme. If he had not received those letters
he might never have re-joined or transferred back into the scheme. With the benefit of
hindsight this seems to have been beneficial for Mr S.
As part of re-joining his employers pension scheme he also elected to transfer his benefits
back in as well. It is clear from the papers that what was paid to Mr Ss employers scheme
was a transfer and not a reinstatement. I say that because the correspondence between the
parties talks about how many years of pensionable service the transferred in money will buy.
If it had been a reinstatement, I would expect it to state how much would be required to buy
a specific number of years of pensionable service.
Mr S signed papers at the time which showed that the transferred money would provide
pensionable service credits that were less than he had lost by leaving the scheme. So, he
should have known, at the time that there would be a gap in his pensionable service. I have
not seen evidence to suggest that the transfer payments were incorrect. Mr S signed to
accept the pensionable service credits that were offered and that these were in full and final
settlement.So, it seems that the gap in pension which Mr S is experiencing within his employers 
pension scheme is most likely due to the fact the compensation he was paid in 1998 
together with the money and growth in his policies in the intervening years wasnt sufficient 
to re-buy full credits within his employers pension scheme for the years when he wasnt in 
the employers pension scheme. There could be several reasons why that is the case. For 
example, ReAssure commented that the assumptions used in calculating redress were not 
mirrored in reality. But that doesnt mean the amount calculated and paid in compensation in 
1998 was wrong nor that the value paid out from the policies was wrong. I dont have any 
evidence to show that was the case.
I can understand that this is very disappointing for Mr S and he feels that he has lost out and
is now worse off than he would have been had he stayed in the employers pension scheme.
But I am afraid I cannot uphold his complaint as I do not have any evidence to show there
was a mistake in the amount paid in compensation or in the transfer back into his employers
pension scheme.
I didnt propose to uphold this complaint.
ReAssure didnt make any further comment.
Mr S said he was disappointed with my decision. He wasnt clear why the letter of 24 
November 1999 completely changed the initial provisional outcome. It contradicted the letter 
sent in 1995 saying that policy 744 had not been reviewed. With respect to re-joining the 
company pension scheme rather than reinstatement, he didnt know what difference that 
would have had at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration that he was given the impression that there was a second 
review of his policies. But that doesnt change my conclusions for the reasons already given. 
All of his policies were considered under the first review and a payment made in full and final 
settlement of claims under all of them. The later letters regarding capping liability at certain 
dates were not relevant as the liability had already been settled in full so such a cap would 
not make any difference.
So, while I am sorry to disappoint Mr S I cannot uphold this complaint for the reasons given.
Putting things right
As I am not upholding this complaint no action is required from ReAssure. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman