DRN-2893798
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) caused him a loss by failing to 
respond appropriately to suspicious activity on his credit card.
What happened
On 7 March 2020, Mr C was abroad with friends for a stag weekend. Late that 
evening, he says they were approached on the street and led to a club offering free 
shots. On entry, it turned out this was a strip club. 
After taking the free shots, Mr C says one of his friends was ill. He offered to buy a 
staff member a drink to apologise, but they told him to buy a dance instead. After 
that, his memory is patchy. He now suspects the shot may have been spiked. He 
does recall having the card reader shoved under [his] nose at some stage.
Early in the morning, Mr C tried to leave  but the venue wouldnt let him, insisting he 
needed to pay more. It had his driving licence, which it used as leverage, and also 
took his wallet. When he tried to pay, all his cards declined. At the venues 
instruction, Mr C called another bank whose card hed been using. Theyd blocked 
his account due to the activity. Despite speaking to Mr C, they still werent 
comfortable removing this. He had to leave behind some of his belongings.  
On returning home, Mr C discovered that the transactions on his Sainsburys credit 
card from that night came to around £6,000. Whereas the other cards hed used had 
both been blocked after a few hundred pounds of spending at the club. He then 
received a letter from Sainsburys dated 9 March 2020 (which is when the 
transactions are dated on his statement) saying that suspicious activity had been 
identified on his account which it needed to talk to him about. There had been no 
further spending on the account since the club. Mr C challenged why Sainsburys 
hadnt taken further action at the time. But it said it wouldnt refund the transactions 
as hed authorised them.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
concluded that Sainsburys had identified, but failed to act on, suspicious activity. 
And that appropriate intervention would likely have prevented the loss. So he 
concluded that Sainsburys should refund the fourth transaction onwards, with 
interest, and remove any negative credit information reported as a result. 
Sainsburys disagrees with the investigator. It says its systems were down when the 
transactions were made, and the back-up system allowed them to go through as they 
were authenticated securely by chip and PIN. It also said that bar transactions were 
common on Mr Cs account, so it would be unusual for these to be flagged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 apply here. 
These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments 
themselves. But if the customer did make the payments, theyre presumed liable in the first 
instance.
It seems there would have been opportunities for Mr Cs PIN and card to have been 
intercepted, and he doesnt have a clear memory of authorising all the payments. But what 
Im deciding is whats more likely. By his own testimony, he did authorise at least some 
payments. And he recalls being given the card reader at points  which wouldnt be 
necessary if someone else had his card and knew his PIN. So I think its safest to treat these 
as authorised transactions  in the sense that Mr C more likely completed the chip and PIN 
process to request the payments. That doesnt necessarily require him to have been aware 
of the transaction amounts, or to have understood what he was authorising. Overall, my 
starting point is that Mr C would generally be liable for these payments.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that 
Sainsburys should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, it appears Sainsburys did identify these payments as suspicious. But it hasnt 
been able to confirm when it identified this. So, Ive considered when it ought reasonably to 
have identified that the activity was suspicious. And what action it shouldve taken at that 
point.
As mentioned above, from what Mr C has told us, he knowingly completed at least one 
transaction at the club. I appreciate Sainsburys point that hes previously used his credit 
card in pubs and bars. But his statements show that most of his transactions were for other 
purposes. He also hadnt been using his card for several months. And the level of the 
payments didnt fit his previous pattern of spending. This was a series of high-value 
transactions, particularly in comparison to his usual level of spending at bars. Mr Cs credit 
card history mainly consists of low level, everyday spending. Its rare to see him making 
payments over £50. Whereas here, in just over an hour, three transactions had been 
completed totalling approximately £1,200.
Following this, there was a declined payment of almost £900 due to an invalid PIN. This was 
followed by another transaction, for a slightly lower amount, two minutes later. Then there 
was a series of escalating payments  with a transaction of over £1,400 around twenty 
minutes later, followed by another of approximately £2,500 within the next thirty minutes. 
Then further large, unusual payments were attempted. These were declined due to a mixture 
of issues with the PIN  and lack of available funds. Prior to the fourth successful transaction, £1,200 had been spent in around one hour  
through a series of increasing payments. There had been also been a higher transaction 
attempted with an incorrect PIN, followed by a successful transaction for a slightly lower 
amount. These are common indicators of potential fraud or scams. And overall, the activity 
appears very uncharacteristic for Mr C, who  when he did use his card  was only using it 
for much lower transactions. By the fourth payment, I think Sainsburys ought reasonably to 
have identified the activity as suspicious  and taken steps to prevent the risk of harm.
I accept that banks have a duty not to delay payments unduly. But thats not an unfettered 
duty and reasonable checks and balances are also required as part of the broad regulatory 
landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial 
harm. When plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic account activity exist, its not 
unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to respond proportionately.
Sainsburys says its back-up system allowed the payments to go through as they were 
being authorised via chip and PIN. The only action Ive been able to identify that it took was 
to send a letter the next day asking Mr C to get in touch. Im not persuaded this was 
proportionate. The letter had no impact in the moment, and would have taken days to reach 
Mr C. And, as Sainsburys will be aware, its common for scams to occur in which the 
consumer authorises the payment, unaware of the scam. Or for fraud to occur where the 
fraudster has obtained the consumers card and PIN. So Im not persuaded it was 
reasonable to keep allowing the payments to go through without taking any steps to ensure 
Mr C wasnt at risk. 
Whilst different banks will naturally have different measures/systems in place, its an 
interesting comparison that Mr Cs other banks blocked his cards (at lower spending levels) 
until they could contact him about the payments. And one did speak to him  but still wasnt 
comfortable removing the block. Given this, I consider it likely that, if Sainsburys had tried to 
contact Mr C or asked him to get in touch before processing the payments, it would either 
have received no response  or a response that wouldnt have adequately alleviated its 
concerns. It doesnt sound as though Mr C was able to respond or give a legitimate reason 
for the payments to be authorised. Especially as, based on what hes told us, it seems 
unlikely he was aware of the level of the transactions. I therefore think appropriate 
intervention would likely have prevented the loss.
Ive also considered whether its fair to characterise these payments as a fraud or scam. Im 
satisfied it is. I think Mr Cs version of events is plausible. Whether he was drugged, or 
whether he was simply drunk, it seems credible that he was tricked and/or coerced into 
making these payments. In those circumstances, I also think its unsurprising that theres 
some lack of clarity or small discrepancies in his recollections. Additionally, the pattern of 
these transactions looks odd. It doesnt seem likely to me that these payments were simply 
for drinks or services. It appears deliberate that the amounts were rising with each payment. 
And its unclear why, if these were genuine sums owed, a slightly lower amount would be 
agreed and accepted when a higher amount was blocked. Overall, it seems more likely that 
someone was acting deliberately and dishonestly to get Mr Cs money. 
Looking at the later unsuccessful payment attempts, these further suggest that the 
transactions werent for money legitimately owed. For example, around half an hour after 
the last successful payment (~£,2500), a payment of £7,673.04 was attempted. When that 
didnt go through  there wasnt enough money available  a still significant, but 
substantially lower, payment of £3,488.30 was attempted one minute later. And when this 
didnt go through, £1,994.03 was attempted. Followed by £3.03  which was declined as an 
invalid PIN transaction. All further transaction attempts were declined due to bad PIN. Its 
hard to reconcile these attempted transactions with genuine spending at the club.I appreciate that Mr C was drinking and his memory is unclear, but I dont think thats 
enough to suggest he was aware of, or ought to have perceived, the risk of harm from fraud 
and scams. His account of what happened seems consistent with a known type of scam, 
where consumers are tricked or extorted out of money in situations like this  as Sainsburys 
own fraud notes acknowledge. So I dont consider it fair to hold Mr C at fault for what 
happened. As stated above, I think Sainsburys ought to have taken further action in 
response to the suspicious activity. And Im persuaded this would have likely prevented 
some of his loss.
Putting things right
Mr C acknowledges authorising at least one transaction in the club. And I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Sainsburys to have identified the risk immediately. But, as Ive 
explained above, I think it should, and could, have intervened successfully by the time of the 
fourth successful payment (for £801.47 with a £16.42 fee, according to his statements). So 
its from that point onwards that Ive decided it should refund his transactions.
Sainsburys should also pay Mr C 8% simple interest per year on these transactions, from 
the date he paid the debt to the date of settlement. This is to compensate him for the loss of 
use of those funds. For example, he could otherwise have used the credit limit. And hes told 
us he had to take out other lending to pay off the debt.
If any adverse information has been reported on Mr Cs credit file due to these transactions, 
Sainsburys should also amend this as if the fourth payment onwards had been prevented 
from going through.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above, within 28 days of Mr Cs acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman