DRN-3405324
The complaint
Mr M says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 60-month instalment loan for £1,000 that Bamboo provided to
Mr M on 23 November 2019. The monthly repayments were £57.22 and the total repayable 
was £3,432.99.
Mr M says proper checks were not carried out, and the interest rate was extortionate. He is 
unhappy the debt was later sold, and he wants the balance written-off and the loan removed 
from his credit file. In response to his complaint Bamboo offered to reduce the outstanding 
balance by £343.32 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, he thought the checks were not 
proportionate, but he hadnt seen any evidence that better checks would have led to a 
different lending decision. Unhappy with that assessment Mr M asked for an ombudsmans 
review and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr
M would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this meant that
the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M 
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr M. It asked for his monthly income, his employment status and his residential status.
It completed an income verification check with a third-party and used national statistics to 
make an assumption about his living costs. It carried out a credit check to understand his 
credit history and his existing credit commitments. I cant see it asked about the purpose of 
the loan. Based on these checks Bamboo thought it was fair to lend.
These checks showed that Mr Ms income was £1,541 and his outgoings were £1,368 so the 
loan appeared affordable. But a significant proportion of Mr Ms outgoings were existing 
credit commitments as he had £14,220 of unsecured debt at the time. So given the term of 
the loan I think Bamboo out to have carried out a fuller financial review to ensure Mr M was 
not going to be over-extended by taking out this loan. 
Mr M has not been able to provide copies of his bank statements from the time, so I have not 
been able to recreate what better checks might have shown Bamboo. As the checks it 
carried out showed Mr M had £173 disposable income, and whilst he had six active credit 
accounts they were all up-to-date, I have no grounds to fairly conclude better checks would 
have most likely shown the loan to be unaffordable. The credit check showed Mr M was 
using £147 of his £500 overdraft facility, and this had reduced versus the prior month, and 
he had no active payday loans. Whilst he had used them previously this was back in 2014 
and they were all settled so this would not be a fair reason not to lend. There is one entry 
showing long term arrears but this was a utility account that had been settled in 2016. So I 
dont find there was such a level of adverse data that Bamboo ought to have realised there 
was a risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr M. There was no evidence of 
financial difficulty at the time of the loan application.
It follows based on the available evidence I dont think Bamboo was wrong to give this loan 
to Mr M.
Ive also thought about whether Bamboo acted unfairly in some other way and I haventseen any evidence that it did. Mr M complained the interest rate was extortionate. I accept 
the interest rate was high, but Mr M had to actively engage in the application process, so I 
think its likely that he was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. It was clear on the loan 
agreement. I havent seen anything which makes me think that Bamboo treated Mr M 
unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. He was also unhappy 
Bamboo sold the debt to a third party when he failed to make his repayments. But the terms 
of the terms of the loan allow this.
It follows I am not asking Bamboo to take any corrective action. As it previously offered to 
reduce Mr Ms balance by £343.32, as a gesture of goodwill, it should now liaise with the 
new debt owner to make this happen. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman