DRN-1710041
 
The complaint
Miss M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in April 
1994. Neither party can be sure where the policy was sold.
Miss M says it was implied she had to have the MPPI policy in order to obtain the mortgage. 
She thinks Nationwide mis-sold her the policy.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Nationwide hasnt been able to give us much information from the time of the sale and it has 
been unable to give us copies of any of the original sales documentation. But I dont think 
thats unusual given how long its been since the MPPI was sold. So Ive looked at 
everything I do have to decide what I think most likely happened.
Having done this Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint because I dont think Nationwide 
gave her clear enough information about the cost and benefit of the policy.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy but it still shouldve provided enough information 
about the policy so Miss M could decide if she wanted the insurance or not.
Nationwide says Miss M wouldve been given a leaflet (a mortgage protection cover leaflet) 
which fully set out the policys potential benefits with instructions to calculate the cost of the 
cover. But I dont know if Miss M was given the leaflet. And even if she did get it and read it 
fully, it didnt set out the exact cost of her policy  she wouldve had to work it out, which I 
dont think is good enough.
Nationwide says Miss M wouldve been sent a full policy document after she took out the 
policy which showed the cost. And the ongoing cost was sent to Miss M on her annual 
renewal notices and mortgage statements. But these would have all been sent to her after 
shed agreed to take out the PPI, not during the sale.I think the cost wouldve mattered to Miss M because the policy was expensive for the 
benefit it provided. And I dont think shed have thought it was good value for money if shed 
have known how much it cost.
Nationwide have provided what it says are the correct costs for the policy sold to Miss M, but 
the latest figures provided dont change my findings given above. It also says that Miss M 
chose a fixed rate mortgage rather than a variable rate one. This made the mortgage 
cheaper and in turn the MPPI policy more expensive.
I understand the point Nationwide is making but I still dont think Miss M wouldve bought the 
policy if shed had clear information about cost. So, I think shes lost out because of what 
Nationwide did wrong.
putting things right
Nationwide should put Miss M in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
Nationwide should:
Pay Miss M the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman