DRN-3188350
The complaint
Mr O says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat provided to Mr O in September 
2020. The loan was for £550 and was to be repaid over six months in instalments up to a 
maximum of £167.03. From what I can see, there is a balance still outstanding for the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Os complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
Moneyboat didnt reply to the adjudicators view, and so the complaint was passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Moneyboat asked Mr O about his monthly income and outgoings and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr O said he earned £1,800 a month and his outgoings were £330. But Moneyboat 
increased this to £800 leaving him with a monthly disposable income of £1,000. Mr O later 
said he was out of work and on benefits at the time. However, I think it was reasonable for 
Moneyboat to rely on what Mr O had told it, unless it had reason to question this. 
And I think Moneyboat did have reason to question what Mr O had told it in his application. 
This is because Mr O had made a previous application, which was declined, and Moneyboat 
had carried out credit checks for each application. As our adjudicator explained, between 
these credit checks, the amount of outstanding credit Mr O owed increased from £1,233 to 
£4,458. Also, Mr O had had four defaults in the last twelve months before his second 
application. This suggests that Mr Os borrowing was increasing and he had trouble repaying 
his loans. Also, he had become reliant on loans and would most likely be unable to 
sustainably repay his loan, or any subsequent loans. 
And so I think Moneyboat should have been prompted by this information it had to carry out 
proportionate affordability checks on Mr O before providing the loan. It could, for example, 
have asked to see Mr Os bank statements. Mr O has provided these to us. and I think they 
show that Mr O was having problems managing his money:  
His monthly income was in benefits rather than a wage.
Mr O was gambling regularly and heavily. 
So I think that if Moneyboat had carried out proportionate and sufficient checks on Mr Os 
finances, it would have seen that this and any subsequent loans were unsustainable for him. 
And so Im satisfied that Moneyboat was wrong to have provided this loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Moneyboat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr O, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr O may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr O in a 
compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr O would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to do the 
following:
refund all interest and charges Mr O paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
this refund should be offset against the outstanding principal of the loan and any 
remainder should be refunded to Mr O. Or, if a balance remains outstanding, an 
affordable repayment plan should be arranged. 
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Os credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint. I require 
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to carry out the redress 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman