DRN-3063271
The complaint
Mr S complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined a claim hes 
made on a Buildmark building warranty.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I have only provided a 
summary here:
Mr S lives in a property the freehold of which is owned by a Housing Association, 
which Ill refer to as C.
He says hes experienced a number of leaks in the property over the years.
The leaks have been reported to C and it dealt with the external causes as part of its 
property maintenance responsibilities.
It arranged for the damage to the inside of Mr Ss property to be repaired under a 
separate buildings insurance policy through an insurer Ill refer to as Z.
Mr S was responsible for paying the excess under this policy and says over the years 
hes had to do this five times.
He wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to NHBC, as the provider of the 
building warranty, saying he thought the property hadnt been finished properly and 
so it was ultimately responsible for the leaks and the expense hed incurred.
He also said NHBCs communication had been poor.
NHBC said C was the Buildmark policyholder and it had to obtain Cs permission to 
communicate with Mr S directly and this had caused some delays.
It said C had chosen to pursue the leaks through the building insurance policy rather 
than through NHBC. And it couldnt consider retrospective claims where damage had 
already been repaired several times by that insurer.
Mr S brought his complaint to this Service and our investigator didnt uphold it, 
concluding it was reasonable for NHBC to seek permission from C to look at the 
claim as it was the policyholder, not Mr S. 
She also thought as the repairs had already been completed through the buildings 
insurance  and one time in 2014 by the original builder - NHBC hadnt been given 
the opportunity to assess any defects it might be liable for. She therefore didnt think 
NHBC were responsible for reimbursing Mr S his excess fees
Mr S asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As C was the Buildmark policyholder Im satisfied it was reasonable NHBC sought its 
permission to consider Mr Ss claim and complaint.
Because it had to do this, there was a delay while it waited for C to respond but 
NHBC also accepts it could have acted more quickly and communicated better when 
dealing with the matter. Its apologised for this and Im satisfied this is reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
C is also the buildings insurance policyholder, and it was responsible for the decision 
about which policy it claimed on. It chose to claim on the buildings insurance through 
Z rather than on the Buildmark policy. So, I see no reason to hold NHBC responsible 
for Cs decision.
Z undertook repairs on several occasions, resulting in Mr S being charged multiple 
excess fees, but his property continued to experience leaks.
I understand why Mr S approached NHBC when he did as the Buildmark cover was 
due to end shortly. But by this time, repairs had already been undertaken a number 
of times and NHBC was deprived of the opportunity to assess any defects or physical 
damage it might have been liable for under the policy.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect NHBC to reimburse Mr S the 
excess fees hes paid on the buildings insurance policy when theres no evidence it 
would have been liable for any repairs under the Buildmark warranty.
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking NHBC to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman