DRN-1863532
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with the service British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) provided when she 
reported a leak.
What happened
Ms W had HomeCare Four home emergency landlord cover with BG for a flat which she let.
The tenant told Ms W that a pipe was leaking into the flat downstairs. She reported it to BG 
and it arranged for an engineer to attend. After the planned appointment time had passed, 
Ms W called BG again. BG said its engineer had attended but couldnt gain access, so left a 
card. After complaining about the next appointment deadline BG offered for the following 
morning, Ms W was given a new appointment for that same evening.
BG attended and, after Ms W removed the kitchen cupboard to provide access, the engineer 
repaired the leak. Unfortunately, the engineer damaged the cold water pipe and advised Ms 
W to contact BG again for it to arrange a repair to the pipe.
Ms W called BG that night and arranged an appointment, which the tenant later rearranged 
for a day later. When BG attended, the engineer said the pipe wasnt covered under the 
policy. He emailed a private quote for the work to Ms W, who hadnt been present for the 
appointment.
Unhappy with BGs claim that the damage its engineer caused wasnt covered, Ms W asked 
BG to come out again to fix the pipe. BG attended two days later and repaired the cold water 
pipe as well as the original leak which had continued to run into the downstairs flat. 
Ms W complained to BG and after an exchange of calls and emails, BG paid Ms W £130 for 
the inconvenience caused. Ms W wasnt happy with the sum offered because she had 
incurred costs, as follows:
waived £190 of her tenants rent
travel costs
loss of half a days pay
a small gift for her neighbour in the downstairs flat;
offer to contribute to redecorating the downstairs flat
Ms W asked BG to cover her costs and pay compensation for the inconvenience caused to 
her and her tenant, but it thought its offer was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that some of the inconvenience 
was due to the leak itself which BG wasnt responsible for. But for the service shortfalls 
identified, which BG didnt dispute, our investigator thought that its offer was fair.
Ms W didnt agree. She repeated her request for compensation and for BG to cover her lost 
income and travel costs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The underlying issues here are that BG didnt attend the first appointment promptly, the leak 
wasnt properly repaired, and, after its engineer damaged the cold water pipe, her tenants 
were left without cold water and use of a washing machine for seven days. Because of this, 
Ms W says she has lost income and incurred additional costs.
Little of the circumstances around this complaint is disputed, so Ill focus on the key issues 
and the complaint as a whole, while deciding whether what BG did was fair and reasonable, 
or whether it shouldve done more.
Ms Ws policy covers her tenanted property for emergency situations, including leaking 
pipes.  The terms of the policy allow tenants to make direct contact with BG, taking some of 
the pressure off landlords:
The added benefits you get with us
We'll speak to your tenants. If your tenants need something fixed or inspected, they can 
arrange a visit.
Our engineers call ahead so you know when they're on their way.
Ive commented on this in particular because Ms W said that the engineer didnt turn up 
before the deadline for the first appointment. BG says there was no answer at the door, so a 
card was left. However, one of the benefits of this landlord policy is that the engineer will call 
ahead. It seems that didnt happen, so I can understand why Ms W felt frustrated and 
doubtful about BGs claim that an engineer attended within the correct timeframe.
The engineer attended around 90 minutes after the original deadline. I know Ms W had 
called BG a few times before then, but some of those calls were before the first deadline. At 
that point BG hadnt failed to attend so I dont think its fair to include the earlier calls as 
evidence of inconvenience caused by BG. But it shouldnt have been necessary for Ms W to 
chase BG for an update once the deadline had passed. I think thats a shortfall in service.
The engineer believed the leak was repaired during the first appointment but, unfortunately, 
he damaged the cold water pipe in the process. I understand that sometimes accidents 
happen, especially when working in a tight space, but I think BG shouldve done more here. 
Instead of telling Ms W to contact BG to make another appointment for the new damage to 
be repaired, I think the engineer couldve arranged that for her, or at least made sure BG 
was aware of the repair needed. Doing so mightve prevented the subsequent shortfalls in 
service. 
All the above relates to the first appointment. Ms W goes on to say that she was 
inconvenienced because she cancelled plans for that evening, and she incurred costs for 
travelling to meet the engineer for the appointment. However, the original leak wasnt BGs 
fault and Ms W wouldve experienced the inconvenience and incurred the same costs had it 
arrived within the deadline, fixed the leak and not damaged the pipe. So, I think BGs 
mistakes here are limited to missing the deadline and not arranging the follow up work for 
Ms W.Moving on to the second appointment, Ms W didnt attend so there was no direct 
inconvenience or cost to her. The tenant arranged the appointment for that day so I can only 
assume that it wasnt inconvenient for them. But the shortfall in service here is that the 
engineer was unaware the damage was caused by the previous engineer and he refused to 
cover the work under the policy. Ms W also complains that he emailed her a quote for the 
work.
I agree that this is a shortfall. The matter couldve been resolved during the second 
appointment if the first engineer had logged the details with BG properly. Although Ms W 
complained that she couldve been out of pocket if shed paid for the quoted work, she didnt 
accept the quote or pay so there is nothing for BG to fix. So, while I agree the appointment 
wasnt successful and is a shortfall on BGs part, I think the inconvenience caused to Ms W 
is relatively small. 
I understand that there was some confusion caused when Ms W called to arrange a third, 
same day appointment because of a provisional date already booked in. Nevertheless, BG 
did attend on the day she called and fixed both the damaged pipe and the original leak. Im 
not aware that Ms W knew until then that the leak was ongoing, possibly because the 
outward signs of it were in the downstairs flat. Having to reattend to repair a leak isnt 
necessarily uncommon. Its possible the first engineer believed the leak was fixed  I doubt 
he wouldve left the appointment thinking otherwise. And Ms W didnt have to attend 
because BG couldve dealt directly with her tenant. I understand that, after the second 
appointment, Ms W mightve preferred to be at the flat, but that was still her choice and, to 
some degree, part of being a landlord. So I dont think its fair to say BG caused significant 
inconvenience, though I agree there was some shortfall in service because of the confusion 
around appointments. 
Ms W bought her neighbour a gift as an apology and offered to contribute towards the 
decoration needed to repair damage caused by the leak. She also reduced her tenants rent 
by £190 for the week they were without cold water and use of a washing machine. In turn Ms 
W would like BG to cover those costs along with the cost of her travel and loss of pay when 
she attended the appointment. As Ive said above, it was Ms Ws choice to attend the 
appointment, so I dont think its fair to ask BG to cover her travel costs or loss of pay. I can 
understand why Ms W made the offers she did to her neighbour and tenant  shes a 
conscientious landlord. But some of the damage to Ms Ws neighbours flat wouldve been 
caused before the leak was reported to BG so it isnt responsible for contributing towards 
redecorating costs. Ms W made those decisions and I dont think its fair to ask BG to 
reimburse her. 
Overall, I think that BG made mistakes here, but I think theyre limited to late attendance at 
the first appointment, general poor customer service in terms of making appointments, and a 
lack of clear communication between BG and its engineers leading to inconvenience for Ms 
W. BG offered Ms W £130 in recognition of its shortfalls, and I think thats fair given the 
circumstances described. I wont be asking BG to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman