DRN-3371740
The complaint
H and Mr H are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt credit their bank account with the full 
amount of a cash deposit that they made in branch.
What happened
H and Mr H deposited £10,400 into their account in cash in a Lloyds branch. However, when 
they later checked the account into which the money had been paid, they saw that only 
£10,200 had been credited to the account.
H and Mr H contacted Lloyds about this, but when the branch completed the end of day cash 
reconciliation there was no money unaccounted for either as debit or credit. As such, Lloyds 
felt that theyd credited the correct amount of money to the account, and they didnt uphold 
the complaint.
H and Mr H werent satisfied with Lloyds response, so they referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that Lloyds had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it had handled the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint.
H and Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that H and Mr H believe in good faith that they deposited £10,400 in cash in 
Lloyds branch, and that therefore the amount that was credited to the account was £200 less 
than should have been the case.
Of course, I wasnt present in branch when the deposit was made, but I hope that H and Mr 
H can understand that in the absence of a deposit receipt  which H and Mr H were offered 
by the Lloyds counter staff at the time of the deposit, but which they declined  its difficult for 
me not to conclude, on balance, and in consideration of all the information available to me, 
that its more likely than not that Lloyds have credited the correct amount to the account in 
this instance.
One reason I say this is because, if H and Mr H had given the teller £10,400, and that teller 
had miscounted the money and only inputted £10,200 into Lloyds system as the received 
amount, when the branch completed its end of day cash reconciliation there would have 
been £200 credit unaccounted for. But when Lloyds branch did complete its end of day cash 
reconciliation, every penny was accounted for, and there wasnt any money outstanding.
This strongly suggests to me that, while H and Mr H may have believed they were depositing 
£10,400, they only presented £10,200 to Lloyds teller, which was then correctly allocated to 
the intended account.
Ultimately, in consideration of the processes that Lloyds branches have in place to ensure 
that cash deposits received are correctly counted and allocated  including the counting of 
the physical money by the teller as well as the end of day cash reconciliation conducted by 
each branch as previously described  I feel that its highly unlikely that Lloyds would have 
miscounted the cash amount presented to them by H and Mr H as they believe here. 
Im aware that H and Mr H believe that CCTV footage of the deposit should be available that 
would corroborate their position. But such footage is usually only retained for a short period 
of time and generally doesnt provide a detailed enough image to allow the kind of 
corroboration that H and Mr H believe it may. Its also notable that Lloyds didnt provide 
CCTV footage to this service following our request for all information and evidence relevant 
to this complaint, and I can confirm that Im personally unaware of any instances where 
CCTV footage has been supplied by Lloyds or any other financial institution in similar 
circumstances to those surrounding this complaint  for the reasons already given.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Lloyds have 
credited an incorrect amount to the bank account in question as H and Mr H believe is the 
case here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Lloyds to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that H or Mr H were wanting, but I hope they will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman