DRN-3381010
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) treated it unfairly by refusing to reimburse two chargebacks claims that theyd 
processed even though S had already refunded the payments to the customers. 
In bringing this complaint, S is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr C. 
  
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, however: 
In July 2013, S entered into an agreement with Barclays whereby Barclays undertook 
to provide merchant acquiring services to S. 
In August and September 2020 Barclays received two chargeback requests in 
connection with two payments that had been made to S of £929.52 and £3,042.91.
  
Barclays have told us that because they can only send chargeback notices by post, 
on 28 August and 3 September 2020, they wrote to Mr C to tell him about the 
chargebacks. The bank says the letters asked Mr C to respond within 14 days with 
evidence if S wanted the bank to challenge them. 
Having received no response to their letters within the timeframe stipulated, Barclays 
refunded the chargebacks to the customers and debited both transactions from Ss 
account. 
According to Mr C, in the meantime, and suspecting the transactions were fraudulent, 
at the beginning and towards the end of September 2020 S refunded both payments 
to its customer. That, however, meant Ss customer received two refunds which 
resulted in S being out of pocket by the duplicated amount. 
Mr C said he hadnt received Barclays 3 September 2020 letter regarding the larger 
chargeback amount until 7 October 2020 and that the second letter dated 28 August 
regarding the smaller transaction never arrived.  
But soon after receiving the 3 September 2020 letter Mr C contacted Barclays to 
challenge the chargeback and asked Barclays not to process it in light of the action S 
had already taken. Barclays told Mr C to wait until Ss September 2020 statement 
arrived at which point matters could be discussed further. Mr C later realised 
Barclays had already processed the chargebacks and so formally complained to the 
bank.
S said Barclays systems should have identified that S had already refunded the two 
payments to its customers and on that basis declined to process the chargebacks. S 
therefore believed Barclays were responsible for its loss and should compensate it by 
reimbursing the chargebacks theyd processed. 
Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said under Visa and 
Mastercard rules, once a chargeback request is received, they have a limited time to 
provide a defence and they cannot change those timescales. Barclays said that 
because Ss reply to their letters was received after the timeframe had expired, the 
bank couldnt defend the chargebacks. 
Mr C remained unhappy about Barclays position and so, he referred Ss complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays were at fault for processing the two chargebacks. 
Although she acknowledged Ss case that one of Barclays letters arrived after the deadline it 
had been given and the other not at all, nonetheless she was persuaded that Barclays sent 
both letters to Ss correct address. Furthermore, she noted the following provision in 
Barclays merchant terms and conditions which said: 
If any notice is sent by first-class post it will be treated as being received at noon 2 days
after it was posted (3 days in the case of second-class post). In the case of notices, we send
to you, this applies even if it is not delivered or if it is returned undelivered.
Based on the condition, the investigator concluded that since Barclays had sent both letters 
appropriately and had no reason to doubt theyd been delivered and on time, when the bank 
didnt receive Ss response before the deadline it had been given, Barclays correctly 
processed the two chargebacks. 
However, the investigator concluded Barclays provided poor service to S. She observed that 
when in October 2020 Mr C first contacted the bank about Ss concerns regarding the 
chargebacks, Barclays didnt tell him the chargebacks could no longer be challenged since 
the timeframe for doing so had passed. So, the investigator recommended Barclays pay S 
£150 in compensation. 
S did not accept the investigators conclusion. On its behalf Mr C once again maintained that 
Barclays systems should have identified that S had already refunded the two transactions to 
its customer. He didnt believe therefore, that the banks decision to process the 
chargebacks was justified. He also said that whereas Barclays may not be obliged to help S 
to pursue a claim against the cardholders bank, nonetheless as their clients there is nothing 
to prevent the bank from doing so and therefore it should. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
By way of context I should explain that chargeback is the process by which some disputes 
are resolved between card issuers and merchants under the relevant card Scheme rules (in this case, Mastercard). Barclays dont operate the Scheme or decide if a chargeback is 
successful  it can only decide whether or not to defend it. 
Its worth pointing out also that I can only consider Ss dispute with Barclays, and not Ss 
customer to whom it gave the refunds. Furthermore, in connection with Ss dispute with the 
bank, I can only look at whether Barclays treated S fairly and reasonably in line with the 
Scheme rules.
When a chargeback request is made, the merchant has a limited period in which to submit
their response to the card scheme. Therefore, it is important that they are informed as
quickly as possible about the chargeback, and information supporting a challenge is quickly 
passed on to the card scheme.
On receiving the chargeback requests, Im satisfied that Barclays did as reasonably they 
were expected to do which was to notifying S about them and to ask if it wished to challenge 
the chargebacks. I am not persuaded that Barclays did anything wrong in how they made S 
aware of the chargebacks.
Ive thought about Ss case the first letter of 28 August never arrived and the second dated 3 
September took over a month. 
Its difficult to explain what happened even allowing for the fact the letters were sent to Ss 
address in Europe. But it is worth noting that on occasions the postal service fails to operate 
as it should. Thats demonstrated by the time it took the 3 September 2020 letter to arrive. 
And although Mr C has told us the 28 August letter did not arrive at all, knowing the 
importance of timescales and the fact the bank did send the 3 September letter which did 
arrive, I dont have any reason to doubt that it would also have sent the 28 August letter. 
Unfortunately, the postal service issues meant S missed the deadline for its response. But I 
dont think I could reasonably hold Barclays responsible for that and, unfortunate though that 
is, Ss failure to provide the evidence the bank had asked for in order to defend the 
chargebacks. 
I note Mr Cs case that the banks system should have picked up the payments hed made 
and, on that basis, defended the chargebacks. But Barclays had written to S for evidence in 
order to challenge them. Not having received confirmation S wished to challenge the 
chargeback accompanied by its evidence to enable the bank to do so, I do not think I can 
reasonably conclude it was at fault for not taking that action. 
S signed the merchant services agreement with Barclays which means the bank can take 
money from S for any payments that it made under the Scheme. As this is in line with the 
Scheme rules, I cant reasonably say Barclays has done anything wrong.
I recognise and understand Mr Cs strength of feeling that Ss customer has received the 
chargebacks they werent entitled to in view of the refunds it made separately to them. 
However, that would be relevant to a dispute between S and its customer. Im afraid its not 
relevant to Ss dispute with Barclays and I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays at fault 
for not wishing to become involved.
That being said like the investigator, and for the reasons she gave, I too am persuaded 
Barclays provided poor customer service to S. No doubt had the bank told Mr C in October 
when he first contacted it, that the chargebacks could not be challenged hed have been 
aware of the position straight away. I think there was some inconvenience as a consequence 
as S had then to engage further with Barclays to establish firmly that there was no further 
recourse available through the bank to recover the duplicated payment.  
Putting things right
 Having considered the circumstances of this case, and for the reasons given by the 
investigator Im satisfied that a payment of £150 to S is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement Barclays 
Bank Plc should pay £150 to S in full and final settlement of the complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman