DRN-3910533
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not refund 
losses they incurred when Mr R fell victim to a scam. 
Where Mr R is the complainant to which most of this case concerns, Ive mainly referred to 
him for the purpose of this decision. 
What happened
In summary, Mr R was induced into what he thought was an investment opportunity by an 
individual he met online. He believed he was trading in digital assets such as cryptocurrency 
and made five debit card payments, amounting to £6,510, with the hope of making a profit. 
The payments were sent to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platforms, that converted the 
money to crypto. The funds were then sent onwards by Mr R. He believed he was sending 
money from these platforms to a trading application endorsed by the individual. But in truth, 
the crypto was actually sent to fraudsters and no investments/trades were ever made.  
Mr R complained to NatWest that it ought to have identified something untoward was 
happening with these payments. He claimed that it should have taken steps to protect the 
account by warning him of the risk of fraud and/or managed to reclaim the money. 
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint and said it wouldnt refund Mr R. When the case was 
referred to our service, one of our investigators concluded that NatWest shouldnt be held 
liable for the loss the complainants have suffered. 
Because the complainants do not agree, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr R authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms using his NatWest debit card. The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by consumers in order for legitimate payments to 
be made as instructed.
Still, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to 
protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as reasonably possible. If, in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a 
professional banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred 
by its consumer as a result. 
I appreciate that, overall, the complainants have lost over £6,500  which is a significant 
amount of money. But this sum wasnt paid in one single large or distinctly out of character 
transaction. It was spread over five separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, 
would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with the 
accounts spending history. 
Given the recent, undisputed outgoings that had taken place, I cannot safely conclude there 
was a sudden increase in spending such that the transactions ought to have been regarded 
as overly suspicious by NatWest. For example, in the recent months leading up to the scam 
the account was debited with £1,050 in March 2021, and a further £1,800 the following 
month. These amounted to comparable expenditure. Indeed, the latter payment is just short 
of the largest transaction in contention here  meaning the payments as part of the scam did 
not mark a clear deviation for how the account had been run previously. 
Whats more, these payments were made over the course of multiple days and followed a 
series of credits that increased the available balance. Its not uncommon for a current 
account to render payments having been credited with the means to pay out. Undoubtedly, 
this is a key feature of such an account; money is paid in to permit payments for all kinds of 
purchases that draw money out. 
I understand that Mr R took out lending to facilitate some of the so-called investments. Its 
been argued that this influx of money, together with a series of card payments out, should 
have been disconcerting for NatWest. But to make this finding, I would need to be satisfied 
that this represented particularly uncharacteristic account behaviour. 
I do not interpret the account movements in this way. Its true money was somewhat 
accruing in the account. Nevertheless, this is typical when an account holder might have 
plans for a purchase, or a number of expected debits. Moreover, the destination of the 
payments would not necessarily be alarming in itself  as I understand it, its not in question 
that genuine and well-known exchange platforms were being paid.
So, having considered the payments Mr R made, Im not persuaded there were sufficient 
grounds that ought reasonably to have triggered NatWests fraud monitoring systems. Or, 
that would have indicated Mr or Mrs R was in the process of being scammed to the extent 
that I would expect the bank to have intervened before the payments were let go. 
Ive also thought about whether NatWest should have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr R reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme run by card providers such as Visa and Mastercard. That process is subject to the 
rules of the scheme and we wouldnt expect a bank to pursue matters if there were no real 
prospects of success.
Mr R used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a successful 
chargeback claim in these circumstances, because the service would be considered 
provided (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). 
Therefore, I do not think NatWest has acted unreasonably in respect of the pursuit of a 
chargeback claim. All in all, while I appreciate Mr R was the victim of a cruel scam, I do not 
conclude that the bank should be required to refund the loss here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman