DRN-4176908
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to action his Subject Access Request 
(SAR) within the correct timescale. He also complains about how they handled his 
complaint, and that they closed his account without giving him any notice. 
What happened
On 26 July 2018, Mr O submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR) to Barclays after they 
declined his application for a mortgage. Mr O says that Barclays sent him only one 
document within 30 days and failed to send him everything containing his personal data. He 
says it wasnt until around five months later that Barclays provided the information he had 
asked for. 
Mr O raised a complaint in August 2018 but said it was ignored for over two months despite 
him calling and emailing different departments at Barclays multiple times. He raised the 
matter with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) in October and continued to chase 
Barclays for a response. The ICO upheld Mr Os complaint, and gave Barclays until 3 
December to provide the information, however they failed to do this. 
In December 2018, Barclays explained that they couldnt find anything mortgage related with 
the address Mr O had provided. Mr O also said he was told that the reason his emails hadnt 
been acknowledged was because the inbox hadnt been monitored, however he said 
Barclays then denied this was the case. 
Later in December Barclays sent Mr O some more information, however he says it was still 
incomplete as he couldnt see any data relating to his mortgage applications. He also noticed 
that Barclays had closed his Premier Account without telling him. 
Barclays sent further information in January 2019, however Mr O wasnt able to access the 
documents online. Because of this, they were sent in the mail. Barclays also offered Mr O 
£550 as compensation in response to his complaint. 
Regarding the account closure, Barclays explained they had sent Mr O a letter in August 
2018 which said that due to inactivity, the account would be closed unless he paid into it 
before mid-November. Mr O said he didnt receive this letter and asked Barclays to open a 
new account for him. He also asked that no credit search be carried out as that would cause 
him detriment while he was applying for mortgages in place of the ones Barclays declined. 
But Barclays responded and said that a credit search would need to be carried out in order 
for Mr O to open any new account. 
Mr O explained he had never received the letter, however Barclays said it had been sent and 
that it also would have been available through his online banking portal. 
Following this, Mr O had to chase Barclays for their final response to his complaint, which he 
received on 22 May 2019  around nine months after the complaint was raised. He says the 
response didnt contain the missing information he had asked for and didnt address items 
he had been raising with Barclays since 2018. He also didnt agree with the amount of 
compensation offered. 
Barclays explained that as part of Mr Os first SAR, he had only asked for information about 
his current account, which is what they sent within the correct timeframe. They said a 
second request was made on 31 October, and this information was sent two days over the 
30-day timeframe. Following this, they realised Mr O had multiple personal records on their 
system which meant he only received information for one of the records, resulting in a delay. 
They found the rest of the information and sent this by recorded delivery on 14 January 
2019. 
In relation to the emails that went unanswered, Barclays explained that while the mailbox is 
monitored daily, the emails are passed on and arent acknowledged for security and data 
protection purposes. They also explained that specific mailbox wasnt the correct channel to 
use to log a complaint and that the correct form to use was shown on their website. Overall, 
they apologised for the delays and service provided, and said they felt the offer of £550 was 
fair. 
Mr O disagreed. He said he had to spend over 10 months and around 53 hours chasing 
Barclays in order to get things resolved and that an investigation into their systems and 
processes should be carried out. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and explained that while he agreed Barclays had 
made some failings, he felt the amount of compensation offered was fair. 
Mr O disagreed. He explained that he had ticked the box marked Barclays Banking 
(including Barclays Premier and mortgage accounts). For this reason, he said Barclays 
should have sent all of the information he had requested from the date of his first request, 
meaning it took six months to receive anything meaningful, and a total of 17 months to 
receive everything. He also explained the investigation into Barclays closing his account 
without providing notice remained outstanding. 
Because Mr O disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for 
review. 
After reviewing Mr Os case again, we decided that we needed some more information from 
Barclays. We asked them for a copy of the letter they sent Mr O in August 2018 regarding 
the closure of his account, we asked for some more information about what Mr O asked for 
as part of his SAR, and we also wanted to know more about the process followed when 
emails are sent to their DPO mailbox.
Barclays provided a copy of the letter sent to Mr O in August 2018 which showed his correct 
address. They also explained the letter would have been available through Mr Os online 
portal. While Mr O said he didnt receive the letter, as Barclays were able to provide a copy 
which is dated with the correct address, we told Mr O that its most likely it was sent, but may 
have been lost in the post -  something we cant hold Barclays liable for.
In relation to the form Mr O completed when he first requested a SAR, Barclays explained 
that there would have been a separate tick box for mortgage information alone on the form 
(so that customers get any mortgage related information they hold). However, they said     
Mr O had ticked for information which would only cover all the information held within their 
records. As Mr O didnt have an active mortgage account with them, ticking this box wouldnt have pulled any information on the applications, as it only would have given information on 
mortgage accounts that were in place.
We also asked what happens to the emails that are sent to the DPO mailbox. Barclays 
explained they are sent on to relevant departments, but that those in the DPO area dont 
have access to the relevant systems meaning they wouldnt ever be able to log a complaint. 
They said that the different ways to raise a complaint are explained on the website and Mr O 
should have used one of those channels. 
Even though this was the case, we said that we could understand why Mr O would log his 
complaint with the DPO team, because that was the area he was unhappy with. Even though 
they may not have access to the relevant systems, we still felt they could have sent the 
emails to someone who did.
After reviewing all of the additional information received, we asked Barclays to pay a further 
£100 to Mr O for the delays caused in raising his complaint. 
Barclays agreed to pay the £100, in addition to the £550 already offered. Mr O responded 
and said he didnt accept the offer. He said the value of his time in relation to what had 
happened was closer to £10,000. He said he would provide further information, however we 
didnt hear back from him by the deadlines given. 
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me so that I can give a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Rather, Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the overall outcome reached and believe the 
compensation offered is fair. I will explain why.
 
Considering everything, I fully accept that Barclays made multiple errors here. What I need 
to decide is whether they have done enough to put things right and compensate Mr O for 
what went wrong. And I think they have. 
In relation to the SAR request, Barclays have explained why they werent able to provide 
information relating to the mortgage applications in the first instance. They explained they 
have a separate tick box for mortgages alone on the form (so that customers get all 
mortgage related information they hold). However, Mr O had ticked basic information about 
himself which would cover all the information held in our records based on the product. As 
Mr O hadnt held a Mortgage with Barclays, they wouldnt have information to provide him.Barclays were directed to send Mr O more information by the DPO, and they did take too 
long to send this. For that delay they have awarded compensation. 
When looking into the delays Mr O experienced when trying to raise a complaint, I agree that 
even though his requests may have been sent to the incorrect mailbox, they could have 
been passed to the relevant department, or someone could have replied to tell Mr O where 
to direct his complaint. I can understand why Mr O was contacting that mailbox, as that was 
the department he had been speaking with all along. Again, because of this, Barclays 
agreed to pay further compensation. 
Regarding the account closure, while Mr O says he never received the letter sent on 16 
August 2018, Barclays have provided sufficient evidence to show that it was sent to the 
correct address. While Im not at all saying that Mr O is being untruthful, it may have been 
the case that the letter was lost in the post. But that isnt something I can hold Barclays 
responsible for. Barclays explained the letter would have also been available through Mr Os 
online banking platform. 
So overall, I agree that errors were made and that Mr O spent a lot of time trying to sort 
things out. I appreciate he was inconvenienced and had to do a lot of work to get things 
resolved. But I do feel the total compensation of £650 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I know Mr O was hoping for a much larger amount, however at this service our 
compensation awards are rather modest compared to something a court might recommend 
for example. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.  
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr O a total of £650 in compensation for errors made 
and delays caused. As far as I am aware, nothing has been paid yet. However if the initial 
offer of £550 has been paid, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr O a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman