DRN-3886363
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr S was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI. There was no deposit and the agreement was for £30,683.40 over 60 months; with 58 
monthly repayments of £495.43, a single payment of £495.24, and a final payment of 
£8,200.27 if Mr S wanted to keep the car. 
In October 2020, when the car had done 5,399 miles, it had to go back to the supplying 
dealership because of a problem with the diesel particulate filter (DPF). The dealership 
regenerated the DPF, however Mr S took the car back to the dealership in December 2020 
due to a warning light illuminating. At this point the car had done 7,426 miles, and the 
dealership again caried out a repair.
The car was back with the dealership in January 2021, after doing a total of 8,734 miles, 
because of another warning light being illuminated. And another repair was carried out. In 
December 2021, at 17,815 miles, another repair was carried out with the exhaust gas 
sensors being replaced, the DPF regenerated, and the oil and filter changed. The DPF was 
regenerated again in March 2022, at 20,344 miles; and in April 2022, at 20,636 miles, along 
with another oil and filter change. In May 2022, the dealership completed another oil filter 
change, when the car went in for a scheduled service.
Mr S complained to RCI about the faults with the car. They said the dealership had carried 
out all of the repairs under warranty and offered him £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed suffered. Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
While the complaint was with us for investigation, RCI agreed that Mr S was able to reject 
the car. However, because they thought Mr S mayve used the car off-road, they said that 
they may charge him for any damage outside of normal wear and tear. However, Mr S said 
he would prefer a permanent fix, or some assurance that any ongoing repairs would be 
covered by the dealership after the warranty had ended.
Our investigator said there was a fault with the DPF. And, given that Mr S used the car for a 
series of shorter and longer journeys, the DPF should have been able to regenerate itself as 
designed. But, because it failed to do so, on multiple occasions, the investigator thought the 
car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied. They also said that the car was designed 
to be used off road, and they didnt think that the fact Mr S had occasionally used it as 
designed would make any difference to the functioning of the DPF. So, as the dealership 
had attempted to repair the car on multiple occasions, all unsuccessful, the investigator 
thought Mr S should now be allowed to reject the car.
The investigator said that, because Mr S had had use of the car, it was reasonable he paid 
for this usage. And they didnt think RCI needed to refund any of the payments hed made. 
However, the investigator recognised the impact and inconvenience Mr S suffered as a 
result of the car needing to go back for repair on multiple occasions. So, they recommended 
RCI pay him £200 compensation for this.
Although Mr S agreed the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality, he didnt agree with the 
investigators recommendations. And he thought these were unfair and disadvantaged him. 
He explained that hed already paid over £16,000 to RCI, which left about £20,000 still to pay 
under the agreement. And he thought the car was worth around £25,000. So, he thought 
hed be better off selling the car and paying off the finance.
Mr S has also said that, by allowing him to reject the car, this essentially means hes been 
leasing the car, rather than renting it with a view to buying it if he chose to make the final 
optional payment. And, if he had leased the car, it wouldve cost him less than the monthly 
payments hes been making. Because of this, Mr S said that he wouldnt be returning the car 
to RCI and I will continue to pay the agreement as I have done.
Because Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, RCI are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless RCI can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr S to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask RCI to put this right.
Its not disputed that Mr S had problems with the car, or that these problems made the car of 
an unsatisfactory quality. Given this, my decision will focus on what I think is a fair and 
reasonable remedy. However, when considering the remedy, I also need to take into 
consideration what the CRA allows.Where goods are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows one chance at repair. And, if 
this repair is unsuccessful, then it allows for rejection of the goods. From what Ive seen, the 
dealership has made multiple attempts to repair the car, and these have failed. And, Mr S 
has confirmed that the fault with the car has recently reoccurred. So, I think its reasonable 
for me to conclude that the dealership cant enact a repair that fixes the fault with the car. 
Given this and given the range of outcomes available under the CRA, I agree with the 
investigator that Mr S now has the right to reject the car.
Whats more, when bringing his complaint to us, Mr S has said that hes prepared to keep 
the car if the dealership / RCI agree to continue to fix the fault when it occurs, free of charge. 
But its clear from the evidence that the fault cant be fixed. As such, I dont think that this 
resolution is fair and reasonable to all parties. And I think that rejection is the most suitable 
remedy under the CRA.
Mr S has explained why he doesnt think rejection is a suitable option for him. And I 
appreciate his frustration and that he thinks hes being unfairly disadvantaged if he rejects 
the car.
Ive seen that the total payable under the agreement is £37,430.45. Mr S made the first 
payment in April 2020. As such, assuming all payments have been made to date (and Ive 
seen nothing to show me they havent) then Mr S has paid £17,835.48. Which would leave 
£19,594.97 remaining. And, Mr S believes the car is currently worth £25,000. So, he says he 
has slightly more than £5,000 equity in the car. And he thinks RCI should compensate him 
for this equity if he rejects the car. Otherwise he says they will benefit from this equity. Which 
he thinks is unfair.
While I understand Mr Ss argument, and his comments about what wouldve happened if 
hed leased a car instead, I dont think that RCI should pay Mr S £5,000. I say this because I 
havent seen anything to show me that the car could be sold for £25,000, or that this 
valuation takes into consideration that the car has a fault that cant be rectified.
In practice, RCI will send the car for auction. And, given the fault, it could sell for significantly 
less than the amount outstanding on the agreement. And, under Mr Ss argument as to the 
ownership of the equity (and by extension the shortfall), RCI could ask him to pay any 
shortfall. Which I accept that Mr S would also find unfair.
When allowing rejection, the CRA is silent on equity. And, given the potential scenario 
above, I think this is reasonable  its unfair that a customer, after being provided with goods 
that arent of a satisfactory quality, should potentially face a bill after being allowed to reject 
those goods. And the risk of absorbing any shortfall should lie with the financial business / 
supplier. And, if theres no shortfall, and theres equity instead, so be it  this is the 
counterweight to the risk the CRA puts on them. As such, I wont be asking RCI to pay Mr S 
for any potential equity upon rejection of the car. But this doesnt mean that Mr S cant 
choose to repay the amount owing under the agreement, sell the car himself, and keep any 
potential equity there may be in the car.
But this doesnt mean that Mr S hasnt been inconvenienced by whats happened. Hes had 
the car for three years and has needed to take it to the dealership on six occasions for the 
fault with the DPF to be fixed. And this wouldve been both frustrating and inconvenient for 
him. The investigator has recommended that RCI pay him £200 compensation for this, which 
is in line with what we would normally recommend. And I havent seen any compelling 
reasons why this amount should be amended. As such, I will adopt this compensation as 
part of my final decision.Mr S has also said that hes recently spent around £3,500 in servicing the car and replacing 
the tyres. Under the terms of the agreement, this is Mr Ss responsibility. And he accepts 
that the tyres needed replacing due to in-use wear and tear, and not because of any fault or 
issue with them when supplied. I accept that Mr S may not have needed to go to this 
expense had RCI allowed him to reject the car in May 2022 (when they responded to his 
complaint). However, the investigator recommended rejection in November 2022, and Mr S 
didnt want this for the reasons given. So, Im satisfied that, had RCI offered rejection in May 
2022, Mr S wouldve likely refused this for the same reasons. As such, as Mr S chose to 
continue to keep and use the car, I think hes responsible for the costs associated with this. 
And I wont be asking RCI to refund the costs of either the servicing or the tyres.
Putting things right
Given the above, RCI should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Ss credit file; and
pay Mr S an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and RCI Financial Services Limited 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman