DRN-4220309
The complaint
A limited company A complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to prevent 
the loss they suffered when they sent money to a Wise customer as the result of a scam.
A has used a representative to bring their complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly just 
refer to A throughout my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In November 2022 A was sadly the victim of 
an email interception scam. A believed they were speaking to a potential supplier of some 
technical equipment for their business. But a scammer had inserted himself into the email 
chain. So when A sent a payment of around £39,000 intended for the genuine supplier, it 
instead went to an account with Wise, controlled by the scammer. 
A complained to Wise that they had let a scammer open and operate an account and hadnt 
done enough to prevent their loss. Wise didnt uphold the complaint and it was later 
considered by one of our Investigators. She supported Wises position and didnt 
recommend that they needed to do more. A still disagree and have asked for an 
Ombudsman to make a decision. 
Whilst the complaint was awaiting allocation to an Ombudsman, I understand that Wise said 
theyd managed to recover around £800 and that this has since been paid to A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see A feels strongly that Wise should refund their loss and feels its unfair that they are 
unwilling to do so. But I want to be clear that unwittingly falling victim to a scam doesnt 
entitle the victim (here A) to a refund from the payment service provider (PSP, here Wise) 
that received their money. In these circumstances I could only direct Wise to reimburse A if 
Im satisfied they did something wrong where it would be fair and reasonable to ask them to 
provide a refund. 
When considering complaints of this nature, I can understand why, with the benefit of 
hindsight, its sometimes easy to say the recipient PSP ought to have identified the activity 
on the account as fraud and shouldve done more to prevent the loss, or they couldve done 
more to assist in the recovery of the funds upon receipt of notification of fraud. However, I 
must be clear, when deciding this complaint, I need to think about what Wise knew at the 
time  not what is known today. And where it is supposed (as is the case here) that Wise 
didnt do enough. My role is to look into the individual circumstances of the case and decide 
(within my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), based on what I have seen, whether they 
should have fairly and reasonably done more.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied Wise carried out appropriate checks to verify the 
identity of the recipient accountholder (in line with their regulatory obligations) when opening 
the account. So, it follows that I dont think there is any reason, based on the opening of the 
account, to direct Wise to do more here.
  
Ive reviewed the account statements both prior to and after As payment arrived in the Wise 
account. And I have also considered whether there was anything, prior to As notification that 
ought to have alerted Wise to the possibility of fraud. Im satisfied there wasnt and that none 
of the account activity ought to have stood out to Wise as so unusual or suspicious such that 
they ought to have interfered in the operation of the account. I dont think there have been 
any failings by Wise regarding the monitoring of the recipient account, so I cant say they 
missed an opportunity to prevent As loss in this way either.
Ive considered As point that their payment was for a significant amount and that they think 
this means Wise should have done more. But the value of a payment is just one factor that I 
need to consider. I also have to take into account the type of account that received the 
payment along with its expected and intended use. And it is in that context that I dont think 
the arrival and subsequent spending of As funds was so unexpected or suspicious that Wise 
should have intervened.
Unfortunately, however, by the time Wise were informed that As payment had been made 
as a result of a scam, all the funds had already left the recipient account. So, I dont think 
there were any failings that prevented recovery of more of As money. Wise went beyond 
what was strictly required of them and managed to recover a partial amount as mentioned 
above  I think this is fair and cant hold Wise responsible for the recovery not being a 
greater amount. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear A lost so much money to a scam. But as I dont think (within the 
scope of my jurisdiction) that Wise did anything that caused the loss or hindered more funds 
being recovered, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman