DRN-1742715
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a laptop she bought using her credit card from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) is faulty and she wants a full refund.
 
What happened
Mrs C bought a laptop costing £899.99 in October 2018 and used her Barclays credit card to 
pay for it. After a few months Mrs C explains that she realised the laptop was not working 
properly and she tried to return it to the shop for a full refund. The shop refused to refund 
Mrs C and so in October 2019 Mrs C complained to Barclays.
Barclays asked Mrs C to obtain an independent report on the faults with the laptop. Mrs C 
sent his to Barclays in November 2019. The report set out that the microphone was not 
working and there was a possible software fault with Microsoft Word. Barclays agreed to pay 
for the repairs to the laptop. Barclays also paid Mrs C £100 for the delays and mistakes it 
made in dealing with her complaint. Mrs C wasnt happy with this as she wants a full refund, 
so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs complaint and didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong. Our investigator said that under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act Barclays 
was entitled to offer to repair the laptop and it didnt have to give Mrs C a full refund. Mrs C 
didnt agree and replied to say in summary that any repair would invalidate the 
manufacturers 
guarantee and may not fix all the problems with the laptop. She said that she had been 
misled about the quality of the laptop and she should have a full refund.
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 sets out that a provider of credit can also be 
held responsible, as well as the trader if goods or services arent of satisfactory quality. So, 
Barclays, as the provider of the credit for the laptop, also has responsibility for the quality of 
the laptop.
I dont apply the law in the same way that a court would when considering s75 although I 
take it into account. I have considered what would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances.
There is no dispute that the laptop has faults and they are set out in the independent report. 
So, I agree that the laptop isnt of satisfactory quality. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
the provider is allowed one opportunity to repair or replace the goods. If the repair is 
unsuccessful or a replacement isnt possible then Mrs C should be entitled to her money 
back.
Mrs C has said the laptop was misrepresented to her because it was sold as a working 
laptop. I dont agree that it was misrepresented just because it doesnt work as expected 
because of a fault. If the fault is repaired, then Mrs C will have got what she was expecting. 
Barclays has offered to pay for the repair but because Mrs C hasnt given it a chance to put 
things right by way of the repair it isnt upholding her complaint for a refund. I agree with the 
investigator that Barclays wasnt wrong to offer to pay for a repair and not a full refund.
I understand what Mrs C is saying about a repair requiring breaking the seal and invalidating 
the warranty. However, the retailer wouldnt honour the warranty when Mrs C took the laptop 
back within the warranty period.  If the laptop develops further faults or the repair isnt 
successful, then she can return to Barclays for the cost of a replacement or a refund.  
I have no reason to think that a repair wouldnt solve the issues with the laptop given the 
independent report. In these circumstances I think it would be reasonable for a relatively 
inexpensive repair to be attempted rather than asking Barclays to provide a full refund. So, in 
these circumstances I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by offering to pay for the 
repairs. 
Barclays has recognised that it didnt handle Mrs Cs complaint properly and refunded her 
£100 for this. Barclays also increased its offer to pay for the repairs to the microphone and 
so I will leave it to Mrs C to decide whether she wants to accept this. I think that this is fair 
and reasonable and so I cant ask Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman