DRN-1565808
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited wont include cancer as 
part of his calculations for his enhanced annuity review.
Background
Mr Ds annuities were initially set up in January 2010. However, later the industry regulator 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had concerns about the information customers had 
received in non-advised sales of annuities. The particular relevant concerns here centred 
around whether customers were adequately informed about the ability to take out annuities 
enhanced for medical or lifestyle conditions.
The FCA asked firms to carry out a review of non-advised annuity sales. The FCA set out 
the criteria for how this should be carried out and the calculation process.
Prudential asked Mr D to provide information regarding his medical and lifestyle conditions 
applicable in January 2010. Mr D informed Prudential that he had been diagnosed with 
BRCA 1 gene in February 2006 as well as other conditions such as diabetes. Mr D also told 
Prudential that he had later been diagnosed with prostate cancer in early 2013.
Prudential carried out its review calculations and sent Mr D an offer of compensation. For 
each annuity, cancer had not been included and this was shown on the documentation.
Mr D complained that BRCA 1 shouldve been taken into account as research shows it can 
lead to cancer, as it subsequently did for Mr D in 2013.
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it could only consider conditions hed been 
diagnosed with when he took out the annuity in January 2010. And as his cancer was 
diagnosed after this, it wouldnt be included in its calculations. It said its underwriters were 
well aware of what Mr D had told it about the BRCA 1 gene. But it said it had followed the 
FCA guidelines for the annuity review and for assessing medical and lifestyle conditions.
Mr D remained unhappy and his case was considered by one of our investigators. The 
investigator concluded that the case shouldnt be upheld. She explained that as Mr D didnt 
have cancer at the time the annuities were set up it wouldnt be considered as part of his 
annuity calculation. Mr D responded to say he still disagreed. He said that its a proven 
medical fact that those that carry the BRCA 1 gene have a greater likelihood of being 
diagnosed with certain cancers. And its irrelevant that he didnt have cancer when he took 
the annuities out in 2010 as the likelihood of developing cancer is higher than the general 
population and therefore his life expectancy is reduced.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The matter for me to decide here is whether the BRCA1 gene should have been taken into 
account in Prudentials review of Mr Ds circumstances in 2010 when he took out his 
annuities.
Mr D has explained and sent information regarding the BRCA1 gene, which shows that 
carriers are more likely to be diagnosed with cancer than non-carriers of this gene. However, 
this is not in dispute, I think all parties accept this. 
Mr D says this has reduced his life-expectancy and therefore should be reflected in the rate 
given to him by Prudential for his annuities. 
To carry out its calculations for the review, Prudential was given criteria and a calculation 
model for conditions that qualify for an enhanced rate and the rate that should be applied for 
those. And it was given instructions on how to carry out these reviews. 
Mr D has asked to see a copy of the regulators criteria for qualifying medical conditions but 
Prudential has said it cannot give this to him. I appreciate why Mr D would want to see this 
but this isnt something that the FCA shares. This is because the review model is strictly 
confidential, the regulator created the model to work as an aggregate across the firms in the 
market at the time. This takes into account the qualifying medical conditions and the rates 
applied across the firms in the market. So the model will include sensitive commercial data 
about other firms. To carry out the review business such as Prudential received instructions 
on how to carry out the review but it wont have had access to the decision making process 
about the medical conditions offered by other firms and how the FCA has decided upon 
which conditions qualify.
So Prudential have to adhere to the terms of the review, its not for them to decide which 
conditions should receive an enhanced annuity rate. Prudential has confirmed that its 
underwriters have considered Mr Ds evidence regarding the BRCA1 gene when carrying out 
the review. But the presence of the BRCA1 gene does not qualify as a form of cancer 
diagnosis in terms of an enhanced annuity. And on its own, its not a condition that qualifies 
for an enhanced annuity.
Prudential has also told us that under its own underwriting terms at no time has the presence 
of the BRCA1 gene ever qualified for an enhanced annuity. Whilst this isnt directly relevant 
here, it does suggest that across the market the BRCA1 gene wouldnt qualify as a condition 
that provides an enhanced annuity.
Whilst I understand the arguments that Mr D has made and the evidence hes provided 
about the BRCA1 gene  it does not qualify him for an enhanced annuity under the review. 
And that is all Prudential were required to do, carry out the review as prescribed by the 
regulator.
So I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong here. Im not sure it will be of much 
comfort to Mr D but it does seem that its an industry wide position that the BRCA1 gene 
doesnt qualify for an enhanced annuity. And therefore, whether or not Prudential had made 
him aware of his options sufficiently in 2010, I think its unlikely hed have found an annuity 
provider who wouldve offered him an enhanced annuity on this basis.
My decision 
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman