DRN-3644941
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance rejected 
his request to be allowed to reject a faulty garden building.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background in some detail in her view letters and for the 
purposes of this decision I will give a brief summary. I want to assure Mr G, if I dont address 
every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on 
what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
In July 2020 Mr G bought a summerhouse from a company I will call S at a cost of £1,684 
funded by a fixed sum loan agreement. It was delivered and Mr G erected it with help from a 
family member.
The summerhouse began to leak and Mr G complained to S and then to Hitachi. He supplied 
photos and a video to both. S said the summerhouse had been placed too close to a 
perimeter fence and had other alterations which meant it had not been constructed properly. 
It suggested adding guttering.
Hitachi contacted S which sent one of its contractors who had delivered the shed to inspect 
it. His report said the building was well constructed but there were issues with the roof which 
were due to construction. It added that the internal boarding and electrics had contributed to 
the problem.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that Hitachi had taken reasonable 
steps to investigate the claim and the conclusion it reached was a fair one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The chain is intact and so I have to consider if there was either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
The difficulty Mr G has is that since the installation was carried out by him it is difficult to say 
that the goods as delivered were the cause of the faults. It is difficult to say whether the 
summerhouse supplied to him was faulty or whether the installation led to the issue with 
water leaking into it. I recognise that Mr G has some engineering experience and so he is 
not a novice in such matters. However S has been able to demonstrate that the installation 
was not carried out in line with its instructions.
The key element of Ss position is that the summerhouse is too close the perimeter fence 
and so the proper cladding could not have been applied correctly and the roof would not 
have been fitted as recommended. It argues that these installation issues are the cause of 
the leaks rather than the product itself.
It has also pointed out that Mr G has made other modifications which invalidate the warranty. 
Mr G has said that the wood as supplied was not as it should have been so he had to buy 
and install additional boards. I can understand why he did so, but it does make it more 
difficult to establish that the faults lay with the summerhouse as supplied by S.
In short Hitachi was presented with evidence that the building hadnt been installed as per 
the instructions and it had been modified. I can see why it took the decision to reject Mr Gs 
claim and while I have some sympathy with him I cannot safely conclude that Hitachi was 
wrong.
I have noted that S has said the summerhouse wasnt designed to have electricity installed. I 
have looked at the marketing material from S and I can see that there are photos supplied by 
customers showing electrical items installed. However, there is nothing specific which says 
that this summerhouse is suitable for an electrical supply to be fitted. 
I have noted the online exchange between Mr G and S in which he asked: Are you corner 
summerhouses ok install electrics to power a fridge and speaker? S replied: As long as you 
wont damage the wood its ok. We do not advise any modification as this can void the 
warranty of the building.
Mr G refers to generic corner summerhouses rather than the specific one he was 
considering buying and D doesnt ask which one and gives a qualified response. It doesnt 
specify that the specific summerhouse can carry electrics and it is a qualified reply. I can see 
why Mr G thought it would be ok to install electrics, but the wording of the reply is not 
sufficient to say that he was misled by S.
I have a lot of sympathy with Mr G, but from the evidence provided I cannot conclude Hitachi 
did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman