DRN-2644233
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc charged him a balance transfer fee on his new 
credit card.
What happened
Mr G applied for a credit card with Sainsburys through an online comparison site. He was 
looking for a card with an interest free period that he could transfer the balance from a 
different card to. He also wanted to avoid any balance transfer fees. 
His application was successful and his credit account was opened. He transferred a balance 
of £11,000 from another credit card. After the transaction completed, he noticed he had been 
charged a fee of £330. He wasnt happy as he said he had applied for the card specifically 
because it didnt charge a fee for balance transfers. He called Sainsburys to make a 
complaint.
After speaking to Mr G on the phone Sainsburys concluded that he must have applied for the 
wrong card. It said it would cancel his new card and arrange for the transfer to be reversed. 
However it said that he wouldnt be able to apply for the other card for three months. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
After our investigator contacted Sainsburys, it said it had given Mr G incorrect information 
about its complaint process. It had told him to bring his complaint to this service rather than 
going through its own complaint process first. It said it would offer £50 compensation to 
make up for this error. However it maintained its position on Mr Gs card, it said he had 
made a mistake when he applied and it didnt think it should do anything further.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. She said after looking at the terms and conditions 
of the card, she didnt think it would have been clear to Mr G that there would be a charge for 
balance transfers. She thought if it had been clear, he would have acted differently and 
would have cancelled the card within the cooling off period. 
Mr G had said that his card with Sainsburys was still open and he was continuing to make 
payments. So she thought it would be fair for Sainsburys to transfer the balance on the card 
to the one Mr G intended to apply for, with no fees applied. She also thought Sainsburys 
should pay an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr G. 
Mr G accepted our investigators opinion. However Sainsburys didnt. It said it didnt agree it 
had made an error, so didnt think it should do anything more. It asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to look at whether the business has done something 
wrong. And where it has, consider what it should do to put its customer back in the position 
they would have been in if it hadnt. 
In this case Mr G is unhappy that he has been charged a balance transfer fee when he 
thought hed applied for a card that didnt charge one.
It hasnt been possible to recover information from when Mr G applied for the card, as this 
was done through a comparison site. However its agreed by both sides that Mr G intended 
to apply for a card Sainsburys offer that has a shorter interest free period and no balance 
transfer fees, but this isnt the card he ended up with.
As Ive not been able to see what information Mr G was provided with when he selected the 
card, Ive considered what was provided after his application was successful. As with all 
credit agreements, Mr G had a 14 day cooling off period after his successful application. This 
allows time for customers to review the information about the agreement and cancel without 
penalty. So this should have made him aware that the card he had opened wasnt the one 
he intended to apply for. 
Sainsburys has provided a copy of the terms and conditions for the card. Its confirmed 
these were available to Mr G both electronically and sent to him by post. On page two of the 
document it states as follows:
Balance Transfers 
0.00% fee applies on transfers made within your first 0 months (minimum £3). The charge 
will depend on your current offer there after - you can find out what this is by calling us
Further on in the document  on page 8  it states as follows under the title charges:
We may charge a fee on the amount of a balance transfer or money transfer. This will vary 
dependent on your current offer. You can find out what this is by calling us. We charge a 
cash fee of 3.00%.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for credit related 
activities in its Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC). In CONC 3.3.1R it states that 
communications from financial businesses providing credit to their customers must be clear, 
fair and not misleading.
Ive taken this into account when reviewing the information provided to Mr G and I dont 
agree it was clear and not misleading. The information set out on the second page appears 
to indicate there wont be a fee for balance transfers. And it isnt until much further into the 
document that the charge is made clear. So I think the information provided was unclear and 
misleading. And it wouldnt have been clear to Mr G that the card he had applied for wasnt 
the one he intended to from the documents provided. 
Because I think Sainsburys has provided unclear information, Ive considered what Mr G 
would have done if the information provided had been clear. When he noticed he had been 
charged the transfer fee, he called Sainsburys straight away and arranged for the account to 
be cancelled. This supports what Mr G has explained  that he was looking for a credit card 
that wouldnt charge this fee. 
So I think had this been made clear to him as soon as he had taken out the account, it is 
most likely he would have cancelled the account within the 14 day cooling off period.   
Putting things rightBased on this, I need to decide what Sainsburys should do to put things right for Mr G. It 
has said that if he had cancelled the account within the 14 day cooling off period, then Mr G 
may have still had to wait three months until he could apply for the other account. However it 
said there are some circumstances when this would be overridden.
In response to our investigators opinion Sainsburys has said that this would only happen in 
exceptional circumstances and it thinks it unlikely that Mr Gs would have been considered 
exceptional. 
However if Mr G had cancelled in the cooling off period, even if the three months hadnt be 
waived, its likely that he would now be able to apply for a new account. Instead, he has 
explained that his account is still open and he has been making payments to it for four 
months. 
So in order to put things right, I agree with our investigator that Sainsburys should open the 
account Mr G intended to apply for  with no transfer fees - and transfer his balance onto 
this card without any fees. I also agree that the incorrect information provided has caused 
Mr G unnecessary distress and inconvenience and Sainsburys should pay £50 
compensation to make up for this. 
I note Sainsburys has offered £50 compensation as it says it didnt follow its complaint 
handling process correctly. As complaint handling isnt an activity thats regulated by the 
FCA, it doesnt fall within the remit of this service to consider, so I havent made any 
consideration of this in my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I require Sainsbury's Bank Plc to:
Re-work Mr Gs credit card application in order to open the account Mr G originally 
intended to apply for (subject to required eligibility criteria being met).
Transfer the balance on his current credit card directly onto the new account, with no 
balance transfer fees charged.
Pay Mr G £50 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman