DRN-3284818
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, 
surrounding his attempt to deposit cash into a HSBC branch.
What happened
Mr N went into a HSBC branch to deposit some cash into his first direct account. However, 
after waiting 20 minutes to be seen, Mr N was told that the particular branch hed visited was 
a digital only branch and that cash deposits werent accepted. 
Mr N attempted to telephone first direct to ask about what had happened but didnt continue 
with the call due to the long hold times. Mr N then tried to use the online chat facility to 
communicate with first direct, and wasnt happy that he had to wait over two hours for a 
response to his initial inquiry  which confirmed that cash couldnt be paid in at HSBC digital 
only branches but that cash could be paid into first direct accounts at another location. Mr N 
wasnt happy with the outcome of his discussion with first direct, or with the service hed 
received, so he raised a complaint.
First direct looked at Mr Ns complaint. They apologised to Mr N for his finding the live chat 
service to be unhelpful and slow, but they confirmed that they have no control over whether 
HSBC branches offer counter services or not.
Mr N wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that first direct had acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in their dealings with Mr N, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Ns 
complaint.
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr N might have been frustrated to have gone into a HSBC branch to 
deposit cash into his first direct account only to then discover that the particular branch hed 
visited didnt provide counter services meaning that he couldnt deposit cash as hed wanted. 
However, HSBC arent obliged to offer counter services at every branch, and Mr N could 
have checked the services that were offered at that particular branch before visiting, or 
immediately upon entering the branch.
Mr N is also unhappy with the difficulties he had communicating with first direct about what 
had taken place, including that there were long hold times on the telephone and that it took 
over two hours for his direct char enquiry to be responded to.
I can appreciate Mr Ns position here, but there can be periods where financial institutions 
such as first direct are busy such that telephone hold times can be high, and so that there 
arent available agents to respond to live chat in a shorter of time than happened here. 
However, a wait of over two hours for a response to a live chat is a significant amount of 
time. But it must be remembered that Mr N chose to not continue to hold on the telephone, 
which if he had continued to hold, likely would have resulted in his being able to speak with a 
first direct agent sooner than was the case via live chat.
When Mr N was able to communicate with first direct, it was explained to him that he could 
deposit cash into his first direct account at another commonly found high street location if he 
wanted to do so. I also note that on the first direct website, the ways to bank section starts 
off by also explained that cash can be paid into first direct accounts either at HSBC or the 
other commonly found high street location.
Im therefore satisfied that the information that Mr N received from first direct via the live chat 
was a fair and correct response to his issue about not being able to pay cash into his 
account at the particular HSBC branch that hed visited  albeit I acknowledge that Mr N had 
to wait some time in order to receive that information. It also must be remembered that a live 
chat feature is usually an informal communication feature designed to provide general 
information, and so it can be the case that financial institutions such as first direct prioritise 
telephone callers during busy periods.
Unfortunately, it can be the case that an unavoidable amount of necessary inconvenience 
can occasionally occur when attempting to contact busy financial institutions such as first 
direct. And while I can appreciate why Mr N might not have wanted to wait on hold on the 
telephone, and so attempted contact first direct using the live chat feature, I feel that by 
making that choice Mr N opened himself to the possibility that it might take longer for first 
direct to respond to him than might otherwise have been the case.
Ultimately, I feel that the apology that first direct issued to Mr N about this point does provide 
a fair and reasonable resolution to this aspect of Mr Ns complaint, and I dont feel that any 
award of compensation for the length of time it took first direct to respond to Mr Ns live chat 
enquiry is merited in this instance.
Finally, I note that Mr N has made several references to this service about his displeasure 
with how first direct handled his complaint to them, including that first direct took longer than 
eight weeks to respond to his complaint and in regard to incorrect information provided in 
their initial complaint response. 
Once again, I can understand how Mr N would feel strongly about these points. But as the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, our remit is limited to considering complaints about the 
provision of financial services. But how a business handles a complaint thats been received 
from a customer isnt itself a financial service  even though the content of the customers 
complaint may itself be about financial services. And because how a business handles a 
complaint isnt a financial service, this means that this service cant consider complaints from 
an individual about how a business has handled or responded to that individuals complaint  
because it isnt within our remit to do so.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr N was wanting here, but if follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing first direct to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that Mr N will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman