DRN-2735981
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned 
down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr M has brought the complaint to us on Cs behalf. 
What happened
C hold a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. They claimed on their policy after 
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. They 
said theyd also had to dispose of stock as it was unused by the best before date. 
 
AXA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable 
disease at the premises, C had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. As C hadnt indicated that there had been a case of Covid-19 at their 
premises, AXA turned down their claim.
 
C were unhappy with AXAs response and brought their complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
AXA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at 
the premises. And as C wasnt able to show there had been a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises, the claim wasnt covered.  
 
C disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
C and their members. But, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Cs claim.  
 
The most relevant part of Cs policy covers: 
 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result 
of a notifiable human disease other than Acquired Immune Deficiency 
Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition manifesting itself at the 
Premises or at any situations (or to property) as specifically mentioned in 
the Schedule
 
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this term covers Cs claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the business premises to 
have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the 
premises. I understand some of Cs members had Covid-19, but they havent been able to 
show its most likely any of them were on Cs premises at the time. As C havent shown its 
most likely anyone at their premises had Covid-19, I dont think this extension covers their 
claim. 
  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome C were hoping for but, having considered this matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask AXA to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman