DRN-2600719
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) shouldnt have marked 
their credit file and gave them the wrong information about charges.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr and Ms B had an unauthorised overdraft of £37,095 from Nationwide. 
The balance was repaid in February 2018 and the balance was then nil. Charges of £656 
were then debited to the account between February 2018 and January 2019. The balance of 
£656 debit was written off by Nationwide in January 2019. Mr and Ms Bs credit records were 
marked. 
Mr and Ms B complained. They said that Nationwide had refunded the charges and therefore 
their credit records shouldnt be marked. They said that Nationwide had told them that 
charges wouldnt be made. Nationwide hadnt called them back as promised. They said that 
Nationwides complaint handler was arrogant.
Nationwide said the charges had been correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. They had an obligation to report accurate information to credit reference 
agencies  and thats what theyd done. They apologised for not returning Mr Bs call  and 
paid £50 compensation. 
Mr and Ms B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said that the 
circumstances of the overdraft were subject to a previous complaint for which an 
ombudsman issued a final decision in November 2018. Looking at Mr and Ms Bs new 
complaint, she could see there was an unauthorised overdraft which had no payments into it 
 and therefore Nationwide were right to report this to credit reference agencies. She agreed 
that Nationwide failed to call them back in April 2019  theyd apologised for that and paid 
£50 compensation. Shed asked Nationwide for the calls where Mr and Ms B said theyd 
agreed not to make charges. But not all calls were recorded  and they couldnt trace these 
calls. Neither was the call with the complaint handler recorded. So, she said that Nationwide 
didnt need to do anymore.
Mr B and Ms B asked that their complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint, it should be noted that the circumstances of the overdraft in 
October 2017 were the subject of a previous complaint. In November 2018, an ombudsman 
concluded in her final decision that Nationwide could charge account and overdraft fees. So, 
I wont be looking at those aspects of this complaint, or any other parts of it.
I can see that the account balance was £37,095 debit in October 2017 - and remained 
overdrawn until £37,273 was repaid in February 2019. From October 2017 until January 
2019  there was an account fee of £13 per month and an unauthorised overdraft fee of £50 
per month. By January 2019, the balance was £656 debit  made up of the fees and 
charges.
Nationwide told us Mr and Ms Bs credit records were marked as in arrears for the whole of 
this period, other than for February 2018  when the balance was nil.
Mr and Ms B say that as the charges were refunded by Nationwide in January 2019 - their 
credit file shouldnt have been marked.  And in any case, Nationwide had agreed not to 
make these charges in the first place.
I can see that the account was written off in January 2019. To do this, Nationwide refunded 
the charges of £656. But  Nationwide told us that the charges were refunded as a gesture 
of goodwill - they just wanted to close off the account. They said the charges were justified 
and applied correctly. And our final decision in November 2018 concluded that Nationwide 
could apply charges.  So, my consideration is  were Nationwide correct in advising the 
position to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
All lenders, including Nationwide, are obligated to report accurate information to the CRAs. I 
can see there was a debit balance of £37,095 from October 2017 to February 2018  and 
between £63 and £656 between March 2018 and January 2019. There were no repayments 
made by Mr and Ms B. And so  the account was in arrears. And so  Nationwide were right 
to report this information to the CRAs.
Our investigator challenged Nationwide about whether the calls that Mr and Ms B say 
happened were recorded. Nationwide have searched their records and found nothing. They 
dont have to record all calls  and we cant tell them to do so. So  I cant say that 
Nationwide agreed not to make charges. The call between Mr and Ms B and the complaint 
handler also wasnt recorded  but his line manager was sitting next to him when he spoke 
to Mr B, and he says he heard nothing to suggest he was rude or arrogant.  
I can see from the correspondence and discussions with Mr and Ms B that they feel strongly 
about what happened. And so  I know they will feel disappointed by my decision  but I 
cant say that Nationwide need to do anything more here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman