DRN-1615239
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
 
What happened
Mrs B opened a store card account in a shop in September 1992. AXAs records show that 
PPI was added to her account in April 1993, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Bs card each 
month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she wasn't told that a PPI policy would be added to her account. I've 
seen a copy of her application for the store card. It incudes a section about "Payment 
Protection Plus" (a form of PPI). There's a box to initial if the applicant doesn't wish to 
take the cover. So I'm satisfied that it would have been clear from the application 
form that PPI was optional. Mrs B initialled the box to indicate that she didn't want the 
cover. And PPI wasn't added to her account at the outset. 
 
The PPI policy was added to Mrs B's account more than seven months after she 
opened it.  AXA hasn't been able to provide a recording of the phone call in which the 
sale took place. I dont think thats unreasonable, given that this was more than 
25 years ago. 
 I dont know what was said to Mrs B about the PPI during the phone call. But at the 
point when the PPI was added, shed already had the account without PPI for more 
than seven months. So I think she'd have realised that she didn't have to take out 
PPI in order to have the account. On balance, I think it's more likely than not that 
there would have been a discussion about PPI and Mrs B would have been asked if 
she wanted to take it out. And I think it's more likely than not that Mrs B decided to 
take out the cover, even if she no longer remembers this.
 
Ive also borne in mind that once the PPI was added to her account, monthly 
premiums would have started to show on Mrs Bs store card statements. If she hadn't 
wanted the cover, or wasn't aware that shed taken it out, I think its likely shed have 
queried this at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs B decided to take 
out the cover, knowing that she didn't have to  although I can understand why she 
may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
 
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs B. So it didn't have to check that it was right 
for her. It was for Mrs B to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what other 
means shed have had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was off 
sick, or if she lost her job. But AXA did have a responsibility to give Mrs B clear 
enough information to enable her to decide whether the policy was right for her.
 
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasn't as 
clear as it should have been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as 
if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. 
Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Mrs B was eligible 
to take out the policy. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was unaffordable for 
her.
 
Mrs Bs told us shed have been entitled to sick pay from her employer at the time. 
But if shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, 
or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been 
repaid - whichever was the earliest. So the PPI would potentially have paid out 
for longer than Mrs B's told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay for.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs B's told us that her employer operated a "no redundancy" 
policy. But I don't think there'd have been any guarantee that Mrs B's employer would 
keep this policy in place indefinitely, or that it meant that there was no risk at all of 
her being made redundant. Whats more, the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
any payments she received from her employer, allowing her to use those to cover 
other day-to-day expenses.
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful for Mrs 
B, particularly as shes told us that aside from payments from her employer, she didn't have any other means she could have used to make her monthly store card 
repayments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
 
Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Mrs B doesn't 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So Im 
not convinced that better information about the PPI would have put Mrs B off taking it 
out. This means I dont think shes lost out as a result of anything that AXA may have 
done wrong.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman