DRN-1666559
The complaint
Mr D has complained that between 2005 and 2017, Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-
sold him several packaged bank accounts. He paid monthly fees for the accounts and 
received several potential benefits in return. He thinks that Barclays should refund him the 
fees he paid for all of these accounts, plus interest. 
What happened
Mr D has banked with Barclays for quite a long time. Barclays has checked its records for 
him and has told us that:
In May 2005, it sold Mr D a packaged account called a First Additions account, for 
which it charged a monthly fee, 
in June 2008, it sold him a different packaged account, called an Additions Active 
account, which replaced his First Additions account, and for which it charged a higher 
fee,
in January 2017, it switched him to a fee-free account, but added two packages of 
potential benefits called a Tech Pack and a Travel Pack, for which it charged higher 
total fees than for the Additions Active account.
I think that Barclays records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them to be 
correct. 
When Mr D complained directly to Barclays, it agreed that it had mis-sold him the First 
Additions account and seems to have paid him fair compensation for that mis-sale, so I 
havent considered that part of Mr Ds complaint any further. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the rest of Mr Ds complaint, and didnt
think that we could consider the sale of the Additions Active account as it fell outside our 
jurisdiction and didnt think that Barclays had done anything significantly wrong when it 
switched Mr D to the Tech Pack and Travel Pack.
.
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ds complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr D and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. I dont think we can look into the way
Barclays sold Mr D the Additions Active account, and I am not upholding his complaint about 
the Tech Pack and the Travel Pack. Ill explain why.
With respect to the Additions Active account, the Financial Conduct Authority has set time 
limits on when people can bring complaints to us. The adjudicator thought that Mr Ds 
complaint about the sale of the Additions Active account fell outside these time limits. Mr D 
seems to have accepted this and I also agree with the adjudicator. So, I have not considered 
the way Barclays sold the Additions Active account as I do not have the right to do so.
Turning to the way Barclays sold the Tech Pack and the Travel Pack to Mr D, I understand 
that this happened when, for commercial reasons, Barclays decided to withdraw the 
Additions Active account from its customers. Along with other banks, Barclays is allowed to 
make changes like this, but has to treat its customers fairly by giving them notice, telling 
them what is happening and explaining what choices are available to them. Barclays has 
said it did this for Mr D. To support its case, it has sent us copies of two letters it sent to him. 
 .
The first letter told Mr D that Barclays intended to switch him to a Barclays Bank Account
with a Tech Pack and Travel Pack. It told him how much the two packs would cost and what 
features they would provide. It described in outline how these features compared to the 
potential benefits of the Additions Active account and pointed out that there would be a price 
increase. It also told Mr D that he could opt out of the two packs and that if he did
so his account would become A Barclays Bank Account.with no monthly fee.... It
described how he could opt out either by visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a
particular phone number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr D around four months after it sent the first. This letter 
told Mr D that Barclays had changed his account and that it would start to charge him for the
two packs. It also told him that he could remove them from his account at any time and so 
have a fee-free account.
Mr D has told us that Barclays never explained to him that there was a possibility of a fee 
free account. But I disagree, I think this option was clear in Barclays letters, both of which 
seem to have been correctly addressed. And in the full circumstances, it seems to me that 
Barclays behaved reasonably towards Mr D when it switched his account after sending him 
these two letters.
So, in summary, I havent considered the part of Mr Ds complaint about the First Additions 
account as Barclays has already upheld it and seems to have paid Mr D fair compensation; I 
havent considered the sale of the Additions Active account as I dont have the right to look 
into it; and I think that Barclays behaved reasonably when it switched Mr D to a fee-free 
account with two chargeable packs of features. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding any part Mr Ds complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. I am not going to tell Barclays to give Mr D any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman