DRN-3865440
The complaint
Mrs O complains because Vitality Life Limited (Vitality) reduced the sums assured under 
her life and critical illness insurance policy and reduced the amount of a settlement paid for a 
critical illness claim. Mrs O is also unhappy with how Vitality handled her claim. 
All references to Vitality include the agents appointed to deal with claims on its behalf. 
What happened
In September 2016, Mrs O took out a combined life and critical illness insurance policy 
through an independent financial advisor. The insurance is provided by Vitality. 
Unfortunately, in 2021, Mrs O needed to make a critical illness claim. Following some 
delays, Vitality declined the claim as it said Mrs O hadnt given it accurate information about 
her history of high blood pressure when she bought the policy. Vitality said, it if it had been 
given the correct information, it would have charged Mrs O an additional 100% of the 
premium for the life insurance element of her policy, and an additional 150% of the premium 
for the critical illness element. Therefore, Vitality said it would reduce the sums assured 
under Mrs Os policy and would also reduce the settlement due for her critical illness claim. 
Mrs O disputed Vitalitys decision. Vitality requested further information from Mrs Os GP 
and, after further delays, maintained its position to reduce the sums assured and to reduce 
the critical illness claim payment. Vitality paid Mrs O a total of £350 compensation in 
recognition of the delays shed experienced. 
Unhappy, Mrs O brought a complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
what had happened but said he wouldnt be asking Vitality to do anything further. Mrs O 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to 
decide, as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Mrs Os diagnosis and I have no doubt this must have been very 
traumatic and stressful time for her. I hope Mrs O is now doing well, and I wish her good 
health for the future. 
When considering Vitalitys actions in this case, Ive taken into account the relevant law (The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)). Ive also had 
regard to good industry practice about managing claims for misrepresentation and treating 
customers fairly (namely, the September 2019 Code of Practice set out by the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI)), as well as what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable 
consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For a 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Vitality thinks Mrs O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because 
of how she answered the below questions which were asked on her insurance policy 
application form in September 2016. Ive underlined the answers Mrs O gave. 
Your health in the last 5 years
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of 
the following in the last 5 years:

Raised blood pressure or raised cholesterol Yes

5. When did you last have your blood pressure checked by a medical professional? 
Please give your answer in months:
1
6. Do you know your most recent blood pressure reading?
Yes
7. Please key in the first number of the reading (eg. for a blood pressure reading of 
120/80 the first number is 120 and the first number will always be the higher figure)
120
8. Please key in the second number of the reading (e.g for a blood pressure of 
120/80 the second number is 80 and the second number will always be the lower 
figure)
80
Im satisfied that the questions asked by Vitality regarding raised blood pressure were clear 
and specific. 
Mrs Os medical records show that the last time she had her blood pressure checked before 
making the policy application was in November 2015, when her blood pressure reading was 
162/102. Mrs O didnt provide this information to Vitality in response to the questions she 
was asked, so I dont think she took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation about 
her medical history. 
Ive considered the letter from Mrs Os GP dated 10 March 2022, which comments on Mrs 
Os white coat hypertension and points out that Mrs Os blood pressure reading carried out four months prior to November 2015 was normal. However, neither this letter nor Mrs Os 
submissions that the lack of any blood pressure readings in the six months before taking out 
the policy mean there was no issues with her blood pressure, change my decision that I 
think Mrs O failed to take reasonable care. An insurer is entitled to decide the level of risk 
which it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium and, while Mrs O may 
feel that her high blood pressure reading in November 2015 was irrelevant, this is 
information which Vitality is reasonably entitled to take into account when making a 
commercial decision about what cover it will offer to prospective policyholders. I understand 
Mrs O says she was taking her blood pressure readings at home but Mrs O was asked when 
she last had her blood pressure checked by a medical professional, and the information 
which Mrs O gave to Vitality about her blood pressure on her application form simply wasnt 
accurate. 
Vitality has provided underwriting evidence which Im satisfied demonstrates that it would 
have added a loading of 100% to Mrs Os life insurance premium and a loading of 150% to 
Mrs Os critical illness premium if shed provided it with the correct information on her policy 
application form. Vitality has also explained what would have happened if Mrs O had said 
she didnt know what her most recent blood pressure readings were in response to the 
question asked on her application form  and Im satisfied based on the information which 
Vitality has provided that such an answer would ultimately have led to the same loadings 
which Ive mentioned above being applied. 
So, I think Vitality has demonstrated that Mrs O made a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA. Vitality has treated Mrs Os misrepresentation as a careless one and I dont think 
this is unreasonable. 
This means that, under CIDRA, Vitality is entitled to reduce proportionately the amount to be 
paid for Mrs Os critical illness claim. Ive reviewed Vitalitys calculations, which are in line 
with the formula set out under CIDRA, and Im satisfied that its payment to Mrs O in 
settlement of her critical illness claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Furthermore, Vitalitys decision to reduce the sums assured under Mrs Os policy is in line 
with both CIDRA and the relevant ABI Code so Im also satisfied that this wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Vitality didnt handle this claim as it should have. While any delays by 
Mrs Os GP were outside of Vitalitys control, I dont think Vitality progressed Mrs Os claim 
promptly, and I dont think it provided her with appropriate information on the progress of her 
claim in line with the requirements set out by the regulator. Vitality has acknowledged there 
were delays throughout the claims process. 
And, while I dont think Vitality acted unreasonably by requesting further information from 
Mrs Os GP in May 2022 (based on what Ive seen, it did this in an attempt to obtain 
evidence which may have provided a better outcome for Mrs O), I think Vitality could have 
communicated more clearly with Mrs O about what information it was requesting, and why. 
There was also subsequent confusion on the part of Vitality as to whether the information it 
requested had been received, which caused Mrs O obvious frustration. 
I also understand there were issues surrounding the amount of the initial claim payment 
made by Vitality to Mrs O, but I think this was subsequently rectified fairly promptly in the 
circumstances.  
Vitality has paid Mrs O a total of £350 compensation in recognition of the issues with arose 
with its handling of her claim. Having considered all the circumstances of this complaint, 
including the timeline of events which took place, Im satisfied that the £350 which Vitality 
has paid fairly compensates Mrs O for the impact of Vitalitys actions on her. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O and I know this wont be the outcome she was hoping for, but I 
wont be directing Vitality to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman