DRN-3466491
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
has declined a claim she made under her pet insurance policy for the veterinary treatment of 
her dog.
What happened
Mrs H took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands on 14 January 2021 to cover her dog 
which Ill refer to as B. 
On 9 February 2022 B underwent a procedure to remove a mass on his muzzle. The 
condition treated was diagnosed as Sebaceous Gland Epithelioma. This procedure cost 
£699.12 which Mrs H sought to claim from Red Sands under her policy.
Red Sands declined Mrs Hs claim. The reason it gave for doing so was that Bs veterinary 
history confirmed that a lump on Bs muzzle was first noticed in December 2020. As it was 
noticed before the policy start date on 14 January 2021, it was classed as a pre-existing 
condition, and pre-existing conditions arent covered by Mrs Hs policy. It referred Mrs H to 
the following term of her policy:
Pre-existing conditions
Pre-existing conditions arent covered by this policy. We consider a condition to be 
pre-existing if your pet showed any signs or symptoms of it before your cover start 
date, whether they needed treatment previously or not.
Insurance Product Information Document
The term goes on to say:
If you noticed something was wrong with your pet before you took out the policy, it could 
be a sign of a pre-existing condition. This is true even if you decided not to take them to 
the vet. 
The policy also states that the following isnt insured:
Any illness or condition which is present or has clinical signs or symptoms before 
taking the policy out or occurs in the first 14 days of the policy
Red Sands consequently introduced an exclusion into Mrs Hs policy which stated: 
  Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Epitheliomas and Resulting Conditions 
with effect from 14 January 2021 and excludes cover on all claims with respect to the 
Sebaceous Glands and Resulting Conditions with effect from 14 January 2021.
Mrs H asked that the rejection of her claim be reassessed, and she provided a letter from the 
vet. This stated that the lump on Bs muzzle was initially noted in Bs records in January 
2021 and recorded as a skin tag which didnt require any treatment. It was noted again in 
December 2021 and as it was growing, monitoring was advised. A decision was made to 
remove it in February 2022 as it was noted to be ulcerated.
On 4 March 2022 Red Sands confirmed that it had reassessed Mrs Hs claim having 
received the further information from Bs vet. It also referred to a note in Bs clinical records 
of 4 January 2021 which referred to Mrs H having reported that Bs groomer had caught a 
skin tag near Bs eye. It maintained its rejection of her claim.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Red Sands final response rejecting her claim, so she brought her 
complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that Mrs Hs claim had been declined 
in line with the policy terms and conditions and that these were made clear at the inception 
of the policy.
Mrs H doesnt agree with our investigators view. She maintains that Bs skin tag wasnt a 
pre-existing condition as no treatment or medication was given. She also says she couldnt 
see why a visual check that might disclose a mole- like mark should be reported in case it 
turned into a problem some time later and needed treatment. She asked that her complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Bs clinical records and the information provided by Bs vet. These provide the 
following assistance in making my decision:
The vet in his letter in support of Mrs Hs claim specifically refers to the lump 
removed from Bs muzzle on 9 February 2022. He says this lump was initially noted 
in Bs records in January 2021 as a skin tag which didnt need treatment at that time. 
This reference to a skin tag was made in Bs clinical records on 4 January 2021.
Bs clinical records show that on 9 December 2021 it was reported that a lump on the 
right side of Bs snout had grown since it was noticed in December 2020 and had 
perhaps doubled in size since then. 
This leads me to be satisfied that Mrs H was aware of a lump on Bs muzzle in December 
2020 and that she reported this to the vet on 4 January 2021 when it was noted as a skin 
tag. She was therefore aware of the lump/skin tag before taking out her policy on 14 January 
2021 and didnt declare the lump when doing so.
Ive looked at Mrs Hs policy and her Insurance Product Information Document. I consider 
that its clear and prominent that pre-existing conditions arent covered. Ive quoted the 
relevant wording above. I do appreciate the point that Mrs H has made about declaring 
mole-like objects, but the exclusion does state:
If you noticed something was wrong with your pet before you took out the policy, it 
could be a sign of a pre-existing condition.
Mrs H can only disclose what shes seen. What she says she saw was a lump or skin tag in 
December 2020, and she mentioned this to the vet on 4 January 2021. She was told to 
monitor it and to come back if there was any sign of infection. A lump could be a sign of 
something that might require treatment at some point, so I consider that Mrs H shouldve 
declared this to Red Sands. Had she done so Red Sands couldve taken a view as to 
whether this was likely to affect the risk it faced when insuring B. As it turned out, its underwriting guidelines required that the condition for which B was treated and other 
associated conditions be excluded from cover.
My conclusion is that Red Sands hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in rejecting Mrs Hs 
claim in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman