DRN-1251368
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about actions by Covea Insurance plc (Covea) as insurer under Mr 
W's motor insurance policy, after Mrs W was involved in a collision involving Mr W's car and 
a car driven by a third party (TP).  
What happened
In April 2018, Mr W arranged an insurance policy for his car through a broker (B). The 
underwriter of the policy was Covea.
In October 2018, there was an incident involving Mr Ws car driven by Mrs W, who was a 
named driver on the policy, and a car driven by TP. The cars were unable to pass each other 
on a narrow road, and photos show both cars were damaged on their offside.
Covea was notified of the incident by TPs insurer. As the underwriter of his policy, Covea 
wrote to Mr W saying TP alleged Mrs W had collided head on with TP, and asking Mr W to 
contact it so it could deal with the claim.
Mr W thought it was wrong to say there had been a head on collision, and he held TP 
responsible for the incident. So he instructed solicitors to pursue a claim against TP for the 
damage to his car and the personal injuries Mrs W had suffered. He thought it was better to 
proceed through the courts rather than the two insurers.
When a representative of Covea phoned him, Mr W told him he wanted to do this rather than 
make a claim on his policy. Mr W was annoyed when the representative wouldnt accept this, 
and when the representative told him Covea would have to deal with TPs claim. He wouldnt 
speak to the representative about the incident, and refused to respond to numerous further 
requests by Covea to contact it.
In January 2019, Covea wrote to Mr W saying that in the absence of information from Mr W 
it was unable to defend liability for the incident. So it had settled the claim made by TP on a 
without prejudice basis to keep its costs to a minimum. In June 2019, it said it was still 
willing to assist Mr W if he returned the claim form it sent him and made contact with it. 
Alternatively it offered to speak directly to his solicitors if it provided their details.
Mr W said his solicitors tried to progress his claim through TPs insurer, but it refused to 
reply to correspondence or phone calls. As he hadnt claimed under his policy, he didnt think 
Covea had any right to deal with any claim by TP. He said he wanted to see all 
correspondence between Covea and B, and TP and their insurer, but this had been 
impossible to obtain.
He was also upset that when his insurance came up for renewal, his no claims discount 
(NCD) was reduced, and his premium was increased, as this incident was showing on his 
insurance record as a fault claim. So he complained to us about what Covea had done. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that under 
the terms of Mr Ws insurance policy he had a duty to notify his insurer of any road traffic 
accident involving his car, and to discuss the details of the incident.
Covea had tried to contact Mr W several times, but without success. So she thought Covea 
had followed the terms of the policy, and hadnt done anything wrong. As it couldnt discuss 
the incident with Mr W, it decided to accept liability and deal with TP on a without prejudice 
basis. She thought as Covea hadnt heard from Mr W, it had carried out the correct process.
When the policy came to be renewed, the claim was still open. So Mr Ws NCD was reduced 
correctly in accordance with the terms of the policy, and this affected the premium he had to 
pay on renewal.
If Mr W now wished Covea to pay for the damage to his car and Mrs Ws personal injury, he 
needed to contact Covea and make a claim under his policy. She said there were data 
protection reasons why the information Mr W requested couldnt be supplied to him or his 
solicitors.
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that:
he didnt agree he had any obligation to deal with Covea in respect of the incident;
TPs claim was fraudulent, and Covea shouldnt have paid anything;
Coveas representative was aggressive when they phoned him; and
Mrs W was seeking the information he had asked for by making a subject access 
request to Covea.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr W arranged the policy through his broker, Covea was the insurer under the 
policy, as the policy itself makes clear. So when the incident occurred, it was Covea, not the 
broker, who had to deal with TP and their insurer.
Covea couldnt ignore TP and their insurer, as Mr W wanted it to, because under section 151 
of the Road Traffic Act 1988 a motor insurer is responsible for satisfying any judgement 
under its policy in respect of a compulsorily insured risk. So it wasnt willing to leave 
everything to Mr W and his solicitors.
Because of this potential liability, Mr Ws policy contained the following terms in the General 
Policy Conditions on page 21 of the policy:
Accidents and claims
You must notify us as soon as reasonably possible if you or any driver become aware of any 
accident or loss involving the car or of any other incident which may lead to a claim by you or 
by a third party..
You or anyone who drives the car must not admit liability for, offer, negotiate or seek 
settlement of any claim without our written permission
The insurer is entitled under this policy to;Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name or in 
the name of any other person insured by your policy.
Instigate proceedings at their own expense and for their own benefit but in your name 
or in the name of any other person insured by your policy to recover any payment 
that they have made under your policy.
Recover from you the amount of any claim that they are required to settle by law 
which the insurer would not otherwise have paid under this policy..
 
You or any person who makes a claim under your policy must give the insurer all reasonable 
assistance and information in relation to any claim made under your policy.
So not only did Covea have a legitimate interest in having the information to deal with TPs 
insurer in respect of the claim, it was entitled under the policy terms to receive this 
information and Mr Ws assistance.
It also had the right under the policy terms to take over, conduct, and settle the claim. In the 
absence of co-operation from Mr W. I think it acted reasonably in the way it exercised this 
power.
Mr W says TPs claim was fraudulent on the basis that TP said the collision was head on, 
whereas the contact between the two cars was side to side. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
fraud on the part of TP. But in the absence of information and assistance by Mr W, Covea 
was entitled to settled TPs claim as best it could.
Ive listened to the phone conversation between Mr W and Coveas representative. The 
representative tries to explain why it needed to be involved with the claim, because TP was 
claiming directly against the policy, but Mr W wasnt willing to accept this. He says the 
representative came across as aggressive, but I dont agree. Both parties were polite, but 
the conversation wasnt leading anywhere.
I asked the investigator to put to Covea Mr Ws claim that it had refused to respond to 
requests from Mr W and his solicitor for information and copies of correspondence. In reply 
Covea said:
I can confirm that we did not receive any communications from Mr Ws solicitor, either 
written or verbally. Neither Mr W nor a solicitor have asked us to supply any information.
If Mr Ws solicitor wants to get in touch, we will try and supply whatever information they may 
need.
If Mr W still wants information from Covea I suggest he now gets in touch with it as it 
suggests.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Covea has acted reasonably in the way it 
responded to the accident involving Mr Ws car, and in its dealings with Mr W himself. Covea 
settled TPs claim under the policy on a without prejudice basis. So it hasnt affected the 
ability of Mr W to take legal action against TP in the courts if he still wishes to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Covea 
Insurance plc.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman