DRN-1716775
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Spring Finance Limited made errors with her payments and unfairly 
recorded a late payment on her credit file. She says Springs terms and practices are unfair, 
charges are applied unfairly and she should be able to view her account online.
What happened
Mrs D took out a loan with Spring in August 2016. The loan was secured by a second charge 
on her house. Mrs D says Spring made errors with a payment in early 2019, and was unfair 
when it applied arrears fees, reported late payments to the credit reference agencies and 
when she asked to change her monthly payment date.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. He said Spring had 
allocated Mrs Ds payments correctly, using payments first to reduce arrears. He said Spring 
had responded reasonably when Mrs D asked about moving her monthly payment date. 
However, the investigator said it wasnt fair to apply arrears fees in a month when Mrs D 
made a full monthly payment. The investigator identified 11 occasions when he said fees 
should be refunded, with related interest, and Mrs Ds credit file corrected. I asked the 
investigator to write to the parties again, as I thought that it was fair for Spring to apply fees 
on some of the occasions he'd identified. 
Spring agreed to refund eight arrears fees, saying this was a goodwill gesture. Mrs D said 
she accepted the recommendation, although she didnt agree with all of it. And she remained 
concerned about incorrect information on her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
moving the monthly payment due date
The loan terms require Mrs D to make monthly payments  that is a payment in each 
calendar month. Her monthly payment due date is the 30th. Mrs D asked to change her 
payment date in late 2017 and in late 2019. She said this would fit better with when shes 
paid. 
I think Spring dealt with Mrs Ds request to move the payment date fairly. On both occasions 
that Mrs D asked for the payment date to be moved to mid month shed missed the payment 
due in the previous month. She told Spring she wouldnt be able to make up the late 
payment and her next payment until the end of the month. 
Moving the payment due date forwards to mid month would likely have resulted in another 
late payment. And moving the next payment date backwards - to the middle of the following 
month - would have meant no payment being due or made for a month. This wouldnt be 
consistent with the loan terms requiring a payment to be made each month, and would mean the loan wouldnt be repaid by its planned expiry date. I think it was reasonable for Spring to 
decline to do this.
allocation of payments
The loan agreement says payments will be applied first to payment arrears and then to the 
current monthly payment. Mrs D sometimes missed a monthly payment. When she made a 
payment in the following month this was treated as the payment that was due (and not paid) 
the previous month. I think this was correct.
arrears fees
Managing accounts in arrears involves extra work for lenders. So lenders often apply a 
charge to cover their additional costs. The loan agreement Mrs D signed says Spring can 
apply charges. Its tariff of charges says it will apply a monthly arrears charge of £35 per 
month when the equivalent of two monthly payments are missed. It will continue to apply the 
charge while any amount is overdue. It doesnt apply a charge while a payment arrangement 
is maintained.
The loan agreement says payments will be applied first to payment arrears and then to the 
current monthly payment. Mrs D sometimes missed a monthly payment. So when she made 
a payment in the next month, this was treated as the payment that was due (and not paid) 
the previous month. If this payment arrived after the payment due date, Mrs D would have 
missed two payments. 
When this happened, Spring was entitled under the terms of the loan to apply monthly 
arrears fees until the arrears were cleared or until a payment arrangement was agreed and 
maintained. 
But in addition to the loan terms, Spring has to comply with rules set out in the Mortgage 
Conduct of Business rules. That is, it shouldnt apply charges unfairly and any charges 
should be no more than necessary to over its reasonable costs. 
I think the pattern of late payments, and the information Mrs D provided to Spring, 
suggests financial difficulties. Spring should take this into account when dealing with Mrs D. 
Mrs D did often make payments late. But she would also catch up with payments and 
regularly bring the account up to date. On some occasions she brought the account up to 
date within a few days of the second missed payment.
There were occasions when I think it was fair for Spring to apply arrears fees. For instance, 
in early 2019 Mrs D was behind with her payments. She made promises to pay which 
werent kept. Spring contacted Mrs D several times and it did extra work during this period. I 
dont think it was unfair to apply arrears management fees to cover its additional costs.
While Spring didn't agree that other arrears fees identified by the investigator as unfair had 
been applied unfairly, it agreed to refund them as a goodwill gesture. I think this is a fair 
outcome.
reports to the credit reference agencies
Spring has to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference agencies. 
Mrs D didnt always make payments on time. I think its fair for her credit file to reflect this. While Mrs D said she was concerned about incorrect information on her credit file, she didnt 
provide a copy of her credit report. I cant fairly find that Spring has recorded inaccurate or 
unfair information without evidence of this.
on-line access to the account
Mrs D would like to be able to view her account on-line, and I appreciate this might make it  
easier for her to manage her account. But if this isn't a service offered by Spring, I can't fairly 
require it to offer online access to Mrs D. 
Putting things right
Spring has agreed to refund arrears fees applied in November 2017, January 2018, July 
2018, August 2018, November 2018, May 2019, June 2019 and November 2019. I think this 
is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Spring Finance Limited to refund the 
arrears management fees set out above, as it's agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman