DRN-3281704
The complaint
Miss H complains TSB Bank plc are holding onto funds which belong to her. She wants the 
funds returned and compensation.
What happened
The events leading up to Miss H bringing her complaint about TSB to our service are well 
known to both parties. I find no need to repeat that information here, except to say that Miss 
H feels she has provided enough information to TSB for it to release the funds it is holding 
following the closure of her personal current account. Ill now focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why:
Miss H admits to using her personal account to purchase stock for her sisters 
company based in another country. She says her sister would make payments in 
non-GBP currency to individuals offering money exchange services, and those 
persons would then arrange for payments in GBP to be paid to Miss Hs TSB 
account. Miss H used the funds paid into her account to purchase stock which she 
would ship to her sister to sell.
I have reviewed all the information Miss H has sent in full. Based on what I have 
seen, the following is apparent:
oMiss Hs sister does appear to run a business through which she sells 
products to customers by advertising through social media and conducting 
sales through online messaging applications. Records of conversations have 
been supplied which appear to show sales for products being agreed this 
way. And records have been provided which appear to show customer 
payments crediting her sisters accounts following conversations.
oMiss H appears to send regular packages to her sister using a shipping 
company based in the UK. Its clear she has made many purchases from UK 
retailers, which may have then been sent to her sister.
oMiss Hs sister holds at least two accounts in her companys name and one 
savings account. Her sister made payments from those accounts to other 
accounts held by third parties, who appear to offer money exchange services. 
Miss H has pointed out on statements the payments she says represent the 
equivalent payments paid into her TSB account. She also provided messages 
apparently made between her sister and various individuals in which the 
exchanges were agreed.
oMiss H provided payment confirmation records from the persons who made 
payments to her TSB account. So, in being able to obtain these records, it 
appears those persons are not disputing the payments they made to her 
account.
oMiss Hs husband sent a letter saying the majority of funds TSB are holding 
represent repayment of money he lent Miss Hs sister. In other words, TSB 
are holding his funds. He provided a credit card statement showing he made 
a large payment from a credit card to a current account he holds. The 
statement shows he later made payments to Miss Hs TSB account. He also 
provided statements for another credit card he holds showing payments made 
via an online payment service provider, which he says were to Miss H.
Miss H was clearly running her personal account as a proxy for her sisters business 
which is based outside of the United Kingdom. This is clear misuse of the account 
and is in direct breach of TSBs terms and conditions. Those terms state:
These accounts are for your personal use only, so these terms and conditions arent 
for business customers, including clubs, charities, sole traders and partnerships.
The terms also state TSB isnt responsible for any business losses.
Miss H says she was unaware she couldnt use her account for business purposes, 
but as TSBs customer she was obligated to understand the terms of her account and 
how it was to be used. I dont find it credible that she was unaware that personal 
accounts are for personal spending and that businesses generally need to open 
business accounts to carry out commercial activity.
So, I find TSB acted reasonably by terminating its relationship with Miss H and 
closing the account.
Miss H says that the funds TSB retained represent in the main the repayment of 
funds her husband borrowed on his credit card and lent to Miss Hs sisters company. 
But Miss H didnt reveal this to TSB or our service when she brought the complaint, 
which I find unusual given the level of detail she provided at that time. On bringing 
the complaint, she had clearly stated the funds TSB hold represented capital 
belonging to her sisters company and she made it clear that her sisters company 
was suffering by not being able to use the funds in the account. 
Banks have extensive legal and regulatory obligations they must follow when 
providing accounts. In summary, those obligations primarily concern preventing 
financial harm where possible (including harm to third parties known and unknown), 
as well as preventing and stopping financial crime. 
To comply with their responsibilities, banks need to be able to understand and verify 
to a high degree their customer and especially their customers businesses. They 
would need to be able to readily verify the origin of funds paid into and out of an 
account, the purpose of those funds, and the person(s) behind those payments, 
particularly when customer payments are not directly paid into the account.
The account TSB provided was for the personal use of Miss H, a UK resident, and 
not for a company based outside of the market it operates in. If Miss Hs sister 
wanted to use a TSB account to purchase stock from UK retailers, she ought to have 
applied for a business account with TSB. And, TSB may not have agreed to provide 
an account to her company, a decision it would have been entitled to make.
From a practical standpoint, TSB would find it difficult to carry out its responsibilities if 
it provided an account for Miss Hs sisters company.TSB would likely have difficulty verifying the origin of funds paid in by individuals 
providing personal money exchange services, as well as those individuals bona 
fides, correlating those payments with payments paid to accounts held with banks in 
another jurisdiction, and assessing the veracity of customer sales conducted over 
online messaging applications. Another difficulty and risk it would likely encounter is 
that the accounts involved in exchanging funds probably hold mixed funds paid in by 
a myriad of individuals for a variety of different purposes.
I have reviewed the information TSB holds, and having done so I understand why 
TSB is concerned about the funds it is holding. I have weighed its reasons against 
the information Miss H provided, and on balance I am persuaded TSB continuing to 
hold the funds is reasonable. Im satisfied its acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory responsibilities. 
TSB does not have to reveal the information its relying on or the full reasons for its 
decision. And I have treated that information and its reasons in confidence, which I 
am able to do under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) which govern my powers as 
an ombudsman.
Even if I had found TSB acted unfairly, I would not require TSB to make payments to 
compensate Miss Hs sister or Miss Hs husband, or to make amends for any 
consequential financial losses they may have experienced. I can only consider losses 
experienced directly by Miss H because she is the eligible complainant under DISP 
and only she had a valid customer relationship with TSB in relation to the account.
I am not directing TSB to returns the funds its holding to Miss H or to pay her or anyone else 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I have decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman