DRN-3724144
The complaint
Mr H complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society trading as Wesleyan (Wesleyan) mis-sold 
him a personal pension policy. He says that he was told when he bought the policy that hed 
be able to buy an annuity direct from Wesleyan. But hes since been told it no longer offers 
annuities so hell have to take one with another company. 
What happened
Mr H took out a personal pension policy with Wesleyan which began on 1 May 2002. At that 
time, the option to have an annuity with Wesleyan at retirement was still available.
Mr H said his father had previously had an annuity with Wesleyan. And that hed told 
Wesleyan when hed bought the policy that he also wanted an annuity when he retired.
In 2022, Mr H called Wesleyan to ask for an annuity. It told him it no longer offered them, but 
that it could help him find the best provider on the open market. And that thered be no fees 
to transfer to a different provider and buy an annuity. 
Mr H felt that his personal pension policy had been mis-sold, as hed been told that hed be 
able to get an annuity from Wesleyan - as his father had done - when hed bought it. So he 
complained to Wesleyan.  
Wesleyan issued its final response to the complaint in May 2022. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said that Mr H still had the option to purchase an annuity at retirement. 
But that although in previous years, he wouldve been able to do that with Wesleyan, it 
wasnt obliged to provide annuities.
Wesleyan said itd decided that it no longer wanted to offer annuities to its customers in 
2018. It said this had been a commercial decision as the result of regulatory changes at the 
time. And that it hadnt been able to offer customers the best possible rate for their annuity, 
so it believed it was in its customers best interests to seek an annuity from another provider.
Mr H was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
hed taken the policy out in 2002 on the understanding that hed get an annuity for life when 
he reached his chosen retirement age. He felt that Wesleyan had reneged on his policy. And 
that it was wrong that it could change his options. He said he hadnt been told about the 
change. Mr H said he wanted either an annuity with Wesleyan, or it to pay the costs he felt 
hed incur buying an annuity from another provider.
Our investigator considered whether the policy had been mis-sold in 2002. And if it was fair 
and reasonable for Wesleyan to decide to no longer offer annuities. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said Wesleyan had been correct to say it wasnt obliged to 
offer annuities. And although he acknowledged it wouldve been a shock for Mr H to discover 
he couldnt buy his annuity with Wesleyan, as he hadnt been told about the change, he felt 
there was no requirement for it to have done so. He also felt that it was reasonable for 
Wesleyan to have told Mr H about the change when he approached it near his retirement.
Our investigator also felt that as Wesleyan had explained that it could help Mr H find an 
annuity with another provider, and that it wouldnt charge a fee, itd acted fairly.  
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that it was perverse that he hadnt agreed 
hed been mis-sold. He felt Wesleyans actions had clearly been wrong. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.  here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Wesleyan hasnt 
done anything wrong. I know this will be disappointing to Mr H. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Ive seen no evidence that Wesleyan gave Mr H incorrect information at the time he bought 
his personal pension policy. I say this because Wesleyan did still offer annuities in 2002. 
I acknowledge that Wesleyan didnt inform Mr H in 2018 that itd decided to stop providing 
annuities. I understand that when Mr H found out about this decision in 2022, it wouldve 
been disappointing.  He wanted to take his annuity with Wesleyan, as his father had. But I 
dont think Wesleyan acted unfairly here. There was no requirement for it to have contacted 
Mr H directly in 2018 to make him aware of the change. Instead, I consider it acted 
reasonably when it told Mr H about the change in 2022, when he asked it about annuities. I 
say this because, even if Wesleyan had told Mr H about the change in 2018, his position 
wouldnt have changed. 
I also agree with Wesleyan that its not obliged to offer annuities. Its entitled to make 
commercial decisions about the products it sells. And, as our investigator said, as were not 
the regulator, we cant make a business change its mind about the way it runs its business.  
Since 2002, it's been a requirement for businesses to offer its customers the option to shop 
around to see if other providers could offer better annuity rates than they could. Wesleyan 
said that annuities were no longer available for Mr Hs type of plan because its annuity rates 
for those plans were lower than those available with other providers. 
I consider that if Wesleyan hadnt taken its decision to withdraw from the annuity market in 
2018, in light of its realisation that it could no longer offer its customers the best possible 
annuity rate, Mr H couldve ended up in a worse financial situation. I say this because Im 
satisfied based on Mr Hs testimony that he wouldve then bought his annuity through 
Wesleyan. And that annuity might well have been lower than one he couldve purchased on 
the open market, given Wesleyans rationale for leaving that market.
Mr Hs ideal resolution to this complaint would be either for Wesleyan to provide the annuity 
he wants or for it to cover his costs of obtaining that annuity elsewhere. As Ive noted above, 
we cant force Wesleyan to offer annuities again, as were not the regulator. Im also not 
persuaded there would be any costs in buying the annuity from another provider. Ive seen 
no evidence of a financial loss here.
I acknowledge that Mr H is extremely disappointed that he can no longer buy his annuity with 
Wesleyan, and I can see how strongly he feels about his complaint. But Ive found no 
evidence that Wesleyan acted incorrectly when it decided to stop offering annuities. I 
consider it took this decision fairly, and for a number of reasonable reasons, including a desire to ensure it acted in its customers best interests. Wesleyan made this change for all 
its customers, so it hasnt treated Mr H any differently to any of its other customers. 
Therefore Im not persuaded that Mr Hs personal pension policy was mis-sold. Im satisfied 
that Wesleyan has acted fairly. And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman