DRN-3504788
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined his application for a 
business account  which meant he couldnt then apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr D told us:
He held a personal account with Lloyds which he also used for his business 
transactions.
He applied three times for a business account with Lloyds as he wanted to apply for 
a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and he needed to open an account first.
His applications were all declined as the bank said he didnt meet its account criteria 
 but he believed he did. Lloyds gave no other reason for the decline decisions.
Lloyds told us:
At the time Mr D applied, the bank wasnt opening accounts for some business 
sectors, including limited companies.
When it had carried out its onboarding checks, it could see Mr D was a director of a 
limited company and therefore wasnt eligible to open a new business account. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that Mr Ds limited 
company was dormant and was, in any case, distinct from his sole trader business. And she 
said Lloyds hadnt given Mr D the opportunity to explain the position. But she said that Mr D 
could have looked elsewhere to apply for a BBL rather than just repeatedly apply to Lloyds 
at it had declined the applications. So she thought the bank should pay £300 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused to Mr D, from the banks limited decline responses which 
caused him to apply several times thinking it had made a mistake in its decisions. 
Lloyds accepted the investigators opinion, but Mr D didnt. He felt the banks actions had 
prevented him applying for the BBL Scheme as he wasnt able to apply through other 
lenders as he didnt meet their eligibility criteria, so he didnt think the compensation was 
enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed by either party that Lloyds made an error when reviewing Mr Ds business 
account applications. The crux of the complaint now lies on how the bank should put things 
right. 
Lloyds has explained that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it wasnt opening new business 
accounts for certain sectors or limited companies. The bank has explained that when it 
reviewed Mr Ds applications, it identified he was the director of a limited company and 
declined his applications on that basis. 
I think it was reasonable for the bank to decline the first application based on the information 
it found when conducting its checks. However, I dont think it was reasonable for Lloyds not 
to provide a reason for the decline to Mr D. I think its likely that had the bank told Mr D about 
the limited company issue when it declined the first application, he could have explained that 
the company was dormant. He could then have made an informed decision about whether to 
close the company before applying again. Or the bank couldve reviewed the application 
bearing in mind Mr Ds individual circumstances. Instead, he was caused inconvenience 
from making two further applications as he believed Lloyds had made a mistake when 
saying he didnt meet the eligibility criteria  when seemingly he did.
Mr D says that he did look to apply for a BBL with other lenders. However, he was unable to 
do so as they had restricted applications to their own customers, and therefore Lloyds 
prevented him from getting a BBL. Although Mr D has provided information showing why he 
wasnt eligible for a BBL with other lenders, I am also aware that some of these lenders were 
accepting applications from new customers. So Im not persuaded that Mr D wasnt able to 
apply for a BBL elsewhere before the Scheme deadline. I also cant say for sure whether or 
not Mr D would have been successful in his application for a BBL, as there could be any 
number of reasons that an application could be declined. So I cant say that Mr D wouldve 
obtained a BBL even if Lloyds had handled his applications better. 
However, I dont think Lloyds processed Mr Ds applications in a reasonable way and its 
clear the banks handling of the applications caused Mr D inconvenience - from having to 
apply for the BBL multiple times and chasing the bank due to what he felt was an error in its 
reasons for declining his applications. Therefore, to put things right I think Lloyds should pay 
Mr D £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr D £300 
for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman