DRN-2697379
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Loans.co.uk Ltd, (LCUK), mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance, (PPI), policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out a single premium PPI policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a 
personal secured loan. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Because LCUK 
disagreed the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Mrs B doesnt remember how the policy was sold. But LCUK has told us that the sale 
took place over the phone. But it no longer has any recording of the call or the phone 
script its representative would have had to follow.
Because Ive very little information about the sale Ive made my decision on what 
information I do have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Mrs B has told us that LCUK didnt give her any advice about taking the insurance. But any 
way it still had to give her clear, fair and not-misleading information about the PPI so that she 
could make an informed decision whether she wanted it. This, in particular, includes having 
made it clear that taking the policy wasnt a requirement to get the loan, but was optional. I 
havent been given anything from which I can be satisfied that LCUK did this. Im aware that 
the form of loan agreement, which LCUK has told us Mrs B would have had to sign, referred 
to Optional Insurance, but Mrs B wouldnt have received this until after she had already 
agreed to take the PPI over the phone. So, this doesnt change my decision.
This mean that Mrs B has lost out because I have nothing to show that she knew that she 
didnt have to take the PPI. So, she paid for it when she may not have wanted to.
Putting things right
Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been. 
She paid more than she should have each month and it cost her more to repay the loan than 
it would have. So she needs to get back the extra shes paid.
So, LCUK should:
work out and pay Mrs B the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would have paid without PPI;
work out and pay Mrs B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI;
add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs B paid from when she paid it until she 
gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year);
if Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, LCUK can deduct what Mrs B 
got from the amount due to her.
If LCUK considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I require 
Loans.co.uk Ltd to pay Mrs B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman