DRN-3709156
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn irresponsibly granted 
her a conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mrs H acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mrs H paid a deposit of £196 and was required to make 47 monthly repayments 
of around £276. The total repayable under the agreement was around £13,177.
Mrs H says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and verifying Mrs Hs 
income through the credit reference agencies and her payslips. It estimated Mrs Hs 
expenses using third party statistical data. It said its checks were proportionate and based 
these the agreement was affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs H didnt agree and said her and her partner had £29,000 of debt at the time of the 
finance application and had to take out a second mortgage at a high interest rate to clear the 
debts. She said our adjudicators view didnt take into account the cash payments she was 
making towards her debts or the costs of having five children. She said she had other 
complaints about irresponsible lending upheld. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
I note Mrs Hs comments about having other complaints upheld but we consider each case 
on its individual merits and my decision will be based on the unique circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mrs H about her income. I say this because it verified her income 
through the credit reference agencies and also received a recent payslip. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied on a 
copy of the credit file supplied by Mrs H. I think this gives a good indication of what 
Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application it shows that Mrs H didnt 
have any county court judgements or recent defaults (Moneybarns credit research identified 
a historic default) however it did show that Mrs H was in arrears on some of her accounts. I 
think this ought to have indicated that Mrs H had experienced financial issues previously and 
was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for 
Moneybarn to have verified Mrs Hs expenditure to ensure it had a thorough understanding 
of her financial circumstances before lending.
One of the ways that Moneybarn could have verified Mrs Hs expenditure was by reviewing 
bank statements. While Moneybarn wasnt required to request Mrs Hs bank statements, in 
the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed three months of statements which I think give a 
good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have found out had it completed 
proportionate checks. 
The statements show that Mrs Hs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was 
around £800. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs such as food, fuel, insurance and 
other credit commitments. Mrs Hs payslip showed her salary in January to be £1,642 and 
having looked at her bank statements these show an average salary over the three months 
leading up to the agreement of around £1,545. Additional to this, Mrs H was receiving child 
benefit totalling around £267 a month. As the repayments under the agreement were for 
around £276, I do not find that I can say that had further checks taken place then the 
agreement would have been found to be unaffordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded 
that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman