DRN-3466427
The complaint
Mr L, represented by Mr L2 and Mrs L, says Nationwide Building Society did not treat him 
and his parents fairly and appropriately when they visited a branch to make a cash 
withdrawal. 
What happened
On 15 January 2021 Mr L, and his representatives, went to a branch to withdraw £7,000 in 
cash. Mr L2 says Nationwide inappropriately asked about the purpose of the withdrawal in 
public; took too long and counted out the money three or four times; the manager did not 
observe social-distancing guidelines; and later lied about Mrs L being asked to leave the 
branch. The experience was very stressful for Mr L. Mr L2 is also unhappy about the 
weekend opening hours at one of the branches. He asks for compensation for the poor 
service, acknowledging that Nationwide has subsequently closed the familys accounts.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, she said Nationwide had followed 
its standard process for that value of cash withdrawal; the CCTV (which was no longer 
available) showed the familys branch visit was just less than 15 minutes which she felt was 
reasonable in the circumstances; and the transaction was completed at the counter in public 
as the meeting rooms werent in use due to social distancing guidelines in place at the time. 
She said Nationwide had acknowledged that when Mr L2 called to complain he was given 
incorrect advice about the withdrawal process, for this it had apologised. And she felt the 
societys explanation that its opening hours in a certain branch had been reduced to support 
employees during the pandemic was reasonable.
Mr L2 replied saying they didnt agree with this assessment, he doesnt feel Nationwide are 
being honest, particularly about the CCTV. He said the assessment favoured Nationwide. As 
an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to address Mr L2s concern that the investigators assessment showed bias. 
As an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumers or 
financial businesses - theres no benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the other.
Whilst I have considered all the comments Mr L2 has made during the investigation 
carefully, in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, I will focus and 
comment on those I find to be material to the outcome of the complaint. 
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont find that Nationwide acted inappropriately when it asked questions about the purpose 
of the withdrawal. The questions are to protect customers, and the terms of the account(s) 
allow it to request such information. I can understand Mr L and Mr L2 may have preferred to 
have this discussion in a private room, but the meeting rooms were not in use due to social 
distancing requirements. This is a reasonable.
The parties dispute how long the transaction took. The CCTV is no longer available  the 
societys policy is to retain recordings for 30 days. But I have found no evidence to suggest 
the statement Nationwide made in its final response letter - that it had reviewed the CCTV 
and the visit was just short of 15 minutes - to be untrue. I dont find this to be overly long in 
the circumstances.  I also find it was reasonable for Nationwide to count the notes until it 
was satisfied it was providing the correct amount. I have seen no evidence it was doing this 
for any other reason.
There has been some dispute as to whether Mrs L was asked to leave the branch. The 
manager confirms she was due to the number of customers allowed whilst social distancing 
was in place. Mr L2 says she left of her own accord and the bank is lying. The manager 
accepts it maybe Mrs L didnt hear the request, and was leaving anyway  but I dont need to 
make a finding on this point as it does not affect the outcome of the complaint.
Finally, with regards the reduced opening hours at a branch, I think Nationwides explanation 
 and decision  is fair. 
It follows I do not find Nationwide acted in error.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L2 and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman