DRN-3050609
The complaint
Mr E complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles didnt give him information about his 
account which led to adverse information being registered on his credit file.
What happened
Mr E says he was in financial difficulties and agreed a repayment plan with Marbles. He says 
Marbles didnt tell him that the account would close if the minimum payments were not made 
and that adverse information would be registered on his credit file. Mr E says had he been 
given that information then he could have made arrangements to make the payments and 
avoid the impact on his credit file. He would like this adverse information removed.
Marbles accepts it didnt specifically tell Mr E that his account would be closed if minimum 
payments were not met when he called it. But it says it told Mr E he could make additional 
payments if he wished and agreed a repayment plan with him of £9 a month which it says 
was the most its calculations said he could afford. Marbles says it sent required default 
letters and acted in line with agreed terms and conditions by closing the account and 
reporting that to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It has paid £120 compensation for 
the lack of clear information when Mr E called.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted Marbles ought to have been 
clearer in the information it gave him. The investigator thought Marbles told Mr E to ignore 
important letters and so recommended it pay a further £80 compensation as there were two 
calls in which clearer information could have been given. The investigator didnt think 
Marbles made a mistake by closing the account and thought it acted in line with account 
terms and conditions by doing so or that the outcome would have been different even if 
Marbles had been clearer.
Mr E says he could have made greater repayments if he knew what would happen and 
Marbles says the compensation paid is appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to that of the investigator and for 
similar reasons.
There is no dispute here that Marbles ought to have given Mr E far more clear information 
than it did and shouldnt have told him to ignore important regulatory letters. I have no doubt 
Mr E was caused inconvenience and distress in finding out what had taken place. And that 
he would have spent some time on two telephone calls to Marbles about this issue. I accept 
that Marbles could have answered some of Mr Es concerns during that second call but 
didnt do so. I appreciate Marbles has paid £120 compensation, but I agree with the 
investigator that amount doesnt fairly reflect the impact on Mr E. And I think Marbles should 
increase that award to a total of £200 which I think is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr E would like the adverse information removed from his credit file. But Im 
satisfied that it was made clear in the account terms and conditions and in various letters 
that Mr Es credit file could be affected. And that it ought to have been reasonably obvious 
that any repayment plan or failure to keep to such a plan would have an impact on a credit 
file. I dont think Mr E could have avoided any adverse information being registered on his 
credit file in these circumstances and can see he accepts he was in financial difficulties. For 
those reasons I cant fairly order Marbles to remove any adverse information from Mr Es 
credit file and think it is obliged to accurately report its customers account positions to the 
CRAs.  
Putting things right
Overall, I intend to order Marbles to increase its compensation award to £200 but cant fairly 
order it to amend Mr Es credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd trading as 
Marbles to pay Mr E a further £80 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman