DRN-2610820
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt treated her fairly following an incident that 
happened in branch while Ms M was present. 
What happened
Ms M says that in January 2020 she was in her local branch of Santander when there was 
an attempted armed robbery. She says this has had a serious impact on her and shes been 
on medication for stress and anxiety since the event. Shes now also receiving counselling 
for post-traumatic stress disorder. 
Ms M feels Santander has a duty of care towards its customers for what happened on its 
premises and is unhappy that its only contacted her once since the incident. She doesnt 
feel Santander has taken into account the impact this incident has had on her.
Santander said it understood that Ms M had been just outside the branch at the time of the 
attempted robbery but nevertheless, it acknowledged how upsetting this incident had been 
for Ms M and agreed it should have responded sooner when Ms M first contacted it in 
February 2020. However, the staff in branch had followed its internal policies for such 
incidents so it couldnt agree it had made a mistake. And it said it couldnt be responsible for 
the actions of criminals so it didnt accept Ms Ms complaint.
Our investigator said while he could see how distressed Ms M had been by what had 
happened, he couldnt agree Santander was responsible for events that were outside of its 
control. For that reason, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms M disagreed. She said, in summary, that although shed managed to get out of the 
branch during the robbery, shed still been seriously affected by what had happened. Shed 
now been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and said the incident had seriously 
impacted her health and wellbeing. She felt shed been treated unfairly and that Santander 
should, at least, have continued to contact her to see how she was doing. She asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M was present when an armed robbery took place at her local branch. I can understand 
how upsetting that was and Im sorry to see that Ms M is still suffering from the impact of 
what happened.
However, while I have every sympathy for the ongoing problems Ms Ms experiencing what 
happened was a criminal act and outside of Santanders control. For that reason, I dont 
think it would be fair to hold it responsible for the impact the situation has had or say it 
shouldve done more. 
Ive seen Ms M says Santander has failed in its duty of care towards her in that it hasnt 
offered any ongoing support, other than one phone call after the event. I appreciate Ms M 
feels Santander should have done more but Im satisfied it has followed its internal policies, 
including ensuring any customers or staff involved received appropriate medical attention 
where necessary and making sure their details were provided to the local police. After that 
its very much a matter for the local branch to decide how much contact it needs to make but 
I dont consider that Santander has any ongoing responsibility to maintain contact or provide 
support.
I realise this isnt the decision Ms M was hoping for but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
consider Santander has acted unfairly and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman