DRN-2826205
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, handled his mortgage 
application. 
What happened
Mr N applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with Halifax in November 2020.
Mr N has explained that he had bought the property at auction and committed to complete 
the purchase by 17 December 2020. 
On 27 November 2020 Halifax gave a decision in principal, indicating it would potentially be 
willing to lend. Mr N proceeded to make a full mortgage application and paid Halifax £200 for 
it to complete a valuation of the property.
On 15 December 2020, following the valuation, Halifax said it was not willing to lend, as the 
property did not meet its lending criteria as Mr N would not own the entirety of the freehold.
Mr N complained to Halifax. He said he had been clear from the outset about the type of the 
property and status of the freehold. So, he felt it shouldve told him before he made a full 
application it wouldnt have been acceptable. He said he had since managed to get a 
mortgage with another lender but had incurred fees for doing so at short notice. He also said 
hed had to pay penalty fees to the vendor for having to delay the completion of the 
purchase, which he felt Halifax should cover.
Halifax agreed that it had made an error. It said its mortgage adviser shouldve realised 
sooner that the property would fall outside of its lending criteria. Halifax refunded the £200 
valuation fee to Mr N as it acknowledged that he wouldnt have paid this without its error. It 
also offered him £250 for the upset caused. But it didnt agree to pay any additional costs 
incurred as Mr N had committed to the deadline and these costs without a mortgage offer.
Unhappy with this response, Mr N asked our service to consider his complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into things. He felt that the offer already made by Halifax was fair, noting 
that there was always a risk of Mr N incurring additional costs as a result of agreeing to a 
completion date before a formal offer was made.
Mr N acknowledged that there was always a risk to him in terms of how the transaction had 
been conducted. But he still felt that Halifax had made an error and that it should cover the 
costs incurred. So, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a 
result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has accepted that it made an error here. It accepts it shouldve realised at the point 
the full application was made that the property Mr N was buying would not be considered 
suitable, according to its lending criteria. And Mr N shouldve been made aware of this  and 
if he had, it is unlikely a full application wouldve been made. So as Halifax accepts an error 
was made, what is left for me to decide is what a fair way to put things right is.
Halifax has offered to refund the valuation fee paid to it, £200, as without its error the 
valuation would not have been instructed. And I think that is reasonable.
Mr N says Halifax should meet the additional costs he incurred as a result of having to apply 
to a new lender and from having to postpone completion with the vendor. He has provided 
evidence of those costs.
Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Mr Ns application, specifically the property 
to be used as security, fell outside of those criteria. So, it hasnt done anything wrong by 
declining the application  although it accepts it shouldve done so sooner. With that in mind, 
Mr N would always have needed to apply to a different lender and incur the relevant costs, in 
order to complete the purchase. And hed already committed to the purchase before 
applying to Halifax. So, I dont think itd be fair for Halifax to meet those costs as they would 
always have been incurred.
Turning to the fees incurred by Mr N for completing the purchase late, Mr N committed to the 
completion date before applying for a mortgage with Halifax. So, there was always a risk that 
a mortgage would not be agreed in time  something he has acknowledged. And while 
Halifax gave Mr N a decision in principle, this is not a commitment to lend, and didnt include 
details of the property to be mortgaged. Rather it is a high level, initial indication of what a 
lender may be willing to provide, subject to a full application being considered. And indeed, 
the decision in principle included a warning against entering into a binding commitment to 
buy without a mortgage offer. 
Without the error by Halifax, I agree Mr N couldve applied to a different lender sooner. But 
although I can see matters did progress quickly with his chosen alternative lender after 
Halifax rejected his application, they did still take several weeks. And even if hed applied 
elsewhere sooner, there could still have been delays. So, even if the application had been 
made sooner, the original completion deadline could still have been missed and the fees 
incurred. So, although I know Mr N feels strongly about this, I dont think itd be fair for me to 
require Halifax to meet the additional costs incurred.
Halifax has offered £250 for the upset caused to Mr N as a result of it raising his 
expectations by not informing him sooner that the application fell outside of its lending 
criteria. Mr N says that does not go far enough to cover the stress caused in dealing with this 
matter with Halifax  in particular the length of time he was dealing with things. 
I dont doubt that this was a stressful time for Mr N  buying a property, even on a buy-to-let 
basis, usually is. But while I agree that what happened was upsetting, I am conscious that it 
was 18 days between his full application being made and Halifax explaining it couldnt lend. 
Mortgage applications can often take significantly longer, so I think Halifax has dealt with 
matters promptly. And although Mr N was in a hurry to meet a completion deadline, this was 
again something he had committed to. So, taking all the circumstances into account, I think 
the offer already made by Halifax is fair and I dont intend to require it to do more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint, as I think the offer already 
made by the business is a fair way to resolve things.
If it hasnt already done so Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should refund Mr N the 
£200 valuation fee and pay him the £250 it offered previously for the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman