DRN-1501682
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1995.  
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint. This is because the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs K, about the 
exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions, was probably not as clear as it should have 
been. I say this because Ive looked at the policy information that was probably used at the 
time, and this doesnt clearly highlight or explain the exclusion. I think this would have 
mattered to Mr and Mrs K because Mrs K had an inherited medical condition which has a 
number of potential complications. There was a good chance this would have led to her 
needing to claim, but its likely that claim wouldnt then have been paid. 
Nationwide has offered to pay back 50% of the premiums as the policy was of limited use to 
Mrs K. However I think it should pay back all the premiums. Mr K is equally likely to have 
been affected financially if Mrs K was unable to make a claim. And I think it likely they would 
have decided not to take PPI at all with Nationwide, if theyd understood the restrictions. 
I think Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result of Nationwide's failings in this case  I dont 
think theyd have taken out the policy if theyd been properly informed.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs K in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs K the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.If Mr and Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from 
this interest. Nationwide must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs K compensation in accordance with 
the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman