DRN-3859579
The complaint
Mr H complains Wise Payments Limited havent honoured a cashback promotion when 
using his Wise card.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr H was sent a promotion from Wise in connection with a holiday 
company Ill refer to as B, which said get up to 15% cashback on any destination worldwide 
if booking before 19 December 2021.
Mr H did book a holiday before that date  paying €20 on his Wise card, and €6,632.80 on a 
credit card he held with a different company. But, he didnt get the 15% cashback, as Wise 
said the terms and conditions required him to use his Wise card to pay for the booking in full. 
So, Mr H complained.
Wise replied and said when a customer agrees to use their service they agree to the terms 
and conditions. They said when a promotion is offered, using another companys card will 
automatically disqualify the customer for receipt of any benefits. Wise added the terms and 
conditions of the promotion arent visible on the document Mr H had given them, but Wise 
provided this promotion to him and like any other promotion its expected hed have used his 
Wise card only. Overall, Wise said they wouldnt be giving Mr H the 15% cashback.
Unhappy with this, Mr H asked us to look into things, saying there were no terms that 
showed he had to use his Wise card to pay for the booking in full  and couldnt have done 
so anyway as he didnt have enough funds on his card.  
One of our Investigators looked into things but decided Mr H would have been directed to a 
webpage which said he needed to pay in full with his Wise card to get the cashback, so she 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt accept this, in summary he said:
On 15 November 2021 he received an email about a promotion with B for up to 15% 
cashback  and there were no terms and conditions on this email.
On 18 November 2021 he clicked on this and went straight to Bs webpage. He made 
the booking, and this said he could pay with various kinds of cards. It didnt say he 
had to pay with his Wise card. He complied with the relevant terms, but Wise wont 
honour the cashback.
Wise has produced the terms and conditions, but theyre only on Wises website, not 
Bs which is where he was taken to  so he was never aware of Wises terms and 
conditions.
The current link shows the terms and conditions, but they werent showing when he 
did his booking. 
Hes provided evidence of what he saw on 15 and 18 November, but Wise havent 
been able to produce anything to counter this.
So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wise are telling us when Mr H would have gone through to book hed have been told about 
the terms and conditions. Mr H says he was never made aware of them.
Where there is incomplete or conflicting information, as there is here, then I have to decide 
what I think is more likely than not  taking into account the information I do have.
Having considered things, I do think its more likely than not Wise made Mr H aware of the 
terms and conditions. I say that because looking at the web pages now they show the terms 
and conditions. And, while I accept things can change, it seems unlikely to me Wise wouldnt 
have included this information at the time. There is also the ability to look back historically at 
web pages. Mr H says this wouldnt have shown the terms and conditions, but again I think 
its likely the page Mr H was taken to would have shown them.
I should explain as well though, even if I thought the terms and conditions werent showing, I 
dont think this would have changed my view on the complaint.
I say that because Mr H has also said he didnt have enough funds in his Wise account to 
complete the booking. So, as he didnt have enough funds, then it seems likely hed never 
have been eligible for the cashback offer even if there was clear evidence the terms were 
available to him.
In addition, Mr H paid €20 towards the cost of the holiday on his Wise card  but €6,632.80 
on a different card. Its unclear to me why Mr H would have done that, if he didnt think he at 
least needed to pay some of the cost of the holiday on his card. And, if he had that thought  
which I think the €20 does suggest  then it could reasonably suggest an awareness that not 
paying for the whole holiday on his card may present an issue.
Regardless though, as Ive set out above I think its more likely than not Wise did display the 
relevant terms and conditions for Mr H to be aware of them  so I wont be requiring them to 
pay the 15% cashback.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman