DRN-4174122
The complaint
A company that I will refer to as M complains about the decision of 
ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft to decline its business interruption insurance claim 
made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic
What happened
The following is intended only as brief summary of events. Additionally, whilst a number of 
third parties have been involved in the correspondence and events, for the sake of simplicity, 
I have just referred to M and ERGO.
M operates as a commercial landlord and held industry specific commercial insurance 
policies underwritten by ERGO. The policy wordings were the same but related to two 
separate locations. Whilst this means this complaint relates to two separate decisions of 
ERGO, and so might normally be considered by the Ombudsman Service as two separate 
complaints, given the overall circumstances I am dealing with this as one matter.
The policies included cover for loss of rent. Following the government-imposed restrictions 
introduced in March 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, M contacted ERGO to 
claim for loss of rent. It is not necessary for the purposes of this decision to set out the full 
timeline here. Ultimately though, ERGO said that the loss of rent needed to be caused by 
damage to the rented properties that meant rent was not contractually payable. ERGO 
considered that there was no contractual right for the tenants not to pay rent in the 
circumstances, as there had been no damage.
M complained about this decision, saying that the relevant tenancy agreements required the 
tenants to pay for the insurance, so they were entitled to benefit from the policy in the 
circumstances. That no voluntary agreement was entered with the tenants allowing for the 
suspension of rent. And that instead an insured event had occurred allowing for rent to be 
suspended as per the terms of the tenancy agreement.
M brought its complaint to the Ombudsman Service, but our Investigator did not think it 
should be upheld. He felt that it was Ms business of renting the properties that was insured 
by the policies and that this had not been interrupted. He considered that the tenancy 
agreement only allowed for the suspension of rent where there was physical damage and 
that this had not happened in the circumstances. 
M remained unsatisfied and its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the situation M finds itself in, I wont be 
upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
Ms policies provide cover for loss of rent. Cover is in the first instance provided, in respect 
of any interruption or interference with the Business occurring during the Period of Insurance 
at the Premises and caused by any of the following Perils if shown as operative in the 
Schedule. The Perils that are then listed relate to situations where damage has been 
caused to the insured property and include events such as flood, fire, etc. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led to an interruption of Ms business. So, I 
dont think the circumstances fall into this initial cover. 
The policies do include a number of extensions to this cover though. One of these is in the 
Infectious Diseases clause, which provides cover for loss of rent where the insured business 
has been interrupted following the occurrence of a Notifiable Disease within a radius of 25 
miles of the premises.
M says that there are two questions that need to be asked in relation to this:
1. Has there been a Notifiable Disease within a 25 mile radius?
2. Has the insured suffered a loss?
It is not disputed that COVID-19 is a Notifiable Disease as defined by the policies. Nor that 
this likely occurred within a radius of 25 miles of the premises. M has also set out that it has 
suffered a loss. 
However, there is a further question that needs to be asked. This is whether the loss is an 
insured loss. The loss that is insured is the loss of rent due to an interruption of Ms 
business. Ms business is that of renting property, and it this that needs to be interrupted. 
The tenants are required to pay Insurance Rent to M, but this does not mean that they 
themselves are insured. The policies are between M and ERGO, and do not provide any 
direct protection to Ms tenants. They merely provide (as far as is relevant) cover to M for 
any insured loss of rent. In order for the loss of rent to be insured, one of the insured events 
in the policy must have taken place and this must have led to an interruption in Ms ability to 
rent the premises. 
There would be an interruption to Ms business of renting the premises where there was a 
contractual right for the tenant not to pay rent. Whether or not rent is payable is set out in the 
tenancy agreements between M and the tenants. Copies of these have been provided, and 
both include the following suspension of rent clause:
If the Building is damaged or destroyed by an Insured Risk so as to make the 
Property unfit for occupation and use or incapable of access, then payment of the 
Annual Rent, or a fair proportion of it according the nature and extent of the damage, 
shall be suspended until the Building has been reinstated so as to make the Property 
fit for occupation and use and capable of access
M has said that an event listed in the policy has taken place, i.e. that a notifiable disease has 
occurred in the vicinity of the premises. The tenancy agreement(s) define Insured Risk with a 
list of specific events, such as fire or flood. But also says this includes any other risks against 
which the landlord decides to insure against. M, as landlord, has taken out insurance which 
provides cover in relation to disease. 
However, I do not consider this is something that means rent is not payable. As above, the 
suspension of rent clause clearly says that it is only where the building has been damaged 
or destroyed that the requirement to pay rent is suspended. And the occurrence of 
COVID-19 has not caused any damage or destruction to the building(s). I am required to consider each complaint on its own circumstances. But this includes taking 
into account relevant law. I consider a couple of court judgments to be of particular 
relevance; Commerz Real Investmentgesellschaft MBH v TFS Stores Ltd [2021] EWHC 863 
(Ch) and Bank of New York Mellon (International) Ltd v Cine-UK Ltd [2022] EWCA Civ 1021. 
Both ERGO and our Investigator have also referred to these previously.
These judgments considered whether rent was due from businesses which were interrupted 
due to the pandemic. And considered tenancy agreements with similar clauses to that 
above. The courts found that the suspension of rent (rent cesser) clauses only applied where 
there was physical damage. And that the relevant insurance the landlords had only provided 
cover for loss of rent to the landlord where the tenant was not legally obliged to pay the rent, 
rather than where the tenant chose not to pay. Whilst these judgments were decided on their 
own facts, as I say, I am required to take into account relevant law and I consider that the 
same principles apply here.
From a practical point of view, it would make sense that a landlord need only to provide for 
rent to be suspended where there was an event within the control of the landlord to resolve. 
For example, if the property is damaged by a flood, it would be for the landlord to restore the 
property to an appropriate condition and until this is done it would not be appropriate for 
them to charge rent. It is for the landlord to provide the property in an appropriate material 
condition. However, where an event has taken place over which the landlord has no control 
and which did not impact the material condition of the property, such as the 
government-imposed restrictions, it would not appear reasonable for a tenant to hold the 
landlord responsible for resolving this, and rent would remain payable. It would be for the 
tenant to take out their own insurance against such events happening.
Similarly, I note that M has referred to there being a covenant in the tenancy agreements 
relating to quiet enjoyment. However, this only relates to actions of M as the landlord or 
anyone acting on their behalf. It would not make practical sense for a landlord to guarantee 
quiet enjoyment regardless of the cause of disturbance. 
Given the courts determined that the terms in tenancy agreements of the form set out above 
required there to have been damage, and there was no damage in the circumstances of Ms 
claim, I am satisfied that there was not an insured interruption to Ms business. Rent would 
have continued to be contractually payable, so the business of renting the property was not 
interrupted. It follows that Ms losses were not due to an insured event. And that ERGO 
acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. 
I know this decision will be disappointing for M and its directors, but I hope Ive provided 
them with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances 
of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman