DRN-3266264
The complaint
Mr B complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr B was given loans by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Loan Loan start 
dateLoan status Loan 
amountTotal 
amount 
payableMonthly 
paymentsTerm
1 4/1/2018 Paid by loan 2 £1,000 £1,622.34 £90.13 18 
months
2 9/10/2018 19/6/2020 £1,321.88 £2,215.80 £123.10 18 
Months
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and didnt think that 118 118 Money 
shouldve provided either of the loans to Mr B. Our adjudicator recommended upholding the 
complaint and set out the steps 118 118 Money needed to take to put things right. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that there was nothing 
on the credit file it obtained that would have triggered it to complete more checks.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money asked Mr B about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks. 
118 118 Money was satisfied that its income and expenditure assessment showed that Mr B 
should be able to make the repayments on his 118 118 Money loan out of his disposable 
income after paying his other monthly costs. So 118 118 Money felt this loan was affordable 
for Mr B.
But like our adjudicator, I dont think 118 118 Money properly took into account the 
information it had gathered about Mr Bs overall financial situation or the likelihood of him 
being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think 118 118 Money made a 
fair lending decision when it lent to Mr B based on the information it had gathered.
Contrary to information Mr B had declared, its credit checks showed he was paying 
more than hed declared towards his existing credit commitments.
As well as this, 118 118 Money understood that Mr Bs monthly income was around £1,800 
after checking this electronically. So it was aware from its credit checks that the total credit 
repayments he needed to make when he took out this loan took his debt servicing costs to 
around £644 for his existing loans and his outstanding credit card debt. This was more than 
a third of his take home pay and I think this level of debt relative to his income was a clear 
warning sign that Mr B was potentially already facing financial difficulty. 
And I think that concern is borne out by other information 118 118 Money could see which 
showed he had used payday and unsecured loans previously, repaying the last one just 
6 months or so before applying for this loan. I dont think anything Mr B had told 118 118 
Money was enough to explain his apparent need for expensive credit of this sort  118 118 
Money hasnt shown me it asked about this or that it knew how Mr B intended to use the 
loan. 
I think this shouldve prompted the lender to do more in-depth checks because it didnt look 
like 118 118 Money had a proper understanding of Mr Bs financial situation. So, Ive looked 
at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bank statements provided by Mr B are a useful guide to understanding his overall financial 
situation at the time. 
These show that in addition to the two loans that 118 118 Money was aware of, and the 
credit cards it had seen in its credit checks, Mr B was also paying for other items of credit 
and making regular payments through a debt collection agency. 
With the repayment for this loan as well, Mr B was committed to spending such a significant 
proportion of his income just on servicing debt that there was a serious risk he wouldnt be 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again during the loan term. 
To my mind, if 118 118 Money had done a proportionate check it shouldve realised that this 
wasnt a sustainably affordable position for Mr B and it shouldnt have provided this loan. Mr B took out loan 2 and used this to repay the balance owing on loan 1 and provide an 
extra £600 cash. 118 118 Money carried out similar checks for this loan and it could see that 
his income and declared expenditure was similar. It also saw that since hed taken out 
loan 1, Mr B had opened two more large unsecured loans with other lenders and his total 
indebtedness had increased by around 20% in the nine months or so since hed taken out 
loan 1. 
I think this ought to have prompted 118 118 Money to do more in-depth checks before 
agreeing to provide this loan as there was a real risk that it would add to his escalating levels 
of debt. Had it done so, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that Mr B was in control of his 
finances. He was still paying outstanding debt through a debt collection agency and his 
spending on credit was now an even bigger proportion of his take home pay, which 118 118 
Money shouldve realised was not likely to be sustainable at that level. 
So I dont think it shouldve provided either of these loans. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and 118 118 Money needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that lending  but its unfair to expect him to repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed. 
I understand the loans are repaid so 118 118 Money should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of being given both 
the loans. The payments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
whilst its fair that Mr Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about loans that were unfairly provided. So 118 118 Money should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding both the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 
118 118 Money must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to 
put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman