DRN-4038185
The complaint
Miss K complains about Santander UK Plc (Santander). She says that Santander didnt do 
enough to protect her when she became the victim of a Flight scam and would like it to 
repay her the money she has lost as a result.
What happened
In 2022, Miss K bought flights with a company called Love Holidays. When she received the 
flight confirmation, she discovered that the passenger details were incorrect.
Eventually, Miss K contacted what she thought was the airline using a number she found 
online. She was told that she had to book new flights and she would be refunded the original 
ones that she had purchased.
Miss Ks Santander Credit card was used to pay £3,426 across two payments for the 
supposed flights. 
However, the agent was actually a scammer, and used Miss Ks credit card to purchase 
separate flights for other individuals.
Miss K realised something was wrong when she noticed that the payments were to Net 
flights not Love Holidays and that when she contacted the airline again using different 
contact details, she found out that it had not received a payment from Miss K.
Miss K made a complaint to Santander who asked Miss K for details of what happened in 
order to raise a chargeback. Miss K says she returned the requested information, Santander 
said that Miss K did not provide enough information by the 120-day chargeback deadline. 
So, Santander declined to raise a chargeback, it also declined Miss Ks Section 75 claim.
Unhappy, Miss K brought her complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things 
but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss K remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator. I know that this will be very disappointing for Miss K, and I can understand 
that the whole episode has been deeply distressing for her.
It isnt in dispute that Miss K has been the victim of a scam and has lost money as a result  
but I need to decide if the loss she suffered could have been prevented by Santander  and 
Im afraid that I dont think that Santander could have prevented what happened here. Ill 
explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss K isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. But I am satisfied that 
Miss K did authorise the payments  she provided her card details over the phone to the 
scammer.
While I understand that Miss K didnt intend for the payments to be used as part of a flight 
scam and was tricked by the scammer, this doesnt change the fact that she authorised the 
payments in the first instance, and businesses are generally expected to act on their 
customers instructions.
That said, there are some circumstances where a business should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander should 
fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Santander didnt contact Miss K about any of the payments that she made  but I dont think 
that it needed to. The payments were made to a genuine flight provider, and the amounts 
that were paid were not unusual for the type of transaction that was being made. And even if 
Santander had contacted Miss K  I still dont think that the scam would have been 
uncovered. Miss K had located the number for what she thought was the airline herself, and 
knew she was making payments for flights. So had Santander questioned her about it, I 
dont think that it would have had any concerns about what Miss K was doing. So, I dont 
think it missed an opportunity to prevent the loss.
In relation to recovering the transactions I have considered if Santander has done enough in 
relation to this matter. 
ChargebackChargeback isnt a legal right or a guaranteed way of getting a refund. But it can offer a way 
to informally resolve disputes between merchants and cardholders. The rules that apply are 
set by the card scheme, and there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
Banks must comply with those rules before attempting a chargeback on behalf of their 
customer. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (in this case Santander) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting - or choosing not to present - a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder (in this case Miss K).
In this instance I am not persuaded, albeit on balance that Miss K provided enough evidence 
to support her claim before the 120-day deadline for a chargeback so I dont think that 
Santander did anything wrong in not pursuing the chargeback. I note Miss Ks comments 
that she did send the evidence to Santander but there is not enough for me to say that the 
evidence was actually received. Moreover, even if Miss K did submit all the evidence that 
she has now provided I am not persuaded that a chargeback would have been successful. 
I say this because Miss K wouldve only had prospects of a chargeback succeeding in these 
circumstances if it could be shown that Net Flights failed to provide the goods/services paid 
for or that they had been misrepresented to the end recipient, which in this case is not Miss 
K but the scammer. But there is no evidence that the goods/services paid for were not 
ultimately provided/were misrepresented to the end recipient (in this case the scammer), it 
seems there would be little prospect of Santander being able to recover Miss Ks money 
through a chargeback claim even had Miss K supplied all the information prior to the 120-
day deadline.
Section 75
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. Section 75 will only apply 
when there is a direct relationship between the debtor, creditor and the supplier (in this case, 
Miss K, Santander and the scammer respectively). 
From what Ive considered, Im not persuaded that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship exists in this case. I say this because Miss Ks payment were not made directly 
to the scammer, but to Net Flights. Consequently, this breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain. Net Flights hasnt breached its contract with Miss K or misrepresented the service it 
provides.
I am very sorry for the situation Miss K now finds herself in. She has been the victim of a 
cruel scam and has lost a lot of money as a result. But this loss was caused by the 
scammers themselves  and not Santander.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman