DRN-4317321
The complaint
Mr F complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Ltd (Hiscox) unfairly declined a claim made 
against his insurance policy after his bicycle was stolen.
What happened
In April 2023 Mr F said his bicycle was stolen from his locked garage. He reported the theft 
to the police and claimed for the loss against his cycle insurance with Hiscox. But Hiscox 
declined his claim. Mr F complained to them.
Hiscox said they declined Mr Fs claim under the exclusion that the theft wasnt as a direct 
result of violent and forced entry or exit from his garage.
Mr F wasnt happy with Hiscox response, he said there were ways of getting into his garage 
that wouldnt show any visible damage. And gave the examples of the use of an electronic 
hacking device or by the insertion of a metal coat hanger. He referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said that Hiscox hadnt acted unfairly by relying on the exclusion to decline 
Mr Fs claim.
Mr F didnt agree, he said that his garage most likely was opened with the use of an 
electronic device, which Mr F considered a forced entry. He asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration at the situation he is in as hes found himself not covered 
for a loss of over £3,000. I know this will disappoint Mr F but Im not upholding his complaint. 
Ill explain why.
For an insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid  
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only damage or loss caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the 
policy will be covered. If the damage or loss can be shown to be caused by such an event, 
then the insurer must pay the claim unless theyre able to rely on one of the policy 
exclusions to decline it. And in this case the event covered under the policy is theft, but 
Hiscox has relied on one of the policy exclusions to decline the claim. 
The exclusion in the policy that Hiscox has relied on says:
the cycle and accessories are contained within a lockable outbuilding or garage which is 
within the boundaries of your private dwelling and the normal security protections are fully 
operative and in force and the theft Is a direct result of violent and forcible entry to or exit 
from the outbuilding or garage by the thieves 
Hiscox said the theft wasnt a direct result of violent and forced entry or exit. Mr F has given 
a couple of examples as to how a garage door can be opened, one by prying open the 
garage door with a wire coat hanger, the other by means of an electronic device.  And its this 
that Mr F has relied on to explain how his bicycle was taken from his garage, which he says 
shows the exclusion has been unfairly applied.
Some insurance policies simply cover theft, some only cover theft if force or violence has 
been used to gain access to or exit from the property and some only cover theft if force and 
violence has been used to gain access to or exit from the property. 
Ive considered the terms of the contract of insurance Mr F had with Hiscox. And I can see 
the policy term is violent and forced
The exclusion term relied on by Hiscox is intended to make sure the insurer only has to pay 
claims where a policyholders property has obviously been broken into. Insurers use this 
term to avoid the risk of paying claims where a theft has occurred as a result of the 
policyholder not properly securing the property for example, where a door or window has 
been left open, allowing the thief to get in and out without having to actually break into the 
property or cause any damage.
The courts have considered the question of what constitutes forced and violent entry in a 
number of cases  and Ive reviewed the relevant case law. One important judgement said 
both force and violence could be involved where entry was gained by the exercise of force 
in a manner that was not customary in order to overcome the resistance of the usual 
fastenings and protections in the premises.
So, while I understand its plausible for undetectable methods to be used to open a garage 
door. The crucial point will be the theft will need to be consistent with evidence to show that 
security systems have been overcome by unnatural means.
Its not unusual for me to need to decide a case where its simply not possible to know 
exactly what happened. While I dont think its for Mr F to prove his garage was broken into 
using force and violence. The absence of this evidence doesnt make it unreasonable for 
Hiscox to assess the claim based on the evidence they had. So, Ive considered whether  
their assessment of Mr Fs claim based on the evidence they had was unfair.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr F but I dont think it was as unfortunately, I havent 
seen anything that would corroborate Mr Fs suggested methods of entry into his garage. I 
can see that Mr F reported the loss of his bicycle to the police and hes provided a crime 
reference number. But I cant see that the police visited Mr Fs property or that they did a 
police report. And so havent commented on the likelihood of these methods being the cause 
of the break-in.
Mr Fs testimony is that there had been a spate of break-ins to garages and outbuildings in 
his area, and that a neighbours garage had been broken into. While this may show that its 
more than likely his bicycle was stolen, I havent seen any evidence that shows Mr Fs 
suggested methods used to gain entry into his garage were the likely method used at the 
other break-ins. 
There isnt any detectable damage or other evidence to show how thieves got into Mr Fs 
garage. And so based on the evidence Hiscox considered I dont think that force and 
violence was evident. So, I cant see how Hiscox could have reached a conclusion other 
than that force and violence wasnt used. So, I dont think Hiscox has acted unfairly.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman