DRN-4323357
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited withdrew £1,000 from his fixed rate bond 
without permission.
What happened
Mr W opened a two year fixed rate bond with Shawbrook on 23 December 2022. Mr W made 
arrangements for his existing savings provider (H) to transfer £85,000 to Shawbrook. Mr W 
has explained that H made an error with the account number used when sending the funds 
to Shawbrook. On 11 January 2023 H sent a request for the funds to be send back in full. 
Shawbrook didnt send the funds back and placed them into Mr Ws new two year fixed rate 
bond. 
On 25 January 2023 £1,000 was take from Mr Ws account by Shawbrook. Shawbrook says 
it took that step after its intermediary bank received notice from H that it had only meant to 
send £84,000 for Mr W on 23 December 2022. 
Mr W went on to contact both Shawbrook and H to find out what had happened. Mr W 
complained to both. H responded and advised it hadnt made a request to recall £1,000 of 
the £85,000 Mr W asked it to send. And there was no evidence that £1,000 had been 
returned to accounts Mr W holds with H. Shawbrook said it had acted in line with instructions 
it received from H. 
Mr W referred his complaints about both H and Shawbrook to this service and they were 
reviewed by an investigator. During the investigation into Hs actions, the investigator asked 
it to confirm whether the recall request for £1,000 related to Mr Ws account. H confirmed the 
recall request Shawbrook used to debit Mr Ws account related to another customer and 
transfer it had sent. 
The investigator reviewed Shawbrooks evidence but didnt think it had shown that funds 
were legitimately withdrawn from Mr Ws account. The investigator asked Shawbrook to 
refund the £1,000 it took and recreate the account to refund any missed interest he wouldve 
received. They also asked Shawbrook to pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Shawbrook asked to appeal and reiterated it had followed Hs instruction to debit Mr Ws 
account for £1,000. As Shawbrook asked to appeal, Mr Ws case has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Shawbrook says it was acting on Hs instructions when it took £1,000 from Mr Ws bond on 
25 January 2023. But in response to the investigator, Shawbrook sent copies of internal 
emails sent between staff. The emails say H first requested a full refund of £85,000 on 11 
January 2023 which was declined. But Shawbrook says another request was received on 17 
April 2023 asking for £1,000 be sent back to H. But that doesnt tally with the date of the 
actual withdrawal, which was around three months earlier on 25 January 2023. 
I think its fair to add that the investigator contacted H when reviewing Mr Ws other 
complaint. And H specifically confirmed that the recall request Shawbrook says related to Mr 
Ws fixed rate bond actually related to another customer and transfer. 
Ive reviewed all the evidence supplied by Shawbrook but havent been able to draw the 
conclusion that it received an instruction to return £1,000 to H on Mr Ws behalf in January 
2023. Im satisfied the information available shows Mr W has lost £1,000 as a result of the 
withdrawal Shawbrook made on 25 January 2023 and I think the fairest way to resolve his 
complaint is for the payment to be refunded. In addition, I agree with the investigator that 
Shawbrook should reapply the £1,000 as at 25 January 2023 and recreate Mr Ws account 
to ensure he receives the interest payments that wouldve been paid on the full balance of 
£85,050.  
Im satisfied the issues raised have caused Mr W a lot of trouble and upset. Its clear Mr W 
has proactively tried to find out what happened to his money with both Shawbrook and H. 
And its clear to me that the issues raised have taken a lot of Mr Ws time and caused a 
reasonably level of distress and inconvenience. So, Im also telling Shawbrook to pay Mr W 
£300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to settle 
as follows: 
- Refund the £1,000 to Mr Ws fixed rate bond as at 25 January 2023
- Recreate the account so that missed interest payments Mr W wouldve received on 
the full balance are paid to him
- Pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman