DRN-2027353
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc put a block on his Invest Direct account when it 
shouldnt have done.
What happened
Mr R has an Invest Direct share dealing account with HSBC through which he has carried 
out unadvised share sales and purchases for some time. The share dealing account worked 
together with a current account through which payments and receipts for trades were made.
In November 2019 Mr R went above his agreed overdraft limit for his current account which 
meant he was in default of the terms and conditions of the Invest Direct account. This led to 
HSBC suspending his account on 29 November 2019, so he was unable to carry out trades.
Mr R unsuccessfully attempted to sell some shares through his Invest Direct account on 29 
November 2019. He tried to log onto his account on 2 December 2019 but still couldnt 
access his account to sell shares. On 3 December 2019 he spoke to HSBC and was told 
that his Invest Direct account had been blocked since 29 November 2019. 
He has said he wanted to sell some of his shares to help address the issue, but HSBC 
wouldnt unblock the account to allow him to do so. It then proceeded with the sale of some 
his shares a few days later when the sale price had gone down.
HSBC didnt uphold his complaint. It said the block on Mr Rs account was as a result of the 
significant debit balance on his current account. It said it had been contacting him over the 
past few months about the transactions he was making but hadnt been able to reach him. 
It said it had written to him and asked him to rectify the overdrawn position and that if this 
arose again it would either suspend or cancel his Invest Direct facility. It said as it didnt hear 
from Mr R it put a block on the account and that it took steps to force sale of some of his 
shares to help repay the excessive debit balance. It said this was put on hold as a result of 
the complaint but then went ahead on 9 December 2019 which raised £4434.50.
Mr R didnt agree with HSBCs response. He said that he received a secure message on 18 
November 2019 asking him to ring but that this didnt indicate there was any urgency. He 
said he was not warned they would put a block on his account and didnt allow enough time 
between the secure message and the block being put in place on 29 November 2019. He 
said it didnt warn him they were going to proceed with a forced sale of shares on 9 
December 2019. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said HSBCs terms and conditions meant they could suspend Mr Rs account if he was over 
his overdraft limit. He acknowledged Mr R had difficulty getting hold of HSBC on the phone 
but said it was the responsibility of the customer to keep to the terms and conditions, not for 
the business to tell them when they are in breach.
The investigator said it wouldve been reasonable for Mr R to make sure he spoke to HSBC 
in response to the secure message of 18 November 2019, even though there were long 
waiting times to get through on the telephone.
He acknowledged that Mr R had said the letters HSBC sent by post werent received in good 
time, but he said it had done nothing wrong in sending these by post as this was something 
it was required to do from a regulatory point of view.
In response Mr R said that he accepted he was in breach of the terms of his account, but the 
substance of his complaint is about what HSBC then did. He made the following key points 
about its actions:
HSBC didnt fulfil its commitment to use My Documents to communicate with him.
It didnt take into account a pending deposit when writing its letter of 25 November 
2019.
It didnt allow him to sell shares despite his account being within the approved level 
stated in its letter of 18 November 2019.
Mr R said that although he was at fault, he believes HSBC were also at fault and suggested 
that a compromise was perhaps the way forward.
The investigator responded and said that he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong by 
sending documents in the post rather than through My Documents. He said it legally had to 
send certain correspondence by post. 
He also said that the pending deposit wouldve still left Mr Rs account in excess of the 
permitted overdraft limit and HSBC was correct not to include this in the balance shown on 
his account as it was pending and not cleared funds. The investigator also thought HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong in refusing to allow him to sell shares as he was in breach of the 
terms of his account.
Mr R thought the investigator hadnt considered the letter from HSBC of 18 November 2019, 
which agreed a temporary overdraft, properly. He also said that the agreement to use My 
Documents had not referred to any documents that still needed to be sent by post.
He made the following comments:
The letter of 18 November 2019 approved the overdraft level as the total share value 
represented 93% of that amount and amounted to a situation where he was not in 
breach of the terms and conditions of his account.
The investigators findings amount to saying you were in breach of the terms and 
conditions therefore all other matters are irrelevant which isnt fair or reasonable.
He doesnt agree with the investigators finding that HSBC was right not to take 
account of pending transactions as deposits from shares sold are of a different 
nature to a presented cheque.
On 20 November 2019 HSBC wrote telling him he should not exceed the overdraft 
level agreed in the letter of 18 November 2019, but he miscalculated his position and 
there was another share purchase pending. He took immediate steps to remedy the 
situation by selling shares on 21 November 2019 so that his position was consistent 
with the letter of 18 November 2019.
He expected our service to assess the complaint on a fair and reasonable basis and 
he has presented a list of issues which contributed to his substantial loss.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R has strong views that HSBC hasnt treated him fairly and shouldve done 
more to contact him about him being above his arranged overdraft and the consequences of 
this. I know this will be very disappointing to Mr R, but having considered the evidence I 
agree with the investigator that HSBC hasnt done anything wrong for reasons I will explain.
HSBC has referred to having tried to contact Mr R over several months about his trading. 
But the evidence I have seen is limited to what happened in November and December 2019 
and this is what my findings concentrate on.
I think it is important to be clear that the responsibility for knowing what was happening with 
his account and ensuring he didnt go over his agreed overdraft limit was Mr Rs. And he 
didnt just go over by a small amount for just a couple of days. He was above his limit for two 
and a half weeks before his account was suspended, and the amount he was above his limit 
in that period was significant, going from over £5,000 to in excess of £18,000.
From the statements I have seen Mr R was overdrawn by £5,564 as of 11 November 2019, 
rising to £10,301 on 15 November 2019, went briefly to £15,612 for one day on 18 
November 2019 before going back down to £10,178 and then went up to £18,671 on 22 
November 2019 before reducing to £10,167 on the 28 November 2019. So, he was 
significantly above his agreed overdraft limit for around two and a half weeks before his 
Invest Direct account was suspended.
The terms and conditions of his account required him to have enough in his current account 
to meet the costs of his trades and he was in default by being above his agreed overdraft 
limit. In the circumstances I think HSBC couldve suspended his account as soon as he was 
in default, but it didnt do so.
What it did was write to Mr R about his current account being above the overdraft limit. The 
first letter I have seen is dated 12 November 2019 informing him his account was overdrawn 
£5,564 as against an overdraft limit of only £1,170. It asked him to rectify this in the next 
seven days and warned if it happened again the account could be suspended or cancelled.
HSBC sent another letter on 20 November 2019 HSBC referring to his account being 
£10,178 overdrawn as against the agreed overdraft limit of £1,170. It again asked Mr R to 
rectify the position in seven days and warned the account could be closed or suspended if 
this happened again.
HSBC wrote again on 25 November 2019 by which time the account was overdrawn 
£18,671 - £17,501 above his overdraft limit. This was rectified by the sale of shares on 28 
November 2019, but this still meant he was over £10,000 overdrawn against his limit of 
£1,170.
Mr R has said he didnt get the letters of 20 November 2019 or 25 November 2019 until the 
end of December 2019. But even if he didnt receive any of the letters until after the Invest 
Direct account had been suspended HSBC did write to him, so it did try and contact him 
about the issue with his account. 
Mr R originally agreed he was in breach of the terms and conditions and that HSBC had the 
right to block his account. But he has subsequently suggested he wasnt in breach because 
of another letter HSBC sent to him on 18 November 2019. Mr R has again said he didnt get this letter until after the account was blocked but that has no bearing on the contents.
In that letter HSBC stated that it had agreed an unarranged overdraft because he had a 
debit balance on his account £10,301 on his account which was £9,131 above his agreed 
limit. It explained that the unarranged overdraft allowed payments he had authorised despite 
the lack of funds or arranged overdraft limit. 
But Im not persuaded that the unarranged overdraft meant that there was an ongoing facility 
at the level of the unarranged overdraft so that he wasnt in breach of the account terms and 
conditions, so long as he didnt go above that unarranged overdraft level. 
As the letter made clear, the purpose of the unarranged overdraft was so that HSBC could 
allow payments that had already been authorised by Mr R. It didnt mean that he didnt have 
to bring his overdraft back down to the agreed limit of £1,170, or could make further 
payments - as I think the subsequent letter of 20 November 2019 shows. I note that Mr R 
has suggested in his most recent email to us that the letter indicated he shouldnt exceed the 
unarranged overdraft limit. But the letter makes no reference to the this, it refers only to the 
arranged overdraft limit.
As well as the letter it sent HSBC also sent Mr R a secure message on 18 November 2019 
asking him to telephone HSBC. I note he has suggested that the secure message didnt 
indicate any urgency, but I dont agree. The message stated:
Weve tried calling you but havent managed to get through. We really need to speak to 
you.
I think this made it clear that HSBC needed to speak to him urgently. Mr R has provided his 
phone records for the period 11 November 2019 and 10 December 2019, but this doesnt 
show any call to HSBC before 28 November 2019 - when one seven second call and one 
five-minute call are recorded. The next call isnt until 4 December 2019, six days later. 
Mr R has said he didnt get through when he telephoned on 28 November 2019, and I have 
seen no evidence of a telephone discussion. But I think he shouldve done more to get in 
contact with HSBC, given HSBC had told him that it really needed to speak to him.
Mr R has said that HSBC shouldnt have sent letters by post. But I dont think it did anything 
wrong in doing so. I acknowledge that he had indicated he wanted communication online 
through My Documents. But that doesnt mean that there was an agreement that it wouldnt 
send certain documents by post. 
I acknowledge he may not have been aware of this. But even if he had been aware, Im not 
persuaded it wouldve changed what happened. He wouldnt have received the letters any 
sooner just because he was aware that he could be contacted by letter. So, he still wouldve 
been in the same position whether, or not, he knew not all communication would be through 
My Documents.
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that HSBC did anything wrong in suspending his 
account, or that it needed to do more to make him aware that he was significantly over his 
agreed overdraft limit before it did so. He has said that it was the decision to send letters by 
mail that caused the problem. But what led to the suspension was his failure to keep within 
his agreed overdraft limit for the two and a half weeks before his account was suspended. It 
would not be fair or reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for this when Mr R shouldve have 
been aware himself of the position on his account.
Mr R has complained that HSBC wasnt willing to remove the suspension on his account to allow him to sell some shares. But Im not satisfied that it was unreasonable for it to keep the 
suspension in place when the cause of the suspension was him being over his agreed 
overdraft limit and this was still the case when he asked for the suspension to be removed. 
In the circumstances I think HSBC were entitled to sell some of his shares when it did to 
reduce the amount owing in respect of the overdraft. Mr R has said when he spoke to HSBC 
on the 3 December 2019  his phone records show he made no call on the 3 December 
2019, but he made three calls on 4 December 2019 so he may be misremembering the date 
-  he was told that his shares were scheduled to be sold that day but that he said he wanted 
to agree the share price. 
So, it appears the sale didnt go ahead that day because he didnt want it HSBC to sell the 
shares. HSBC then went ahead with the sale on 9 December 2019. It is unfortunate that the 
shares dropped in value, but I dont think it did anything wrong in selling the shares when it 
did, given the account was still well above the agreed overdraft limit. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman