DRN-4251385
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Equifax Limited wouldnt report his repayment arrangement on his 
credit file.
What happened
From 2018 to 2019, Mr M was in a reduced payment arrangement with his credit card 
company, S, made through a debt management plan. The account later defaulted.
In 2022, Mr M found out that Equifax was not reporting this arrangement, and was instead 
reporting that hed simply missed his payments for those months. He raised a dispute with 
Equifax.
Equifax in turn raised a generic account dispute with S, who replied saying they didnt agree 
to remove the account data. Mr M explained that Equifax hadnt dealt with the actual issue at 
hand, but Equifax declined to help further.
Mr M came to our service. We looked into things with S, and found that they were reporting 
to Equifax that Mr M had been in an arrangement through a debt management plan.
Equifax confirmed that S most likely did flag the arrangement with it, but claimed that it 
simply wasnt possible to report the historic arrangement, as once the account defaulted the 
historic data disappeared. Mr M pointed out that other accounts showed historic 
arrangements that were followed by a default.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, recommending that Equifax should accurately report 
the historic arrangement from S, and pay Mr M £150 compensation.
Equifax didnt agree. It insisted it wasnt possible for it to report the arrangement when it was 
followed by a default. When we pointed out that it was reporting exactly that on other 
accounts, Equifax confirmed that it was now reporting the arrangement with S, but claimed 
that it hadnt previously because S hadnt told it about the arrangement.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr M and Equifax a provisional decision on 4 July 2023, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think the complaint should be upheld.
From what both sides have sent me, it looks like Equifax is now correctly reporting that Mr M 
had a historic repayment arrangement with S before the account defaulted. So Im glad to 
see that the core issue has now been sorted out.
However, I think that it took much too long to get to this point, and I think thats primarily 
because of the way Equifax handled things.
We already investigated things with S, and found that they told Equifax about Mr Ms debt 
management plan payment arrangement. I wont re-hash those points here. Equifax also 
previously accepted that S had reported this. It looks like the issue was caused by a 
mismatch between the way that S and Equifaxs systems reported things.
This could have been relatively straightforward to resolve. However, when Mr M raised the 
issue with Equifax, Equifax doesnt appear to have properly explained to S what Mr M was 
actually trying to change. So it seems S were under the impression that Equifax was asking 
them to outright remove the payment data, which is understandable given how little Equifax 
seems to have told them. And understandably, S said they didnt agree to remove the data.
Mr M then reiterated to Equifax what the actual problem was. He showed it how our service 
had investigated things with S, and confirmed that S had reported the arrangement to 
Equifax and it should be reflected on his file. But Equifax repeatedly refused to help any 
further, even when presented with clear evidence that they were reporting inaccurate 
information on Mr Ms file.
Even when the case came to our service, Equifax has not been very helpful or co-operative, 
but has instead provided contradictory excuses for its reporting of inaccurate information. 
I dont accept Equifaxs prior claim that it was unable to report the historic arrangement, both 
because that would be contrary to its duty to report accurate data, and because it was able 
to report similar historic arrangements for other accounts. I also dont find Equifaxs new 
claim  that S never previously reported the debt management plan  to be credible. Equifax 
previously accepted that S had reported the arrangement, and we already looked into things 
with S and found that they were indeed reporting it.
But even if I were to accept that S had some responsibility for the initial issue, I still find that 
Equifax did not take the proper steps or do its proper part to help resolve the matter, and 
instead dragged its heels while continuing to report information it had good reason to know 
was inaccurate. Even if Mr Ms file has now been corrected, and even if weve not found that 
he suffered any particular financial losses, we still need to put right his non-financial loss.
I understand that Equifax has caused Mr M some real stress and disappointment, as well as 
substantially delaying the resolution of the issue and causing him some significant trouble in 
trying to sort things out. Taking into account our guidelines for compensation and the impact 
this has had on Mr M, I propose that Equifax should pay him £250 compensation. I think that 
amount better acknowledges the effect Equifaxs handling of the matter had on Mr M.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
18 July 2023. Mr M accepted the provisional decision and confirmed he had no further 
submissions to make. Equifax didnt add anything further.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and direct Equifax Limited to pay him £250 compensation in total.
If Mr M accepts the final decision, Equifax Limited must pay him within 28 days of the date 
our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman