DRN-3904615
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received from Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money, surrounding his credit account.
What happened
Mr P wanted to make a balance transfers from an account held with another credit provider 
and from an account held in his wifes name to his Virgin account, but Virgin wouldnt accept 
the transfers. Mr P wasnt happy about this, or with the fact that Virgin had blocked access to 
his account and were insisting on him supplying identity verification (IDV) documents to 
them before they would consider unblocking the account. 
Mr P was also unhappy that the blocking of his account meant he couldnt close the account 
as he wanted, or that his wife didnt have access to Virgins mobile app, despite her being an 
additional cardholder on the account. Finally, Mr P was unhappy that Virgin hadnt actioned 
a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) hed submitted. So, he raised a complaint.
Virgin looked at Mr Ps complaint. They confirmed they had security concerns about the 
account and that they required IDV documents from Mr P before they would consider 
unblocking it. Virgin also explained that information about what balance transfers were 
permitted on the account was available on their website, and that the functionality for 
additional cardholders to access their mobile app wasnt available at present. Mr P wasnt 
satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Virgin had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A large portion of Mr Ps displeasure with Virgin surrounds the blocking of his account and 
that Virgin wont consider removing that block until Mr P provides IDV documents to them. 
However, Mr P has confirmed that in June 2021, his wife called Virgin and attempted to gain 
access to the account by impersonating him. This was recognised by Virgin and is what 
prompted Virgins security concerns and led to the blocking of Mr Ps account. 
This seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that I can fairly censure Virgin for requiring Mr 
P to provide IDV documents in order to unblock the account, given that an attempt to gain 
access to the account  by impersonating Mr P has been recognised by them.
Additionally, because the account is blocked for the reasons described above, I dont feel 
that its unfair or unreasonable for Virgin to have declined both to close the account or action 
the DSAR until Mr P has provided the necessary IDV documents to them. 
Mr P has explained that he doesnt feel that he should have to provide IDV documents to 
regain access to his account. But while I acknowledge that providing these documents to 
Virgin may be an inconvenience for Mr P, I feel that its necessary inconvenience undertaken 
with security of Mr Ps account in mind, and I would expect a credit provider such as Virgin to 
take such security measures to ensure they are interacting with the account holder when an 
attempt to impersonate that account holder has been previously recognised by them.
Its my understanding that Mr P hasnt to date provided the IDV documents as required of 
him, and I can only encourage Mr P to do so, given Im satisfied that Virgins requirements in 
this regard are reasonable, as explained above. Mr P has also stated that hes unsure what 
he needs to do to close the account. But I feel the need for him to provide IDV documents to 
Virgin in order to achieve this objective has been made clear to him on several occasions.
Mr P is also unhappy that Virgin wouldnt accept a balance transfer onto his account from a 
credit account he holds with another credit provider or from another account held in his 
wifes name. 
However, the credit account that Mr P was attempting to complete a balance transfer from 
was a non-UK based credit account held in his name. This isnt permitted on the Virgin credit 
account, and neither are balance transfers from accounts held in the names of people who 
arent listed as an account holder on the Virgin credit account - as Mrs Ps wife isnt. Virgin 
have been able to demonstrate that information to this effect is listed on their website within 
their Questions and Answers pages, and so I dont feel that Virgin have acted unfairly by 
not allowing the non-permitted balance transfers requested by Mr P as they did.
Finally, Mr P is unhappy that his wife, as an additional cardholder on the account, didnt have 
access to Virgins online app. But Virgin have explained their online app is only available to 
account holders and not to additional cardholders at this time. This is a commercial decision 
which Virgin are entitled to make and not one which is within my remit to instruct against. 
All of which means that I dont feel Virgin have acted unfairly towards Mr P as he contends 
here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint. I hope Mr P will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman