DRN-4210431
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to provide efficient facilities 
needed for him to communicate with it and to accommodate his disability. He is unhappy 
with the time it took Santander to address his concerns. 
What happened
Mr P suffers from a disability which makes it difficult to talk. On 22 March 2023 Mr P used 
Santanders webchat to dispute a £100 transaction to a third party merchant. Mr P 
terminated the chat as he was unhappy with the time it was taking to get a response.
On 28 March Mr P again used chat to get in touch with Santander to check the progress of 
his claim. He was told that this could be checked through the app or call the disputes team 
and Mr P informed the advisor his phone was broken and he had a disability that made it 
difficult to talk. 
The adviser then checked what was happening and explained to Mr P that Santander was 
waiting for him to sign and send back the disclaimer. Mr P said that he had already ticked a 
box online confirming everything was accurate and the advisor concluded that the dispute 
was still in progress and that it would be in touch. 
Mr P was unhappy with this as he still didnt know what was happening with his dispute and 
raised a complaint regarding the service hed received from Santander. The advisor 
confirmed that this would be passed to a specialist complaints team and could take three to 
five working days for a response and advised that a reply could be seen via the app or chat 
window and not to end the conversation on the chat.
The following day Mr P raised a further complaint through chat regarding the disputed 
transaction and about the way his disability has been handled.  Santander confirmed it would 
be in touch using the chat facility as this was the ideal means of communicating with Mr P.
The next day Mr P started a new chat and the advisor asked if he could close the previous 
chat down so they could provide a resolution to his complaint. The adviser explained they 
needed more information regarding Mr P trying to resolve the issue with the third party 
merchant himself. Mr P explained that the merchants waiting times were too long and 
communicating with it was difficult and upsetting for him in his circumstances. 
So as a gesture of goodwill and to resolve the complaint Santanders advisor offered £100 
compensation  the same amount as the disputed transaction  which Mr P accepted stating 
that that would be amazing.
On reflection Mr P was dissatisfied with this and decided to bring his complaint to this 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns and reached the conclusion that 
although Mr P wished for Santander to respond faster, they didnt think this was evidence of 
Mr P being treated unfairly due to his disability. Furthermore, they thought that the £100 
compensation paid was a fair resolution to the matter. 
Mr P disagreed, he doesnt believe Santander has made any changes in its allowances for 
disabled customers to contact it and wants an increase in compensation. Mr P has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr P has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr P back 
in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr P believes that Santander has failed to deliver the necessary facilities for him to 
communicate with it with his disability in a timely manner. But I dont think the wait time Mr P 
has experienced is anything to do with Mr Ps disability  rather its to do with volume of 
queries Santander receives via the online chat. And I think it is likely that there is a high 
volume of use of the online chat as it is easily available to all. 
Ive also seen nothing to show me that things wouldve been any faster by phone or 
otherwise or that Mr P has been disadvantaged by using the webchat. So I dont think 
Santander has treated Mr P unfairly or been unreasonable in the provision of facilities it 
offers to people with disabilities such as Mr P.
And although Mr P is unhappy at the time it took to receive a response to his claim and the 
service he received, by his own admission the waiting times of the third party merchant  
whos transaction was the reason for contacting Santander - were incredibly long with 
around 200 in the queue.  
To resolve the complaint and to assist Mr P, Santander compensated Mr P £100  the 
amount of the transaction he was disputing. This meant Mr P was no longer out of pocked 
and he was saved time by not having to provide more information regarding his claim or 
directly contact the merchant in question. I think this is not only a fair and reasonable way to 
settle Mr Ps complaint, but also practical. 
Mr P would like more compensation. But things dont always go smoothly. And not every 
mistake warrants compensation. And here, were I to find Santanders response time was too 
long, I wouldnt make an award as I dont consider the detriment Mr P alleges sufficient to 
justify one.
So overall and having considered everything, I think what Santander has already done to 
settle Mr Ps complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman