The complaint  
Mr G has complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (trading as Go 
Skippy) didnt give him enough information about the documentation that may later be 
required when he was taking out a motor insurance policy. Go Skippy cancelled Mr Gs 
policy because he didnt give this information to it, and he says he then had to take out a 
more expensive insurance policy as a result.  
Mr G is also unhappy with the general customer service he says he received from Go 
Skippy, the length of time taken to investigate his complaint and the fees for cancelling the 
policy.  
What happened  
In July 2019 Mr G took out a motor insurance policy. This policy was arranged through Go 
Skippy. After the policy was set up, Go Skippy requested some additional information from 
Mr G  a copy of his driving license and proof of no claims bonus. The reques ted 
documentation wasnt given by Mr G. Go Skippy then cancelled the policy in August 2019.  
After the policy was cancelled, Go Skippy contacted Mr G to request the outstanding 
balance be paid as well as some other charges.  
Mr G complained to Go Skippy. I n their final response, Go Skippy offered to reduce the 
amount owed by £50 to acknowledge that their customer service could have been better.  
Mr G remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. As a resolution to his 
complaint, Mr G wants an award for the distress and anxiety he says this has caused him 
and an explanation of the charges and fees incurred. Mr G would also like an apology from 
Go Skippy along with more robust customer service and clear guidelines put in place.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In summary, they found that:  
Go Skippy had given Mr G enough information about documentation that they may
later require when he was taking out the  policy;
Go Skippy took one week lo nger than they should have when investigating Mr Gs
complaint;
the charges that Go Skippy requested from Mr G were made clear and were fair;  and
although Go Skippys customer service could have been better, the £50 reduction in
the amount owed by Mr G  was a fair way to acknowledge the distress and
inconvenience that Go Skippy may have  caused.
DRN-1623819Mr G didnt agree with our investigators as sessment. In summary, Mr G says he remains 
unhappy with how Go Skippy asked him to pay the remaining balance, without taking into 
account his circumstances. The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive co nsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Having done do, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know this  will disappoint Mr 
G but I hope my explanation will hel p him to understand why Ive reached this  decision.  
 
For ease, Ive included some headings below as there are several parts to Mr Gs complaint.  
 
The information that Go Skippy gave Mr G at the time of taking the policy out  
 
Ive carefully considered every thing Mr G has said about the information he says he received 
at the time of taking out the policy. Ive also seen a copy of a screenshot that Go Skippy has 
told us is representative of what Mr G would have seen when taking out this policy. On 
balance, I t hink its likely this is representative of what Mr G saw when he took out the policy.  
 
Under the heading Terms & Conditions and Privacy Notice , theres an option to click to see 
the terms and conditions of business. A tick was required to agree to confir m they had been 
read and agreed to. This is what Mr G did. The terms stated that Go Skippy may request 
evidence such as driving license or No Claims Discount.  
 
It further states that if these documents are requested and not provided within 21 days of the 
insurance start date then the insurance policy may be cancelled. Therefore, I dont think Go 
Skippy acted unreasonably by asking for this documentation from Mr G  after the policy had 
started and then cancelling the policy when the documents werent provided after giving Mr 
G a fair opportunity to provide them. I also note that it wrote to Mr G about this and gave him 
an extension of time to send it the information  requested.  
 
Cancellation charges  
 
Mr G is unhappy with the charges that Go Skippy requested when the policy was cancelled. 
However, I also think that Go Skippy made Mr G aware of what the charges would be in the 
event of the policy being cancelled in the same terms of business document which referred 
to the evidence that might be requested. And that this was before he agreed to take the 
policy out.  
 
Ive already found that I think the information about the charges was made clear at the time 
of taking the p olicy and have gone on to think about whether the charges were fair.  
 
By fair, I mean the charges in relation to what the business needed to do to cancel the 
policy. As our investigator has already said, its not for our Service to tell Go Skippy what 
their fees or charges should be, as thats their own commercial decision to make. On 
balance, Im satisfied that overall the fees charged by Go Skippy were fair and in line with 
the policy terms.  
 
The general customer service  
 
Mr G is unhappy with the way Go S kippy requested the outstanding amount after the 
cancellation  given his personal health circumstances. Mr G has told us that the 
cancellation of the policy made his mental health worse.  Whilst I empathise with Mr G - with what must h ave been a stressful experience, I cant fairly 
say that Go Skippy have been unreasonable in asking for payment. Theyve acted within the 
terms of business which Mr G agreed to.  
For some context, if Go Skippy had contacted Mr G very frequently about the cancellation, I 
might be minded to say that theyd treated him unfairly. But the evidence Ive seen shows 
that Go Skippy wrote to Mr G to ask him to make the payment. Then when no payment was 
received, they chased him for it. When Mr G made Go Skippy aware of his financial 
difficulties they offered a repayment plan and suggested he speak to Citizens Advice Bureau 
for advice. When the compliant was then referred to our service Go Ski ppy put the debt 
collection on hold. So I cant fairly say that Go Skippy have acted unfairly here.  
Its not in dispute that Go Skippy took longer than expected when initially investigating  
Mr Gs complaint. The delay - although frustrating for Mr G - wasnt excessive. In any case, 
Mr G could have referred his complaint to our Service once the 8 weeks had elapsed as 
outlined by Go Skippy when they acknowledged Mr Gs complaint.  
In this complaint, I think that the £50 reduction in the outstanding amount ow ed is a fair 
acknowledgement by Go Skippy that the overall customer service provided could have been 
better.  
Whilst Ive carefully considered what Mr G wanted as a resolution to this complaint, our 
Service doesn't have the power to tell Go Skippy to chang e its complaint handling 
processes. That would be a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.  
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint so Go Skippy aren't required to do anything 
more than it has already done to put things right  
Mr G owes Go Skippy some money and its now fair for it to seek to recover it from him and I 
would recommend that he get in touch with Go Skippy to discuss his options to pay this.  
My final decision  
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (trading as Go Skippy) have already made an 
offer to reduce the amount owed by £50 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. If Go Skippy have already done this I don't direct them to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.  
Daniel OShea  
Ombudsman  