DRN-2228921
The complaint
Mr As complaint is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated him unfairly in regard to a 
transaction for the purchase of a package holiday. 
What happened
In August 2019 a package holiday was purchased from a travel company using Mr As 
HSBC credit card. Mr A says he bought this so his family could have a holiday abroad. The 
total cost charged to his card was just over £1616.
The holiday was in November 2019. In the days leading up to the outbound flight it came to 
light that the flight tickets were for the wrong day. This was sorted and Mr A and family flew 
on the intended day but Mr A notes this mix up had led to seating issues for their flight.
Mr A says on arrival at the destination the organised transfer to the hotel wasnt as 
described. Mr A says that the hotel room was extremely small, and the service provided by 
the hotel wasnt very good. Mr A says the description of the location of local amenities wasnt 
accurate, leading to too much time under the hot sun and additional taxi costs. Mr A also 
notes that the transfer back to the airport wasnt very good either and some clothing was 
lost.
On return Mr A complained to the travel company and asked for 50% refund on the package 
holiday. But he was unsuccessful there. So Mr A complained to HSBC and asked for 100% 
refund.
HSBC said it couldnt raise a chargeback as the service (the package holiday) had been 
provided and it also felt a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should 
also be unsuccessful due to the criteria for protection under that Act not having been met.
So Mr A complained here. The Investigator felt that HSBCs approach to the matter was 
wrong but nevertheless felt that this hadnt led to Mr A losing out. Mr A doesnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A accepts he made this transaction for this holiday and he hasnt disputed that he knew 
the amount he was paying. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the transaction was 
properly authorised by Mr A and correctly applied to Mr As credit card account by HSBC. 
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr A does 
here, HSBC (as the card issuer) can challenge the transaction through the chargeback 
process. HSBC is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success 
when it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go 
through the process, then it must do so properly. The merchant (the travel company here) 
can defend the chargeback and then HSBC should decide how to proceed. Ultimately the 
scheme provider (not HSBC) makes a final binding decision. So HSBC isnt the final arbiter 
in the chargeback process and hence isnt responsible for deciding on whether the 
chargeback is successful or not. And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt 
think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
HSBC has told us it didnt raise a chargeback here. HSBC felt that there wasnt a reasonable 
prospect of success in doing so, largely on the basis that the package holiday was provided 
and that Mr A and his family did get the flights and hotel they booked. Ive considered what 
has happened here and Im not persuaded that HSBCs has treated Mr A unfairly by 
deciding this. And I think had it raised a chargeback the travel company would have 
defended it and been able to show Mr A and family did have the benefit of what was 
purchased. So I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong here.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr As HSBCs credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against HSBC as he does against the 
supplier (the travel company) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier as long as certain conditions are met. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. HSBC originally argued that this arrangement didnt exist due to the situation here. 
But the Investigator clearly explained to HSBC that this was a package holiday and the 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 applied and HSBC 
hasnt contended this in its response. HSBC is well aware of our approach here. And 
considering the situation here Im satisfied HSBCs original position was erroneous and Im 
glad it has accepted our approach in this case. And considering the amount Mr A paid for the 
holiday Im satisfied this case meets the financial criteria set out in the legislation as well.
For a successful claim Mr A would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the travel company with regard to the contract for the holiday. Mr As evident disappoint 
with the holiday isnt enough to uphold this complaint against HSBC. Breach or 
misrepresentation have to be demonstrated on balance of probabilities for HSBC to be held 
responsible for this holiday. Mr A has complained about a number of facets of the holiday 
which I shall consider here.
There were issues around the departure date. It seems these issues sat with the travel 
company and Mr A got involved to sort the matter out. In the end Mr A and his family flew on 
the allotted day at no extra cost so Im not satisfied the contract was breached. Mr A points 
to the seating arrangements for his infant child. The arrangements Mr A wanted were at no 
extra cost and not guaranteed to be available, so I dont see any breach or persuasive 
material misrepresentation here.
Ive considered Mr As comments about the hotel room and the hotel services. And clearly 
these didnt meet Mr As expectations. However to decide HSBC has liability here I need to 
be persuaded that there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation that made a 
difference. But considering the evidence here Im not persuaded there was a breach or a 
misrepresentation here. And for HSBC to be liable under section 75 there needs to be such 
which is a higher test than not meeting Mr As expectations which may or may not be in 
keeping with what was advertised to him as to what he was getting. And similar to the 
Investigators thinking here there isnt persuasive evidence of Mr A complaining whilst at the hotel but rather only on return home. So I dont think HSBC should be liable for the 
accommodation.
And with regard to the distance to local amenities Im not persuaded Mr A only took this hotel 
purely on its location in relation to local transport hubs. I think he booked that hotel for a 
number of reasons including price, availability and the standard of the hotel amongst other 
things. So I dont think any lack of clarity about local amenities meant that he booked this 
hotel that he otherwise wouldnt have done. I think it likely hed have booked it anyway.
Mr A has also complained about the transfers on arrival and departure at his destination. He 
complains that they werent in keeping with his expectations or as they were advertised. But 
having considered the matter here Im not persuaded that there was a breach or 
misrepresentation here. I think this is a subjective area and I dont think it fair for HSBC to 
incur any liability in regard to these matters. Mr A says he also lost some clothing during 
these transfers and it wasnt returned. This maybe so but as Ive explained HSBC can only 
be held liable for breaches of the contract or misrepresentation and I dont think these apply 
here.
Ive also considered how HSBC dealt with the claim you made. I can see it made a small 
award to Mr A for some small issues that happened. I can see it credited his account whilst it 
investigated and redebited it when it finished its investigation into the claim. Im not 
persuaded HSBC needed to do any more here.
I note that Mr A, when he considered our Investigators assessment, didnt challenge any of 
the findings with any logical argument or provided any further evidence specific to his case. 
Rather Mr A pointed to online comments from other complainants to this service. But we 
consider cases on their individual merits and Mr A has had a very clear and reasoned 
assessment provided on his case and with its conclusions I agree. I appreciate Mr A will be 
disappointed that Im not finding in his favour. However for the reasons given in this decision 
and already provided to Mr A beforehand it is my decision that this complaint about HSBC 
shouldnt be successful.
In summary although HSBC could have done more in considering Mr As complaint I dont 
think it would have made a difference to the result both in terms of the chargeback and his 
claim under section 75. And accordingly what HSBC has done hasnt led to Mr A losing out. 
And thus his complaint isnt successful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman