DRN-2216757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in September 2000. The policy was taken out 
to cover Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage and was in Mr Cs name only. It provided him with cover 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree. Mrs C replied, in some detail, to say, in summary, that:
The wording in the booklet supports that Standard Life recommended the policy. Mr C 
agreed to take out the policy on the advice of Standard Life and believing that the PPI 
was an integral part of securing the mortgage.
The wording didnt make it clear that the policy was optional.
Standard Life cant say how long the PPI would have paid out for. So it cant be 
determined whether the policy provided a useful benefit.
They wouldnt have taken the policy if Standard Life had provided them with clear 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Standard Life doesnt have a full record of what took place, which isnt unreasonable or 
unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In cases like this, where the evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, to decide what is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Standard Life told us that Mr and Mrs C applied for the policy by post and that it didnt 
provide advice. Mr and Mrs C say the policy was also discussed on the phone and that they 
understood Standard Life to have recommended the policy to them. Ive considered this 
carefully. Mrs C has pointed to the wording in the Standard Life booklet which says:
you should consider taking out Accident, Sickness and Unemployment cover. To do this, 
speak to your Financial Adviser or call Standard Life Bank
I dont find this amounts to a personalised recommendation aimed at Mr and Mrs C. I find 
that Standard Life simply highlighted a product that its consumers may have wanted to find 
out more about. I cant be certain exactly what was discussed during any phone call that 
took place. But Ive not seen anything to persuade me that this was an advised sale. So 
Standard Life didnt have to check that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. 
But Standard Life did need to give Mr and Mrs C information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed choice 
about the insurance they were buying. If there was a problem with the way the policy was 
sold, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs C are worse off as a result. That is, would 
they have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been 
any problems with the sale?
I dont agree with Mrs C that the wording in the booklet suggests they had to have the PPI as 
part of the mortgage  it simply suggests its something that they may want to consider. So 
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C would have felt pressured to buy the policy because of 
the wording in the application form.
The mortgage application asked, Are you interested in taking out ASU cover through us? 
and included equally clear Yes and No boxes. This suggests to me that the policy was 
presented as optional. The Yes box has been ticked to show that Mr and Mrs C were 
interested. The application form looks to have been completed electronically before being 
sent to Mr and Mrs C to sign. So it seems possible that, as Mrs C recalls, the details of the 
application may have been discussed on the phone beforehand. As noted above, I cant be 
sure exactly what was discussed, but Mr and Mrs C must have expressed an interest in PPI 
for the box to be ticked. And there must have been some discussion about the product for Mr 
and Mrs C to decide that the policy should be taken out in Mr Cs name only. They would 
then have had to complete a separate PPI application form and direct debit instruction to 
take out the product.
Taking all this into consideration, I think Standard Life made Mr and Mrs C aware that the 
PPI was optional, and they chose to take it out.
Its possible the information Standard Life gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy if 
they had received better information. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr C's name only and he was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mrs C told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And its likely Mr and Mrs C felt 
they could still have managed to meet their mortgage payments if she was unable to 
work. But Mr C told us he would only have received statutory sick pay. The mortgage 
was a major long-term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs C's home was at risk if they 
couldnt meet the repayments. I think they probably wanted to make sure their mortgage 
payments would be covered if Mr C couldnt work. It would also have covered him if hed 
become unemployed.Neither party can say how long the PPI would have paid out for. Based on what we know 
about various PPI policies sold around this time, and what I have seen in other cases, its 
very likely that the policy would have paid out for a minimum of 12 months. So I think Mr 
and Mrs C would have thought it could have been a useful benefit.
Its not clear whether Mr and Mrs C were made aware of the cost of the policy before 
they agree to take it. I think its unlikely they knew it would cost £11.12 until after theyd 
agreed to take it. But they'd chosen to take the policy, knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs C dont agree with me but, overall, I think they would have still taken 
out the policy, despite what they say now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman