DRN-3080876
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a disputed transaction of £5,000 
which was withdrawn in cash at a branch from her account. She says she didnt take the 
money out and shes the victim of fraud.
What happened
Mrs T had a joint savers account with her son. Mrs T has explained she used the account to 
save money to pay for her sons education.
On 15 December 2018, a cash withdrawal of £5,000 was made in branch. Mrs Ts passport, 
bank card and PIN were used as identification to make the withdrawal. And a signature slip 
was completed at the time. 
On 19 December 2018, the remaining balance of just under £3,000 was withdrawn in cash at 
a branch. Mrs T hasnt disputed this transaction. 
Mrs T disputed the £5,000 transaction in January 2021 and asked Barclays to refund the 
money.
Mrs T says that she hadnt lost her bank card or disclosed her PIN to anyone else. She says 
that she never made the transaction on 15 December 2018 and that an invalid passport 
belonging to her was used to verify the withdrawal. Mrs T has explained shed applied for a 
new passport in July 2018. And that her old passport had been cut in the bottom right corner 
to signify it had been cancelled when her new passport had been issued, so Barclays 
shouldnt have accepted it as proof of identification as it was invalid. And the withdrawal was 
therefore fraudulent. 
Barclays investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transaction. It concluded that  
Mrs T had authorised the transaction. In summary it said:
the bank had verified Mrs Ts identity at the time of the withdrawal using several 
different security processes  including checking Mrs Ts passport, signature, 
card and PIN. So, there was nothing to suggest the withdrawal had been made 
fraudulently.
Mrs T wouldve been aware that the balance had significantly reduced on 19 
December 2018 when she made an undisputed transaction, yet Mrs T didnt 
dispute the earlier transaction until two years later.
Mrs T disagreed with Barclayss decision. She said Barclays should have stopped the 
transaction and wants the bank to check the CCTV. She wants Barclays to refund her. So, 
she brought her complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into the 
matter. 
Based on the evidence the investigator thought Mrs T more likely than not authorised the 
transaction. In summary he said there was no plausible explanation for how an unknown 
third party could gain access to Mrs Ts bank card, PIN and passport which were used to 
pass security to make the cash withdrawal.  And then manage to forge her signature. He 
also said that despite there being just under £3,000 still remaining in the account, no further 
attempts to gain access to the balance was made which was unusual. 
Mrs T disagreed.  She said she didnt know anything about the transaction and wants 
Barclays to refund her the money.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transaction, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mrs T and Barclays have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Mrs T that Ive read the file, including her comments and 
evidence.
 
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mrs T authorised 
the payment, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mrs T says she didnt make 
the disputed transaction, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Mrs T authorised the transactions either by making it herself or allowing a third party to 
do so.  
But, the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable 
Barclays to hold Mrs T liable for the transaction. So, I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mrs T consented to the transaction being 
made or whether she is the victim of fraud as shes alleged.
 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im persuaded that Mrs T did consent to the transaction 
she is disputing. I say this because:
Barclayss technical records show the transaction was made after several security 
verification processes were completed in branch. Firstly, Mrs Ts bank card and PIN 
were used in the banks PIN sentry process. This requires the card holder to insert 
their card into a small hand- held device and key in their PIN. Mrs T has said she 
hasnt lost her bank and hasnt disclosed her PIN to anyone else. So, that makes it 
difficult to explain how anybody other than Mrs T was able to use them to pass the 
banks security process and make the withdrawal.
Due to the value of the transaction, Barclays applied additional security verification 
measures and asked for an identity document. Mrs Ts passport was produced at the 
time by the individual making the withdrawal. Mrs T hasnt said she lost the passport 
which was produced. So, I cant see how a fraudster would be able to gain access to 
it and then use it in branch. 
Ive seen a copy of the passport and it has a clear photograph of the passport holder. 
I think its unlikely that a fraudster would be mistaken for Mrs T once the photograph 
was checked by staff.                             
A signature was also obtained from the person making the withdrawal which was 
double checked against the banks records and passport. This was confirmed as 
Mrs Ts genuine signature.A further security checklist was completed by staff at the time of the withdrawal. This 
required three questions regarding Mrs T and her account to be answered. Having 
looked at the check list I can see that all questions were answered correctly. And 
double checked by staff. 
The disputed transaction doesnt fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster will 
try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit from it 
before the account holder notices their funds are missing. But this didnt happen. 
Instead the account wasnt drained and just under £3,000 was left in the account. 
On 19 December 2018, Mrs T withdrew the remaining balance of the account. So, I 
think its likely that she wouldve noticed that the available balance was £5,000 less 
than she thought  yet Ive not seen any evidence that she questioned this at the 
time. Instead she didnt raise this with the bank until 2020. I think its unlikely if Mrs T 
didnt make the withdrawal on 15 December 2018 that she wouldve waited such a 
long time to alert the bank that £5,000 was missing from her account. I think she 
wouldve raised it much sooner than she did.
I note that Mrs T has said the passport was presented was invalid  shes said this is 
because she applied for a new passport and that her old passport was cut at the 
corner. So, Barclays shouldnt have accepted it as part of its identification verification. 
But the passport was in date  it expired on 16 December 2018, which was the day 
after the withdrawal was made. I note too from the photocopy of the passport that 
Barclays has sent us, which it took at the time, the corner isnt cut. So, I dont think 
Barclays were wrong to accept the passport to verify the withdrawal.
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. Based on 
the evidence, including the level and type of security verification that was completed to make 
the withdrawal, its hard to see how anyone other than Mrs T made the withdrawal. So, in the 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Barclays to refund Mrs T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman