DRN-1392155
Complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy. 
The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, is now responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to Halifax 
throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs S its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs S genuinely and honestly 
feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. Nevertheless, the sale of the MPPI looks like it was in 
2000 so these events are from 20 years ago. Its therefore obviously understandable that Mr 
and Mrs S dont remember everything that took place.
Halifax sent me a copy of the specific MPPI application which Mr S signed and dated 2 
February 2000. It was entitled MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS INSURANCE APPLICATION 
and he asked for cover only for himself, so I think this shows it was something he and Mrs S 
had thought about with their joint mortgage. I therefore think Halifax properly obtained their 
consent.
Halifax concedes it would have probably recommended the MPPI as part of an advised 
sale. This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it 
was. 
I say this because Mr S appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests it 
wasnt affordable for them. 
Mr and Mrs S implied they didnt need the cover because they also had sickness protection 
with their jobs. Ive thought very carefully about this but it doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. 
The mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences of them not being 
able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the 
cover was payable for up to 24 months which in my experience is a relatively long time and 
more than some of the other MPPI products around at the time. This would have been in 
addition to any other means they had in place at the time. So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy for Mr S, I dont think it being 
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their 
consideration.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm whether Halifax did everything right, but having discussed the 
cover I think Mr and Mrs S would have been given the supporting literature explaining the 
policy rules. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I think there is very strong evidence they engaged 
in discussions about this sale and would have gone through a number of steps to get the 
policy. I dont find anything that supports their complaint that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman