DRN-3725829
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy Santander UK Plc wont refund her for flight tickets and a taxi fare she 
paid for using her Santander credit card. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs M bought two return flight tickets, with an airline (N), to America 
for a total of £729.60 using her Santander credit card. The flight departed on 
17 February 2020 and was due to return on 31 March 2020.
Mrs M flew out with her husband to America on 17 February 2020. However, on 21 March 
2020, Mrs M received an email from N where they said her return flight had been impacted 
by Covid-19. Mrs M says she called N upon receiving this email and was told, during this 
call, the return flight had been cancelled. Mrs M said N offered a refund of the return flight or 
an alternative flight back to the UK scheduled on 17 April 2020  around two weeks after Mrs 
Ms original return date. Mrs M says N told her there was no guarantee the flight due to 
happen on 17 April 2020 would actually go ahead.
As a result of the fast-moving situation with the Covid-19 pandemic and travel becoming 
impacted, Mrs M says she wanted to return to the UK as quickly as possible. So, Mrs M 
searched for another return flight. Mrs M found two first class tickets for a return flight, 
departing on 30 March 2020, with another airline which cost a total of £4,746.56. Mrs M said 
she didnt want to risk being stranded in America, incurring further expenses as a result.
The return flight Mrs M booked was to another airport in London and not the original airport 
Mrs M departed from. As a result, Mrs M had to get a taxi to the original airport to pick up her 
car which was parked there when she left the UK on 17 February 2020. Mrs M has provided 
evidence to show this taxi trip cost her £85.
Through a chargeback claim raised with Santander in June 2020, Mrs M received a partial 
refund of £319.80 for the original return flight that didnt go ahead. But Mrs M has asked for a 
refund for the two first class tickets costing £4,746.56 as well as the £85 taxi journey as she 
feels she had no option but to pay for these to be able to get home in good time before 
further government restrictions were put in place.
Santander say they dont feel theres been a breach of contract as Mrs M agreed, when 
making the original booking with N, that should the flight be cancelled by N, they would then 
offer a flight on the next available journey or a refund of the cancelled flight. Mrs M confirmed 
N offered her and her husband a place on the next available flight, however, she didnt 
accept this. As Mrs M has received a partial refund for the flight that didnt go ahead, 
Santander dont feel theyre liable for the loss Mrs M has suffered for the new flight and the 
taxi fare. 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns. In summary, she said Ns terms and 
conditions accept that theyll be liable for any consequential loss as required by law, which in 
this case would be the general entitlement in common law to damages in the event of a 
breach of contract. So, our Investigator recommended Santander refund the cost of the new 
flights (with a deduction made for the partial refund Mrs M received of £319.80) as well as 
reimbursing Mrs M for the £85 taxi fare.
Mrs M agreed to this recommendation, but Santander didnt. They reiterated Mrs M was 
offered an alternative flight which she didnt accept and that she received a partial refund via 
a chargeback dispute. Santander again said they didnt think there had been a breach of 
contract as Mrs M received what was agreed in her contract with N should a flight be 
cancelled. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is she doesnt feel she should be liable for the costs she 
incurred as a result of the return flight being cancelled by N.
 
Mrs M has provided us with a copy of the email she received from N on 21 March 2020 
where they said her flight had been affected by Covid-19. I dont have a copy of the call 
recording where Mrs M says N told her the return flight was, in fact, cancelled. However, 
even without this, Ive seen evidence to show Mrs M was reimbursed with the cancelled flight 
costs. So, Ive got no reason to disbelieve what Mrs M has told us  that N cancelled the 
return flight.
There are typically two avenues in which the credit card issuer can request a refund from a 
supplier, where one of their customers uses their facilities, to make a purchase for goods or 
services. 
The first of these is the chargeback scheme. In this case, Mrs M received a refund of the 
return flight through the scheme, which Mrs M is happy with, so I dont feel the need to go 
into this further. Whats in dispute here is whether there is a breach of contract and if 
Santander should be liable for the additional losses Mrs M incurred.
This brings me on to the second avenue. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says 
that, in certain circumstances, if Mrs M paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on her 
Santander credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier, Santander can be held responsible. For Section 75 to apply, certain criteria needs 
to be satisfied relating to things like the parties to the transaction, the way the payment was 
made and the cost of the goods. Im satisfied this is met and Section 75 applies here, and 
Ive noted Santander havent disputed this when replying to our Investigator.
Santander didnt meet Mrs Ms claim under Section 75. Instead, Santander have argued that 
there isnt a breach of contract by N  they say Mrs M was offered an alternative flight or a 
refund which was in line with Ns terms and conditions. However, I disagree with Santanders 
rationale. The cancelled flight is, in itself, a breach of contract. I say this because having 
read Ns General Conditions of Carriage, it is clear that there is a contractual entitlement 
for N to provide carriage on the booked flight in the event Mrs M produced a valid ticket in 
her name. N then failed to fulfil this obligation by cancelling the return flight shed booked. 
So, with this in mind, I think there was a breach of contract. 
Mrs M says the alternative flight N proposed wasnt suitable as this was scheduled two 
weeks after she was due to return to the UK. Even then, Mrs M says N told her they couldnt 
guarantee the flight would go ahead on this date due to the Covid-19 pandemic which was 
impacting countries worldwide. Having considered this, alongside the Government 
restrictions on travel that were being announced as a result of the unprecedented pandemic, I dont find Mrs Ms actions of finding another flight herself to be unreasonable. I say this 
because Mrs M wanted to get back to the UK before further restrictions were imposed which 
made entering the UK difficult. I note that the new return flight Mrs M booked for her and her 
husband was considerably more expensive than the original return flight Mrs M had booked 
with N. But Mrs M told us she had no alternative but to find her own flight back to the UK 
given the extraordinary circumstances  she said all reasonably priced flights were booked 
by other travellers wanting to return to the UK which doesnt seem unreasonable to me given 
the state of affairs at that point. The new flight Mrs M booked departed on 30 March 2020 
(one day before Mrs Ms original return date). Overall, I accept Mrs M mitigated her costs 
and I dont find this to be an unreasonable option.
Having looked at Ns terms and conditions, the section about cancellation sets out the 
following under Article 11:
11.2.3 One of the following remedies will be available to you in the event that your flight is 
cancelled, re-routed or delayed by four hours or more for flights from Brazil, and five hours or 
more for all other flights:
a) We will take all reasonable measures to carry you to your final destination under 
comparable transport conditions at the earliest opportunity.
b) We will provide re-routing to your final destination at a later date at your convenience 
under comparable transport conditions, subject to availability of seats.
c)  In the case of re-routing to airports other than those in your Itinerary, we will, at our 
own expense, ensure that you are carried to the agreed destination.
d) If you do not accept the alternative options, we will provide a refund in accordance 
with Article 12.
11.2.4 Should some of the circumstances mentioned in 11.2.3 a), b), c) and d) occur, except 
as provided by applicable law, the remedies in Article 10 will be the only remedies available 
to you and we will accept no further liability to you. Liability will be limited in accordance with 
clause 16.4.
If this is, as it appears to be, a drafting error, and in fact the reference to Article 10 should be 
substituted with a reference to Article 11, the term is qualified with a general exception for 
where applicable law provides otherwise. I see no reason why this wouldnt include the 
applicable common law that where there has been a breach of contract, a consumer can 
claim damages resulting from that breach. Likewise, seeking to limit liability purely to the 
listed remedies could be considered unfair in terms of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
Under the common law, where a party has breached a contract, the other party can pay for a 
third party to cure the breach to put them in as good a position as if the original party had 
performed. Such cost will be recoverable from the original party providing it was not 
unreasonable. In Mrs Ms case, the action she took to cure the breach was reasonable in all 
the circumstances. The cure was proportionate  if Mrs M stayed in America until the 
replacement flight N were able to offer on 17 April 2020, she would have incurred further 
costs such as accommodation, food etc which likely would have cost more than the flights 
Mrs M chose to book to be able to get back to the UK quicker. But its possible that Mrs M 
and her husband could have been stuck in America for longer than the two weeks due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and further travel restrictions imposed - this would have led to Mrs M 
incurring even more costs. In addition, I think this type of loss was reasonably foreseeable at 
the time the contract was entered into. It was not unlikely that a failure to provide carriage 
would result in an alternative flight being purchased to cure the breach.
Clause 11.2.4 also limits Ns liability in accordance with clause 16.4. It says the following:16.4.1 We are liable for Damage occasioned by delay in the carriage by air of passengers, 
Baggage or cargo. Nevertheless, we shall not be liable for Damage occasioned by delay if 
we prove that we and our servants and agents took all measures reasonably be required to 
avoid the Damage, or that it was impossible for it or them to take such measures, cf. Article 
19 of the Montreal Convention 1999.
16.4.2 In the case of losses due to the delayed carriage of persons, liability is limited to 
5,346 SDRs.
16.4.3 In the case of losses due to the delayed carriage of Checked Baggage, liability is 
limited to 1,288 SDRs.
I dont find there is anything here which limits Mrs Ms claim for additional losses. The 
amount she is claiming does not exceed 5,346 SDRs. And Ive not been provided with 
anything from N to show they sought to prove they took all reasonable measures to avoid 
the damage. 
As a result of the new return flight going to a different airport, Mrs M had to get a taxi to the 
airport she departed from to be able to collect her car. Again, I dont think Mrs Ms actions 
were unreasonable and I dont think Mrs M would have suffered these losses had N not 
cancelled the return flight. Mrs M has provided evidence of the cost of the taxi and Im 
satisfied this loss, alongside the loss Mrs M suffered for the new return flight, were incurred 
as a result of the breach of contract  which was when Mrs Ms return flight got cancelled. 
So, I uphold this complaint and I think Santander should put things right for Mrs M.
Mrs M paid for the additional flights and taxi for both her and her husband. Im persuaded 
here that Mrs M had a common interest with her husband in the success of the contract. So, 
Mrs M personally suffers a loss to the extent that the common interest is defeated and may 
recover that loss. 
Putting things right
Mrs M has provided us with evidence to show she paid a total of £4,746.56 for the first-class 
tickets back to the UK for her and her husband. But as Mrs M has already received a partial 
refund of £319.80 for the return flight with N that was cancelled, I think this should be 
deducted from the £4,746.56. With that said, Santander should:
Pay Mrs M £4,426.76.
Pay Mrs M £85 for the taxi fare. 
Pay 8% simple interest on the above amounts from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.*
*If Santander UK Plc consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs M how much theyve taken off. They 
should also provide Mrs M with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to 
carry out the actions as set out in the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman