DRN-4272454
The complaint
Mr A and Ms S complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has unfairly refused 
to meet a claim for a damaged drain cover. 
What happened
Mr A and Ms S have an insurance policy with British Gas that, amongst other things, covers 
repairs to their domestic drains. They asked British Gas to sort out a problem with the drains 
and it sent a contractor out. That was early in 2023. Shortly after this Mr A and Ms S realised 
that the drain grate adjacent to their bathroom was broken and they asked British Gas to sort 
that out too. The alternative was they pay about £230 for a new grate.
After some debate, British Gas said its policy doesnt cover drain grates, so it wouldnt 
replace the grate. Mr A and Ms S complained: British Gas acknowledged it had provided a 
poor service in that it hadnt explained why the grate wasnt covered under the policy and 
offered £30 to make up for this. Mr A and Ms S asked us to review the complaint. 
Our investigator initially said he didnt think the damage was covered as there wasnt an 
insurable event  that is, none of the things covered under the drains part of the policy had 
occurred  for example the drains werent blocked.
Subsequent to this Mr A and Ms S said they believed the cover had been damaged by the 
contractor when he was initially clearing a problem with the drain. Ms S says she was shown 
the cover before the contractor worked on the drains and it was fine then, and that its 
plausible that the contractor broke the cover at the time. Our investigator thought that was a 
reasonable explanation of what had happened and asked British Gas to repair/replace the 
drain grate.
British Gas doesnt think this is fair  it says Mr A and Ms S only brought up the possibility of 
the cover being damaged by contractors after our investigator initially said the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Our investigator explained that Mr A and Ms S hadnt given much 
thought as to how the grate was damaged until our investigator discussed this with them late 
in the review process, but he thought their explanation of how it could have happened was 
plausible.
British Gas still objects to this, saying Mr A and Ms S would have been given worksheets 
from the contractor at the time, and theres no proof an accident occurred when the 
contractor worked on the previous repairs. Mr A and Ms S say they were never provided with 
these.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy terms and conditions
Setting aside the confusion caused by British Gas saying that the damage was covered and 
then deciding it wasnt, Ive carefully considered the basis for British Gas conclusions that 
grates arent covered. The policy provides cover for accidental damage to both plumbing and 
drains, and theres a helpful diagram of whats covered. That shows that pipework from sinks 
etc through drains are covered up to the property boundary. Ive seen a photo of the relevant 
drain and it clearly lies at the junction of the plumbing system and the drainage system, 
immediately outside the property and within the property boundary. 
The policy does however exclude certain items, and British Gas has relied upon one of these 
exclusions to say it need not meet the claim. The specific exclusion is that the policy doesnt 
cover manholes or their covers. I havent seen the definition of manhole that British Gas 
used when it decided the grate was such a cover, but I believe the general definition of a 
manhole cover is that it is solid, and provides access to inspection chambers, generally for 
main drains leading to sewers, and that such chambers are generally some distance from 
the property rather than right next to it. Grates on the other hand are generally small and 
porous as they function to prevent debris (like leaves) from entering the drains.
Im not persuaded by British Gas argument that the grate in question is a manhole cover as 
is generally understood. So I currently think the policy is unclear on this point, in that it 
doesnt clearly exclude grates between internal pipes and external drains. British Gas is the 
expert here and responsible for the clarity of the policy terms and conditions. If it wanted to 
exclude grates like the one here then it could have made that clear in the terms and 
conditions. It didnt do that, and in these circumstances, where theres a reasonable 
expectation that such items are covered, its fair to interpret them in favour of the customer. I 
note that Mr A and Ms S say that during the earlier repairs the contractor replaced another of 
their grates without questioning if it was covered by the policy. That also supports my 
thinking that the exclusion isnt clear enough.  
Insurable event
To trigger cover, an insurable event must have occurred. Looking at the policy, the only 
relevant event would be accidental damage. Im persuaded the grate is covered under this 
term. Mr A and Ms S say that the contractor looked at the grate with them when they 
attended to clear a blocked drain a relatively short time before their latest claim, and it was 
undamaged then. I have no reason to doubt this. Mr A and Ms S say the most likely 
explanation for the damage is that the contractor then damaged the grate, presumably 
accidentally. I think thats plausible. And I dont think we need proof that the grate was 
damaged by a contractor. Its unlikely that the damage was caused by wear and tear in only 
a few weeks, and on balance its reasonable to conclude the damage was accidentally 
caused in some way. 
I do understand that British Gas says theres no proof of this and that Mr A and Ms S should 
have been given reports of work carried out whenever a contractor visited. Mr A and Ms S 
say they never received anything, and I see no reason to disbelieve them, but it does mean 
theres no record of the work for either party to rely upon. I note that Mr A and Ms S say that 
during the earlier repairs the contractor replaced another of their grates without questioning if 
it was covered by the policy. I see no reason to doubt this.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I think it fair and reasonable for British Gas to meet the 
claim. If it wants to settle this as a cash payment, then it should pay Mr A and Ms S £230 as 
thats the amount theyve been quoted to get the work done. Id usually say that if Mr A and 
Ms S choose the cash option British Gas could discount payment to reflect what it would 
have paid. I dont think thats appropriate here given the time its taken to sort this claim out. In summary I think British Gas should settle the claim by either paying £230 or by getting the 
work done for Mr A and Ms S.
Mr A and Ms S have spent a considerable time trying to resolve this complaint, and I agree 
they should be compensated for this in the sum our investigator recommended - £200. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to meet 
the claim as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman