DRN-4372682
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse her after she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mrs G is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mrs G throughout this decision. 
Mrs G received a message from someone who said they were from a recruitment agency. 
The message said that Mrs Gs details had been found on its database and that a company 
was looking for applicants for multiple positions. Details of one position were sent to Mrs G. 
The job involved working 30 to 60 minutes a day and earning 600 to 900 USDT a week.
Mrs G then received messages from someone else who said he was an agent of a company 
Ill call C. This person provided Mrs G with a link to Cs website and said that C was a 
software development company and that the job was, to drive software to a more visible 
page, making the software more popular. Mrs G then received a registration link and code 
to set up an account on Cs platform. 
Mrs G says she was told shed receive tasks to review 40 apps and would receive 
commission, but to initiate tasks she needed to pay funds upfront (although she was advised 
these funds would be returned with her commission). Mrs G was also required to open an 
account at a cryptocurrency exchange and to link it to her account with C so that she could 
be paid in cryptocurrency. On 29 November 2022 Mrs G made two payments of £2,500 
around half an hour apart. I understand that both payments went to a company that would 
send USDT into Mrs Gs cryptocurrency account. 
Mrs G successfully completed the tasks for the first couple of days but as time went on the 
tasks became expensive and Mrs G had to pay more to release her funds. She became 
concerned and contacted the genuine company C and was told that it wasnt involved in 
paying commission for tasks to be completed. 
Mrs G didnt report what had happened to Monzo but instructed a representative who sent a 
letter of complaint in March 2023. Monzo responded to this and said Mrs G authorised the 
transactions and was shown an appropriate warning prior to making the first payment. 
Monzo went on to say that Mrs G didnt seem to have questioned the true identity of C or 
completed enough checks before making the payments. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. She 
noted that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM 
Code) doesnt apply, but Monzo should have recognised the second payment was unusual 
and asked questions about it which would have prevented the loss. But Mrs G should share 
responsibility for her loss for various reasons including the fact she was messaged out of the 
blue, the genuine C doesnt perform the service Mrs G was asked to do, there was no 
contract and Mrs G provided an inadequate explanation for the use of unregulated 
cryptocurrency. 
Monzo didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said:
- It has systems in place to detect unusual payments, but Mrs Gs transactions didnt 
trigger them. 
- Its not uncommon for customers to make higher value payments for larger 
purchases or to consolidate loans and it cant be expected to intervene in all of them. 
- The spending wasnt rapid as funds entered the account some time before the 
payments were made. 
Mrs G asked me to consider some points which I have summarised below:
- This was a sophisticated job scam using a clone of a genuine software company and 
Mrs Gs checks didnt identify anything alarming.
- The messaging app used is a recognised social media platform used by employers 
and other professionals.
- Remote access part-time jobs arent unusual, and it was Mrs Gs first experience of 
one so she didnt know what to expect or how it would differ from an office-based job.
- Mrs G received a contract from C.
- Mrs G went through an induction process, training and had access to an employee 
chat forum.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
Mrs Gs funds went to a company that was registered on Companies House as a computer 
technology business days before her transfers. Im uncertain exactly what happened but it 
appears Mrs G bought USTD that was credited to a cryptocurrency account in her own name 
before being transferred to the scammers wallet. The CRM Code only applies to faster 
payments between UK GDP accounts, so it isnt relevant here. In any event, I consider the 
overall outcome of this complaint would be the same under the CRM Code.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Monzo should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. In this case, I dont consider Monzo acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the first 
payment to be made. It was for a relatively small amount and an unusual pattern of 
payments hadnt emerged. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all 
payments such as this were stopped while further enquiries were made, many legitimate 
payments would be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay.
Mrs G made a second payment of £2,500 very shortly afterwards meaning that shed 
transferred £5,000 to a new payee in a short timescale. This was unusual for her given her 
previous payment history and I agree with the investigator that Monzo ought reasonably to 
have intervened and asked what the payment was for and other questions to satisfy itself 
Mrs G wasnt at risk of financial harm. In the twelve-month period before this, the highest 
value transaction Mrs G made was for just over £500, so there was a sudden increase in 
spending with payments made in quick succession. 
I see no reason why Mrs G wouldnt have told the truth about the reason for the payment, in 
which case I think the scam would quickly have been uncovered. Legitimate employers dont 
ask people to make upfront payments and job scams like this have become more prevalent. 
Monzo, as the expert here, should have been well aware of this. Im not satisfied Monzos 
on-screen warning which asked if it could be a scam went far enough and its clear it didnt 
resonate with Mrs G.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mrs G should share responsibility for her loss. Im satisfied 
that she should, broadly because the opportunity she was offered didnt sound genuine and I 
think Mrs G should have completed more checks before getting involved. Ive set out below 
some of my reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
- Mrs G received unexpected contact via a messaging app from someone who said 
they were from a recruitment company. The messages only showed an unknown 
number and there was no evidence that the person messaging was from the genuine 
recruitment company. Its also unusual to receive contact about genuine roles in this 
way.
- The next person to contact Mrs G said they had got her details from Amanda, but 
this wasnt the name given by the person who said they were from a recruitment 
company. I cant see that Mrs G questioned this. 
- I note that Mrs G told the recruitment agent she only wanted a certain type of role. 
This role was very different to those covered by the legitimate recruitment company 
the person claimed to be from, which recruits in construction, civil engineering, rail 
and utilities, and logistics management. If Mrs G had researched the recruitment 
company shed have seen this. 
- There was nothing to link the person who messaged Mrs G and said they were from 
C with the genuine company. 
- Theres no mention on the genuine company Cs website of reviewing apps so Im 
uncertain how Mrs G thought that what she was doing related to that company. 
- Mrs G didnt receive a contract to set out the terms of her agreement with C. I have 
been provided with a Legal Notice, but this doesnt set out any terms or relate 
specifically to Mrs G.   
- The payments Mrs G made werent to C but to a totally different company. I havent 
been provided with a plausible explanation for this and consider this ought to have 
concerned Mrs G. 
- Its also hard to understand how it was plausible that Mrs G needed to pay funds 
upfront which would later be refunded with her commission or how cryptocurrency 
was involved. - Mrs Gs representative has said she went through an induction and was trained but 
no evidence of this has been provided.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs G should be awarded 50% of the second payment of £2,500 
plus interest as set out below. 
I would expect Monzo to contact the bank or other firm that received Mrs Gs funds promptly 
to try to recover them. Ive seen confidential evidence which shows that Mrs Gs funds were 
used up very soon after they reached the account they were paid into and before she 
contacted Monzo about the scam. So Monzo couldnt have recovered Mrs Gs lost funds. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear that Mrs G has lost funds in this way, I cant reasonably ask 
Monzo to refund her in full. 
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Pay Mrs G £1,250; and
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement. 
If Monzo Bank Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs 
G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman