DRN-4046696
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Astrenska Insurance Limited which provides him with a policy 
for a guaranteed courtesy car in the event his car is deemed a total loss or is damaged to 
the extent its undriveable. He says Astrenska didnt provide him a car when he needed one.
Astrenska provides the policy which is administered by its agent whom Ill refer to when 
necessary as A. But Astrenska, as the underwriter of this policy, i.e. the insurer, has 
accepted it is accountable for the actions of A. So any failure by A, is a failure of Astrenska.
What happened
Mr C was involved in an accident on 27 November 2021. He made calls that day and on 
6 December 2021 spoke to Astrenskas agent. Mr C was expecting to get a courtesy car 
even whilst his motor insurer, handling the accident claim, was deliberating his cover  after 
all Mr C had taken the policy with Astrenska to ensure he would remain mobile in the event 
of an accident.
Astrenska did not provide Mr C with a courtesy car in December 2021. Astrenska later told 
Mr C that after speaking to him on 6 December 2021, it had not heard from him or his insurer 
again until January 2022. But Astrenska did agree to pay Mr C what he would have been 
entitled to under the policy had it progressed a claim for him  i.e. £40 a day for the hire 
period covered where a car cant be (in this case wasnt) provided  £840 in total. It also paid 
Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it accepted it had caused him 
by not providing a car for him to use.
Mr C said that wasnt sufficient. He noted that by the time Astrenska made this offer it was 
long after the accident date and he had been without a car from the date of the accident until 
his car insurer provided him a courtesy car under its policy towards the end of January 2022. 
He felt that had caused him a lot of problems  even though Astrenskas cover would only 
have given him a car for part of that time. Mr C said that if hed had a car from Astrenska in 
December 2021, as the policy had entitled him to, he wouldnt have missed picking up 
important medication or collecting his personal belongings that hed had in storage whilst he 
moved home. But, Mr C said, Astreskas error meant he couldnt do either of those things. 
Mr C explained that he eventually got replacement medication at the end of January 2022, 
but he was unable to retrieve his stored items, because not having a car meant he hadnt 
been able to work. That meant, he said, that he hadnt been able to pay to keep up the 
storage, and the storage company ultimately sold his possessions at auction and still came 
to him for costs, which it said were outstanding and not covered by the auction proceeds.   
Our Investigator felt that Astrenska should reimburse Mr Cs travel costs referenced by him 
in an email to it dated 18 December 2021, of £201, plus interest. Also, the cost for storing 
items in December 2021, plus interest. Finally, our Investigator felt that Astrenska should 
pay Mr C a further £400 compensation for upset hed experienced during the period in which 
he should have had a car for use but didnt due to Astrenskas error. 
Mr C was unhappy with the findings. He didnt think they went far enough, not given what he 
saw as the significant and long-term impact of Astrenskas error on his health and finances. 
And Astrenska said it couldnt agree to paying the storage costs. Both asked for an 
Ombudsmans consideration and the complaint was passed to me.
 
I felt it should be upheld in part  with Astrenska paying Mr C a total of £750 compensation. 
That was because I was satisfied that Astrenska failed Mr C, and whilst that failure only 
occurred over a short period (due to the term of the policy), I accepted that it had a very 
significant impact on him. However, I wasnt persuaded to make it pay anything more than 
that, in respect of compensation, or any other award. So I issued a provisional decision to 
explain my views on everything to both parties. My provisional findings were: 
Astrenskas policy is one a driver pays extra for on top of their standard car insurance. It is 
something that is designed to provide added peace of mind to drivers who have an accident. 
It makes the provision of a courtesy car, so that the driver can stay mobile, a certainty which 
often is not provided by standard car insurance cover. And Mr C had taken the step of 
choosing and paying for this extra cover. But he did not get the peace of mind or service 
promised. Instead he was left without a car at a crucial time for him.
When Mr C had the accident he had just moved home  in fact was in the middle of moving 
his possessions into his new home. He wasnt familiar with the area and he says it was more 
rural than where he had been living. I can completely understand that it was really important 
for Mr C to be mobile at this time. And given the policy with Astrenska he had paid for, he 
should have been.
However, when Mr C contacted A and spoke with it in December  which Im satisfied did 
happen  A seems to have completely overlooked the type of policy Mr C had with 
Astrenska and which it was meant to administer. I say that as A often deals with providing 
cars to drivers in different circumstances to those allowed for by the Astrenska policy. But A 
didnt take account of the policy Mr C had or what it was meant to provide to him as a result. 
Not until much later when it paid him £840. This means that A failed Mr C in this respect, and 
as A acts, in this situation, only as Astrenskas agent, that failure is Astrenskas. Astrenska 
has to make up for that. 
I know that Mr C believes that Astrenska would have to do a lot in that respect  possibly 
paying him £20,000 for his lost belongings, because that is the value of the insurance cover 
hed paid for them whilst in storage, and what the storage company says he still owes it. Also 
likely paying him some significant sums for wages he didnt earn as he couldnt work. Further 
Mr C is worried that Astrenskas actions affected his long-term physical and mental health, 
the latter of which at least has prevented him from working since. And I can see why, from 
where Mr C is sitting, that he thinks all of these issues are inextricably linked to Astrenskas 
failure to provide the cover he had paid for and was entitled to  that but for its failure 
everything would be different. But Im not persuaded that is the case.
Mr Cs accident occurred on 6 December 2021. The storage company called for a monthly 
direct debit on 16 December 2021, but Mr C did not have enough funds in his account for it 
to be paid. And the contract he had with the storage company says that any missed payment 
will allow it to seize his goods. And Ive seen nothing that shows he could most likely have 
worked in the days immediately after 6 December to achieve income in time to secure funds 
into his account to cover the direct debit on 16 December, just ten days after the accident.   
I know Mr C will likely say that if hed been able to work hed have made the missed payment 
up and that would have forestalled the later action taken by the storage company to sell his 
goods. But I note that Mr C seems to have paid his November storage charges late too, on 
25 November by credit card rather than around the 10  16 of the month by direct debit, as 
his December bank statement and paperwork from the storage company suggests was 
usually the case. And I note that in the start of December, Mr Cs bank account was already around its overdraft limit  with his outgoings that month fairly equal to his incomings. So 
I think his financial situation was quite finely balanced regardless of his ability to drive.  
Im also mindful that the cover with Astrenska would only ever have given Mr C a courtesy 
car for 21 days, until 27 December 2021  and he didnt get a car under his car insurance 
policy for about another month after that, towards the end of January 2022. So hed always, 
by the end of December 2021, have been in a position where he had no car to drive. Given 
his finances then its by no means clear to me that hed likely have been able to make up 
Decembers storage payment, or pay Januarys. So I cant be satisfied that the loss of Mr Cs 
possessions caused by the storage company auctioning them or the costs for storage he 
wasnt able to meet, on balance, came about due to Astrenskas failure.
In terms of working, I havent seen that Mr C worked in the days or weeks running up to 
6 December 2021, or that he had arranged to work at any time during December but had to 
cancel due to a lack of transport. I appreciate that Mr C may have chosen not to work in the 
period he was moving home  but as he was still moving on 6 December 2021, and with no 
evidence of work having been booked in advance for the week or so after that, I cant be 
sure when or if hed likely have worked if hed had transport. So Im not persuaded that the 
fact he didnt work in December 2021 was most likely due to Astrenskas failure. And, as 
I noted above, even if Astrenska had given him a car on 6 December, as it should have 
done, hed have been without one again by the new year.
Mr Cs health is clearly another major concern for him. As I understand it his mental health 
became affected by the difficult financial position he found himself in in late 2021 and early 
2022, which worsened as time went on. But it was also affected by worries about his 
physical health. Mr C has a condition that requires management by medication. And any 
break in taking medication can affect the long-term prospects for the progress of that 
condition. At the time of the accident Mr C had been due to pick up a prescription of 
medication from what had been his local hospital  which, in December 2021, was then over 
100 miles from Mr Cs home. Mr C had planned to drive and get the medication  but without 
a car, and with stretched finances, felt it just wasnt possible for him to get there. The 
medication Mr C had, ran out in early January and he wasnt able to get more until the end of 
January 2022.
I really appreciate that this was a very worrying time for Mr C. And I think its clear to see 
that, in December 2021, he had some very difficult things to wrestle with. But I bear in mind 
that on 15 December 2021, even with Astrenska having so far failed to provide the car to 
Mr C for nine days, and with only a few weeks of medication left, Mr C did take a train 
journey of some 250 miles which he has asked Astrenska to reimburse him for. Hes said 
this was to collect some items from another storage unit he had, which hed have otherwise 
done by car at a lower cost. Clearly these items must have been vitally important to Mr C. 
But so was his medication  and a train journey from Mr Cs home to that hospital would 
have cost much less than the journey he took to collect belongings. Difficult though the situation was, I think Astrenskas failure in the days after the incident, to 
provide the services contracted for, should reasonably have put Mr C on notice that it was 
not honouring the contract and there was a distinct possibility that it never would, that a car 
was not going to be made available to him. And though I appreciate the many difficulties 
Mr C faced, he had a responsibility to mitigate the unfair and unreasonable position 
Astrenska had left him in. In the circumstances, I think it wouldve been entirely reasonable 
for Mr C to have taken steps which meant his health was prioritised. Let me be clear, 
Astrenska should not have left Mr C in a position where he was having to choose which was 
most important to him, vital belongings or his health. It was entirely unfair and unreasonable 
of it that the cover he had chosen to pay for did not provide the service promised. He could 
likely have travelled by car to both destinations for the price of the train tickets hes asked 
Astrenska to reimburse. So I do think that him having to make this difficult choice was its 
fault  but I trust Mr C will understand that I cant blame it for the ultimate decision he came 
to, which resulted in him running out of medication in early January 2022. Which means 
I also cant blame Astrenska for the upset and worry, including any effects on his mental 
health or impact on his physical condition which he experienced as a result of that.  
As Ive noted above, the travel costs Mr C would like Astrenska to reimburse are, I think, a 
cost hed always have had. Not caused by travelling in that way  but by the cost of fuel and 
other applicable charges incurred driving to both of those destinations. So Astrenskas failure 
did not cause him to spend funds that would otherwise have remained at his disposal. So 
I cant reasonably require Astrenska to reimburse that outlay. 
Im conscious that, when Mr C reads this, by this point in my decision, he will likely be very 
upset, and maybe even angry with my findings. I completely understand that  he has 
suffered a lot and, as I mentioned above, from his point of view it all flows back to this error 
by Astrenska. I do hope that Mr C will be able to see from my findings though why I cant 
reasonably come to that conclusion. I also hope hell be able to see that I have found that 
Astrenska did fail him and that I do think it left him in an extremely difficult position at a time 
when things were already stretched, and when hed acted prudently, by taking out this cover, 
to try and avoid such a negative situation from occurring. 
Its also quite clear to me that, by 18 December 2021 Mr C had been putting in a lot of effort 
to try and get answers from Astrenska. This is explained in his email to it of that date and 
includes time spent on hold calling it and requested call backs not being honoured. And in 
that email Mr C explained that his mental health was being affected by not having a car (as 
he reasonably should have had under the cover). Mr C then spoke with Astrenska on 
20 December 2021, and it received his email that day too. But still a car wasnt provided and 
seemingly all Astrenska did in response to the email contact was get in touch with Mr Cs car 
insurer. This was a situation which seemed to reoccur in January 2022, with Astrenska, 
albeit it was A on its behalf, never accepting that it needed to act to give Mr C a car. I can 
understand how frustrating this was for Mr C and I accept it wont have helped his state of 
mind at that time.
So Astrenskas failure made Mr Cs already difficult position much more precarious, causing 
him more worry and, at times, to have had to make impossibly difficult choices. Im also 
satisfied its intransigence and refusal to assist likely did have some impact on Mr Cs state of 
mind. And Mr C clearly put in a lot of effort to try and resolve things, all to no avail. It is in 
light of all of that, that I do think total compensation of £750 is fairly and reasonably due. 
Astrenska did not reply to my findings.Mr C said he disagreed with them. He said:
My partiality had to be questioned.
I overlooked that he had already given notice on the storage unit he emptied on 
15 December.
Its not reasonable for me to ask the open question of how 21 days of car hire would 
have changed things  clearly hed have got his items out of the other storage unit.
Ive shown ineptitude by saying he had a duty to mitigate, when that is exactly what he 
did on 15 December by closing a virtually empty storage unit.
Astrenska didnt give him any notice it was breaching/going to breach their contract, so 
what possible mitigation action could he have taken, especially given the notice to quit.
The decision has been written with the intention of personally insulting him, but only 
insults the Ombudsman herself.
He had an issue with his bank in November and December too  which has also been 
the subject of a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge and understand the impact of my provisional findings on Mr C and can assure 
him that they were not written with any ill-intent towards him. I really appreciate that he was 
left in a very difficult position by Astrenskas failure  that it failed him when he needed it and 
he was left in a very difficult position as a result. But, in order to determine what Astrenska 
must do to put that right, I have to make decisions about how that failure affected Mr C  
what would have happened but for its failure. And, on this occasion my view on that is 
different from the view Mr C holds. Im sorry for the upset my views in this respect have 
caused Mr C and will cause him on receipt of my final decision.
I was aware that, before 6 December, Mr C had given notice to quit the unit he closed on 
15 December. But I didnt, and dont, think that was a good reason to prioritise travelling to 
that unit over very serious and significant health matters which could otherwise have been 
attended to. Of course Astrenska did not give Mr C formal notice that it was going to breach 
their contract. But I think its actions in the days after 6 December, before Mr C took his 
journey to the nearly empty storage unit on 15 December, made it clear that it was not 
performing as contracted, and likely would not do so. 
Mr C may well have had issues with his bank. But I havent seen that they impacted the 
situation Im considering here.   
Having considered the complaint again, even in light of Mr Cs comments made in reply to 
my provisional findings, my view hasnt changed. With regret for the upset this will cause 
Mr C, my provisional findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, my 
final decision.  
  
Putting things right
I require Astrenska to pay Mr C a further £600 compensation, where my total award is £750 
but £100 has already been paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman