DRN-3790693
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Post Office Management Services Limited mis-sold her a travel 
insurance policy as the policy exclusions were not explained.
Mrs R is represented by Mr R  for simplicity I shall just to refer to the representations as 
being made by Mrs R.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary 
Mrs R purchased an annual travel insurance policy. She complained that the policy didnt 
cover various risks and she wasnt given a hard copy of the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. Mrs R appealed. As no 
agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say if theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I find is the right outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I recognise that my decision will come as very disappointing news to Mrs R. However, the 
issue for me to determine here is whether Post Office Management Services did anything 
wrong. I dont find it did and Ill give my reasons as to why that is: 
Mrs R purchased the policy via a comparison website. The sale was non-advised. 
Nevertheless Post Office Management Services was obliged to ensure that Mrs R 
was given appropriate information about the policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form that so that she could make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed. Im satisfied that the information given about the policy and 
its benefits was clear, fair and not misleading.
I do understand that this sale was a while ago and it may be that there is some 
confusion as to how the policy was purchased. Mrs R says that the policy was 
purchased by phone, although the Post Office have no calls from her on the day of 
purchase. She has also said to this service that the policy was purchased online. 
Nevertheless it is not in dispute that the policy was purchased and policy details sent 
to the email address that was given by Mrs R, or on her behalf, during the sale. Mrs 
R had confirmed that email was her preferred method on contact. Im grateful to Mrs 
R for providing photographs of the documentation she was given. The policy 
certificate sent to Mrs R required her to check all the details carefully and contact us 
(the Post Office) as soon as possible if any changes are required. It also said: To 
make sure that the cover provided meets your needs it is very important that you 
read this certificate in conjunction with the Policy Wording which contains the full 
terms and conditions. You should also read the Insurance Product Information 
Document.
Additionally during the sales process Mrs R required to declare that the cover she 
was purchasing met her needs and that she had had the opportunity to view, read 
and download the policy documents. She did so. I havent disregarded the 
submission that Mrs R isnt good with soft technology but Post Office Management 
Services werent made aware of this, nor is there any evidence that Mrs R made 
contact to request documentation in another format. Accordingly Im not satisfied that 
Post Office Management Services made any error or omission  it presented Mrs R 
with enough information for her to make an informed choice about whether to 
purchase the policy.
It was open to Mrs R to change her mind and cancel within 14 days of receiving the 
policy documents, but she didnt exercise this option.
I do appreciate that Mrs R felt that the policy Post Office Management Services 
should have advised her that the policy underwriter was changing. But as this didnt 
mean that the terms of her policy changed at that time I dont find this means the 
policy was mis-sold or that she was mis-advised.
In all the circumstances I dont find that the policy was mis-sold to Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman