DRN-3933573
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
It seems Mrs S was tricked into adding her card to Apple Pay  and fraudsters then 
made two card payments to top up a newly created account with Revolut. So I dont 
think it was Mrs S that went through the agreed steps to consent to these payments  
it follows theyre unauthorised. 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs S isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
I dont agree with Monzo that Mrs S failed with gross negligence. Shes explained 
she wanted to cancel her Amazon Prime membership, so the call from Amazon 
made sense at the time. She also said they had details of her Monzo account, and 
the original caller passed her thorough to a different department as she was due a 
refund from cancelling her membership.  
Given the timing, the personal details they knew and the sophistication of the set-up, 
I can see why Mrs S believed she was talking with a trusted business  I think a lot of 
people wouldve done. 
In saying that, Ive considered Monzos point that they didnt use a spoofed number. 
Mrs S said she didnt think about it at the time  she just answered the call. And 
given everything else they did to legitimise who they were, I can see how the number 
didnt ring alarm bells. Im also mindful that most people dont regularly receive calls 
from Amazon to know how theyd appear on your phone. 
Mrs S was led to believe she was due a refund and that needed to be paid back 
using Apple Pay. As she didnt know how to do it, they offered to help her and asked 
her to download remote access software. 
Monzo submit that Mrs S received refunds before  so she ought to have questioned 
why Apple Pay was needed here. But businesses have different ways of doing things 
 so I dont think Mrs S acted with very significant carelessness for believing what 
she was told by the business she trusted. 
Monzo also point out that the steps Mrs S followed to set up Apple Pay didnt 
mention a refund. But I can see how, in the moment, it seemed plausible that it 
needed to be set up for a refund to be received. And Ive noted theres nothing to 
clearly warn her in these steps that Apple Pay was being set up on another device 
and that could be used for making payments. So I can understand why Mrs S didnt 
question this and instead focussed on their instructions, thinking that theyd offered to 
help with a payment method that wasnt familiar to her. I dont think she seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk here  to say that she failed with gross negligence. 
Monzo also suggest she shouldve been alarmed by the use of remote access. Its 
not clear that remote access was used or needed for these particular payments. But 
either way, Im mindful this was cleverly framed as an offer of help, when Mrs S said 
she didnt know how to do it herself. So I can see how she didnt recognise there was 
a risk at the time, particularly when she trusted the caller and thought theyd the 
expertise in the matter. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Mrs S failed with gross negligence. So, I 
conclude she isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo need to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside 8% simple 
interest per year to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Monzo shouldve refunded this much sooner  Mrs S has explained that because it 
didnt, she went into her overdraft by around £70. So, Monzo should also refund any 
fees and charges, alongside correcting any negative credit file reporting  but only 
where the overdraft wouldve been avoided had the refund been provided sooner. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Mrs S the total of the unauthorised transactions (I understand this to be 
£414.00), less any funds that have been refunded or recovered.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Refund any fees and charges, alongside correcting any negative credit file reporting 
 but only where Mrs Ss overdraft wouldve been avoided had the refund been 
provided sooner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman