DRN-4275633
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money provided them 
with poor customer service.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G hold a joint current account with Virgin Money (which was previously operated 
by another bank), which operates on an either signature basis and it doesnt require both 
account holders to take action on the account. Mrs G attempted to make a debit card 
payment, but the payment was rejected as she was unable to complete Virgin Moneys two 
stage verification process. Mr G was then able to make the payment using his card. Mr G 
rang Virgin Money to update their phone details.  
Mrs and Mr G say the call handler insisted on speaking to Mrs G even though the account 
was joint, and she was distressed on the call. They say the call handler refused to transfer 
them to a manager after they asked for this. Mrs and Mr G say they received a letter jointly in 
2019 which requested a mobile number from them to assist with two stage verification and 
they provided a mobile number for both of them, yet Virgin Money had a landline number 
attached to Mrs Gs profile. Mrs and Mr G made a complaint to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money partially upheld Mrs and Mr Gs complaint. It said the correct security process 
was being followed for updating personal details, but it accept the service received during 
the call could have been better, so it credited £40 to their account. Mr and Mrs G brought 
their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the £40 compensation was fair. He said the call handler they spoke 
to could have clearly explained what she needed and why. He said it was appropriate to 
speak to Mrs G if they received a request to update her contact details, and as it was up to 
Virgin Money to decide its own security process, he couldnt say it was unfair by asking Mrs 
G security questions, even if they were difficult for her to answer.
Mrs and Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they provided us a letter from the bank who owned the account prior to 
Virgin Money taking over control of the account. This letter requested they provided a mobile 
phone number due to their introduction of two stage verification, and it didnt say they 
needed a mobile number for each person, and this was Mrs Gs mobile number in 2019 
when they received this letter. They said while Mrs G was subjected to Virgin Moneys 
inquisition, Mr G was not asked the same questions when he provided it with his new mobile 
number. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr G have made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read 
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr G have said about the letter they received in 2019 
regarding the two stage verification. The letter is addressed to both of them and says Tell us 
your mobile number and well hold this on your customer record. So this sets out that the 
mobile would be held on a customer record and not an account record. Its probable that the 
bank would need to speak to both Mr and Mrs G to record the mobile number  even if this is 
the same mobile number. I say this based on the wording customer record. So I would not 
expect a financial institution to allow one customer to be able to make changes to another 
customers personal details, even if they hold a joint account together, without the other 
customers authority. 
So I asked Virgin Money if they had a copy of the call, so I could hear how the conversation 
went in July 2019. But there is no copy of the call. So Im unable to determine if both Mrs 
and Mr G were on the call to update the telephone number (as they would need to update 
their own customer record). But it would appear that the customer record for only Mr G was 
updated with the mobile number and not Mrs G and so Im unable to say what happened on 
this call one way or another.
Therefore, the number which Virgin Money received from the previous bank for Mrs G 
appears to be an old landline number  which they dont have anymore. Virgin Money have 
confirmed that Mr Gs contact number was updated to the mobile number after the call in 
July 2019, but the landline number associated with Mrs Gs customer record was not 
removed until it was replaced with the mobile number on 21 December 2022. So as there 
was a landline number on Mrs Gs customer record at the time she tried to make a purchase 
using her debit card, this is why she was unable to complete the two stage verification. So 
the only way that this would change moving forward, is if Virgin Money were notified of her 
mobile number.
So Ive listened to the call Mrs and Mr G had with Virgin Money where they updated their 
contact details. Mr G is speaking to the call handler and the call handler confirms that the 
mobile number had only been added for Mr G and not Mrs G. The call handler says she 
needs to go through security with Mrs G before she could make any changes to her account. 
Mr G tells her it is a joint account and asks to speak to a supervisor and the call handler tells 
her no. Mr G is audibly taken aback by this and asks to make a complaint. The rapport of 
the call descends as both parties talk over each other, and the conversation is fraught.
Mrs G then speaks to the call handler. The call handler goes through security to remove the 
landline number from her customer record. She asks Mrs G details about her credit card and 
a question about a direct debit, which Mr G answers and Mrs G tells the call handler. The 
call handler then asks a question about another payment and again Mr G says the answer 
and Mrs G tells the call handler the answer. 
The call handler then asks Mrs G if she would like to add a mobile number to the account or 
to just remove the landline number. The conversation breaks down again around the 13 
minute mark of the call and the call handler says no, Im Im just asking a question, if you 
could please answer the question in response to the comments Mr G made. The call 
handler confirms there is no mobile number for Mrs G, and the conversation becomes 
fraught again, with the call handler saying if they are going to continue shouting she would 
need to terminate the call. 
Mrs G tells the call handler the mobile number that she wants adding and the call handler 
says thats been added to her account. Mr G then asks for his mobile number to be updated. The call handler tells Mr G the ending of the mobile number he has and asks for 
the mobile number he wants to add, which Mr G tells her, and the call handler updates Mr 
Gs contact details, but without completing security with him. The call ends on a positive note 
after the complaint is raised.
Im satisfied that the call could have been handled better on both sides. Mr G made a 
number of remarks which could be insulting to the call handler which were very audible 
during the call due to his frustration at how the call was handled, in response, the call 
handler became defensive and at one point threatened to terminate the call. This potentially 
could have been avoided if the call handler had clearly explained at the outset that each joint 
account holder had a customer record attached to them and in order to update a customer 
record with a phone number, she needed to speak to the actual customer. But the call 
handler kept referring to the customer account and not the customer record, and as a 
result of not fully explaining this, the call got off to a bad start which rarely recovered. 
Id like to explain to Mrs and Mr G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business 
how to run their security processes or procedures such as who they should speak to when 
completing security or what questions they ask. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who have the power to instruct Virgin Money to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
But its clear the call handler didnt follow the security processes throughout the call. I say 
this as it was audible that Mr G was giving Mrs G the answers to the questions about the 
direct debit. So either the call handler should have told Mrs G that she couldnt accept 
answers given on her behalf, or if she was able to accept answers given on Mrs Gs behalf, 
then she could have just asked Mr G the questions originally. So Im persuaded that this 
undermined the security process here. 
In addition to this, when Mr G updated his mobile number, he was not asked any security 
questions. Again, this undermined Virgin Moneys security process. And it could appear to 
Mrs and Mr G that Mrs G had been asked the security questions for nothing when the call 
handler didnt ask Mr G any security questions. 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Virgin Money credited £40 
to Mrs and Mr Gs account. But Im persuaded this does not reflect the impact on them with 
how the call was handled. Early in the call, the call handler told Mr G he couldnt speak to a 
manager, despite it being a reasonable request, but it wasnt really explained why he 
couldnt speak to a manager. The way the security process was handled was distressing for 
both Mr and Mrs G as it wasnt accurately explained why Mr G couldnt update Mrs Gs 
details and these factors led to the rapport very quickly breaking down on both sides.
Im satisfied that an extra £60 to total £100 is in line with our guidance for compensation for 
what happened here and this is reasonable. It is Virgin Moneys process to ask the customer 
whose details are to be changed the security questions, so I cant say that the call handler 
shouldnt have asked Mrs G security questions when updating the mobile number, even if 
this made her uncomfortable answering these questions. But they didnt follow the security 
process for Mr G. So I intend to ask Virgin Money to put things right for Mrs and Mr G.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Virgin Money did not respond to my provisional decision. Mrs and Mr G made a 
number of points in response to the provisional decision. In summary, they said they 
presumed that the customers record would be part of the customers account and they said 
my provisional decision at various points mentions a phone number being added to the 
account and not the customer record. They said the mobile number supplied was Mrs Gs 
mobile number and should have been used for her two stage verification. They said if Virgin Money decides that the number supplied only applies to the male side of marriage then this 
would be gender discrimination. 
Mrs and Mr G said there was no way Mrs G could have ever answered the security 
questions because she was incapable of doing this and this appeared to be age 
discrimination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mrs and Mr Gs response to the provisional 
decision. And Im not going to respond to every single point made by them. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Mrs and Mr G have raised gender and age discrimination points with how Virgin Money have 
treated Mrs G. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  
given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable. If Mrs and Mr G want a decision that Virgin Money has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, then theyd need to go to Court. However, based on what Mrs and Mr G 
have said in relation to Virgin Money discriminating against Mrs G, I am not persuaded that 
Virgin Money treated Mrs G any differently to other customers in similar situations, and I will 
explain why.
While Mrs and Mr G presumed the customer record would be part of the customer account, 
as I said in my provisional decision the letter they were sent in 2019 sets out that the mobile 
would be held on a customer record and not an account record. Its probable that the bank 
would need to speak to both Mr and Mrs G to record the mobile number  even if this is the 
same mobile number. I say this based on the wording customer record. So I would not 
expect a financial institution to allow one customer to be able to make changes to another 
customers personal details, even if they hold a joint account together, without the other 
customers authority. 
I dont have any evidence from either side that Mrs G spoke to the bank in 2019 to update 
her customer record with her mobile number. While I have seen the information Mrs and Mr 
G have sent me that the mobile number is now in Mrs Gs name, this is not evidence that 
she spoke to the bank in 2019 and updated her customer record with this mobile number.
As Mr Gs customer record was updated with the mobile number and not Mrs Gs customer 
record, then on the balance of probabilities, its probable that only he spoke to the bank at 
the time and he gave them the mobile number, but he would not be able to update Mrs Gs 
customer record even though they had a joint account (and not a joint customer record). So 
this would be why Mrs Gs customer record did not get updated with her mobile number. Im 
not persuaded that it was to do with her gender and if the roles were reversed and Mrs G 
only spoke to them to update the mobile number, then she would be unable to update Mr Gs 
customer record. 
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr G have said about the provisional decision at various 
points mentions a phone number being added to the account and not the customer record. 
Ive had a read of my provisional findings and I can confirm that Ive only mentioned this in 
reference to what the call handler told Mrs and Mr G on the call. As I said in my provisional decision This potentially could have been avoided if the call handler had clearly explained at 
the outset that each joint account holder had a customer record attached to them and in 
order to update a customer record with a phone number, she needed to speak to the actual 
customer. But the call handler kept referring to the customer account and not the customer 
record.
I dont doubt the security process was upsetting for Mrs G. I could hear the discomfort and 
distress in her voice. But Im not persuaded that means that Virgin Money shouldnt try and 
establish her identity. After all it has regulatory and legal obligations it needs to follow to 
protect their customers accounts. Virgin Money need to ensure its speaking to its genuine 
customer before it can make changes to its customer record. Im satisfied that it would need 
to ask security questions regardless of a customers age. So I dont think she was treated 
differently to a customer who may be a different age to her. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision it is not within this services remit to tell a 
business how to run their security processes or procedures such as who they should speak 
to when completing security or what questions they ask. It would be the role of the regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who have the power to instruct Virgin Money to 
make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. So our service does not have 
the power to make a business change their security process.
In summary, Mrs and Mr Gs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs and Mr G will be 
disappointed, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mrs and Mr G a further £60 to total 
£100 compensation. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mrs 
and Mr G a further £60 to total £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman