DRN-2658981
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy about the way in which Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd contacted 
her about an outstanding debt.
Miss L says that she almost lost her job as a result of Lantern contacting her during work 
hours.
What happened
Lantern bought two debts in the name of Miss L. She made payments direct to Lantern for 
one account. But on the other account, Miss L paid the original creditor direct. This led to 
Lantern receiving payments later than agreed.
In April 2020, Lantern contacted Miss L to bring the payments up to date. Miss L complained 
to Lantern after it contacted her during working hours.
In September 2020, Lantern contacted Miss L again. She raised another complaint. As   
Miss L wasnt happy with the outcome, she came to this service for help.
The investigator recommended that Miss Ls complaint be upheld and that Lantern pay her 
£150 compensation.
Lantern disagrees with the investigators recommendation. It doesnt think it had enough 
information to decide when it was appropriate to speak with Miss L. Lantern points out that if 
Miss L had replied to its requests to stop paying the original creditor and pay Lantern 
instead, it wouldnt have needed to keep trying to make contact.
As Lantern disagrees with the investigators recommendation, the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the investigator has already set out the background to this complaint in 
detail, so I dont intend repeating everything.
As Miss L agrees with the investigators recommendation, my decision concentrates on 
Lanterns objections. 
I have seen Lanterns final response to Miss L. I think that it missed the opportunity to clarify 
what needed to happen. And that this contributed to Miss Ls anxiety and lack of response.
Miss L kept telling Lantern that she was already making the £10 payment so didnt 
understand why it was contacting her. The £10 payments were applied against one of the 
two accounts that Lantern had bought. But when it wrote to her, Lantern didnt make this 
clear. If it had done, it seems likely that Miss L wouldve been more responsive to Lanterns 
approaches. 
I appreciate that Lantern thinks that as Miss L didnt always answer calls at certain agreed 
times, she wouldnt have given it details of her working hours. Given what Ive said about the 
confusion about the payments, I dont agree with Lanterns assumption. Miss L had made it 
clear in her emails that contact during working hours was stressful and potentially damaging 
to her job. Miss L also talked about her health problems, which had also been made worse 
by the Covid crisis.  
Although Lantern doesnt consider it reasonable of the investigator to make assumptions 
about what constituted a working week for Miss L, it usually called her before 5pm and was 
told on at least three occasions to call back outside of working hours. So, when Lantern 
called Miss L before 2pm in September 2020, I can appreciate she was upset to be called 
during the day time. 
I agree with the investigator that if Lantern had done more to explain the situation to Miss L 
and establish what times contact would be inappropriate, it couldve avoided some of the 
upset Miss L experienced.  Overall, I consider it reasonable to require Lantern to pay the 
compensation recommended by the investigator. 
Putting things right
Lantern Debt Recovery Services Limited must pay Miss L £150.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Lantern Debt 
Recovery Services Limited to do what Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman