DRN-1780065
The complaint
Ms J complains that Vitality Health Limited declined her private medical insurance claim. My 
references to Vitality include its agents.
.What happened
Ms J has private health insurance through her husband's employer. Vitality is the insurer. 
Ms J developed keloid scarring following breast reduction surgery that she paid for privately. 
She contacted Vitality to make a claim for treatment to remove the scarring. 
Vitality declined the claim. It said as Ms Js breast reduction surgery wouldnt have been 
eligible for cover under the policy any ongoing treatment or complications of the surgery also 
werent covered by the policy.
Ms J complained to us. She said she didnt have the breast reduction surgery for cosmetic 
reasons but because she had back ache due to her breast size. She described her pain and 
discomfort from the keloid scarring and us sent photos of the scarring. She said the scarring 
was an acute condition that should be covered by the policy and she wants Vitality to pay for 
the treatment her GP recommended.
Our investigator said Vitality fairly declined the claim. 
Ms J disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She thought it unfair for Vitality not to 
pay for the treatment she needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Vitality fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms J but I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Vitalitys policy doesnt cover treatment for complications arising from medical conditions or 
treatment not covered (by Vitality).
So if the breast reduction surgery Ms J had wouldnt have been covered by the policy Vitality 
didnt need to cover treatment of her scarring as the scarring was as a result of the surgery.
Ms Js explained that her breast reduction surgery wasnt for cosmetic reasons but due to 
her back pain. But even if the surgery wasnt for cosmetic reasons, Im satisfied that Ms Js 
surgery wouldnt have been covered by the policy. Thats because the policy doesnt cover:
treatment, including surgery, to remove healthy or non-diseased tissue whether or 
not for psychological or medical reasons, (other than treatment we have authorised 
under our Lifestyle Surgery benefits).
So even if Ms Js breast reduction surgery was for medical reasons it wouldnt be covered 
unless Vitality would have authorised it under the Lifestyle Surgery benefits. 
Ive looked at the Lifestyle Surgery benefits which have specific eligibility criteria, which all 
need to be met, for different surgeries. The policy lists the eligibility criteria. Ms J didnt meet 
the eligibility criteria for breast reduction surgery so Vitality wouldnt have covered her breast 
reduction surgery.
Im sorry that Ms Js scarring is very painful for her.  But as Ms Js breast reduction surgery 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy Vitality fairly and reasonably declined her claim for 
treatment of her scarring as the scarring was a result of the surgery.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman