DRN-3319932
The complaint
Mr K and Miss S complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly declined 
their mortgage application. 
What happened
Mr K says he approached Halifax to change the joint mortgage he held with his ex-partner 
into a joint mortgage with his new partner. Mr K says he was informed the mortgage request 
was declined by Halifax in view of issues on his credit file. Mr K says the issues on his credit 
file were a result of Halifax wrongly advising his ex-partner not to make a mortgage payment 
while they were separating. 
Mr K says Halifax accepted it gave incorrect information to his ex-partner and agreed to 
remove any adverse entries on his credit file relating to that, but when it reassessed the 
mortgage application it was declined again on the same issues. Mr K says Halifax actions 
are unfair and other lenders have agreed to provide the new joint mortgage with his current 
partner, but if they were to change their mortgage to another provider they would face early 
repayment charges. 
Mr K says Halifax have put him under a great deal of stress and the level of compensation of 
£250 for the problems they have caused him, isnt sufficient. 
Halifax says the compensation offered was to reflect the poor service they provided to Mr K, 
but it wasnt able to confirm what was said to Mr Ks ex-partner, as that would breach data 
protection rules. Halifax says the request for the new mortgage with his current partner was 
reconsidered in light of the changes made to his credit file, but the application was still 
declined. Halifax says it feels the compensation offered was sufficient here. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt he couldnt comment on the conversation held between Mr Ks ex-partner 
and Halifax as she wasnt a complainant. The investigator says Halifax did fairly reassess 
the mortgage application, taking into account Mr Ks credit file had been amended to reflect 
no missed mortgage payments, but still declined it. The investigator says he was provided 
with business sensitive information to show the underwriters had considered other criteria, 
and it wasnt the missed payment that was the primary reason behind Halifaxs decision not 
to lend here. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr K and Miss S to have their request for 
a mortgage declined, based on what seemed to relate to an issue that had been corrected 
on Mr Ks credit file. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted unfairly when it declined Mr Ks 
and Miss Ss mortgage application and its subsequent reassessment, despite having the 
issues on Mr Ks credit file corrected. 
The first thing to say here is since the investigators view was issued, Halifax have since 
agreed a mortgage for Mr K and Miss S, which I was pleased to hear. That said, Mr K feels 
this doesnt alter the fact Halifax shouldnt have declined the mortgage application in the first 
place, given it was because of poor advice Halifax gave his ex-partner, which led to that 
decision. So Mr K feels the compensation Halifax offered, of £250 doesnt go far enough, 
given the stress and upset he has gone through over this matter. 
Mr Ks and Miss Ss complaint centres around the fact Halifax were at fault when they gave 
wrong advice to Mr Ks ex-partner about not making mortgage payments, at a time they were 
separating. Mr K maintains it was this that led to his credit file being affected and the reason 
why the mortgage request with his current partner was declined. 
I understand the points Mr K raises, but Im not fully persuaded by his argument here. Its 
worth reiterating the investigators comments in his view, that this service isnt able to 
comment on the contents of a telephone discussion his ex-partner had with Halifax as she is 
not the complainant here. What I can say is although Halifax have admitted to poor service 
over this matter, and paid Mr K £250 in compensation, they havent elaborated on what was 
discussed with his ex-partner, and I wouldnt expect it to, in view of data protection 
regulations. 
What is important is Halifax did correct Mr K s credit file and exceptionally reviewed the 
lending request for Mr Ks and Miss Ss mortgage application, but on its review at that time, 
still didnt approve it. Its worth mentioning this wasnt simply a matter of changing names 
from one party to another, Mr Ks and Miss Ss mortgage application was to provide 
additional borrowing and although this was agreed in principal, that would be without a full 
underwriters assessment and therefore it cant be considered an agreement to provide the 
mortgage. 
Its fair to say aside from the increased mortgage amount requested, there are several other 
factors taken into account when lenders, assess mortgage requests. And here, Im satisfied 
from the information I have seen from Halifax, the reason for the mortgage being declined 
wasnt solely due to the missed mortgage payment, that was retrospectively amended on Mr 
Ks credit file. As the investigator has pointed out this information is commercially sensitive to 
Halifax, so it cant be shared. That said, I have been provided with evidence to show a full 
underwriting  review was carried out here, but Halifax didnt feel it met their lending 
criteria/appetite at that time, and its not for me to tell them it must. 
So it follows, I cant say Halifax acted unfairly when it declined Mr Ks and Miss Ss mortgage 
application for the reasons I have already stated, and I dont feel any additional 
compensation is warranted here. 
While Mr K and Miss S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Halifax. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman