DRN-2298025
The complaint
Mr P complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) unreasonably 
declined card payments. 
What happened
On 8 March 2020 Mr P tried to purchase an item online but the transaction didnt go through. 
Mr P spoke with John Lewis the following day and was advised the payment had been held 
because of security concerns. Mr P asked to complain. 
John Lewis didnt agree it had made an error by but paid Mr P £50 to apologise for the 
inconvenience caused. 
On 2 September 2019 another payment Mr P tried to make with his John Lewis card didnt 
go through. Mr P spoke with John Lewis on 3 September 2019 and the block was removed 
from his card. Mr P complained that John Lewis unnecessarily stopped his payment. 
Mr Ps case was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. The investigator said 
John Lewis security systems had flagged the transactions as potentially fraudulent which is 
why they werent approved. They said Mr P attempted the purchases outside the hours John 
Lewis has phone teams available so they couldnt be immediately discussed. The 
investigator thought John Lewis had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr P asked to appeal the investigators view. 
On 2 November 2020, while Mr Ps case has been waiting to be allocated to an ombudsman, 
another transaction was blocked by John Lewis. John Lewis has advised the transaction was 
blocked by its systems due to security concerns. As Mr P has asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has told us that he often shops outside standard business hours for convenience. Hes 
also explained that the transactions that have been blocked are low value and to merchants 
he has previously shopped with. Mr P complains that the security measures John Lewis 
uses are being unfairly applied in his case. I can see that there have been occasions where 
Mr Ps payments havent been approved and I take his point that he has used his card with 
the same retailers in the past. 
I understand the declined transactions have been inconvenient for Mr P as hes had to 
contact John Lewis to unblock his card and check what happened. But, I have to balance 
that against John Lewis obligation to protect its customers money and the account terms. 
As our investigator has said, John Lewis is free to decide what security measures and 
systems it has in place. John Lewis has a fraud detection system that looks at transactions. 
Where a transaction is picked up, John Lewis will decide not to approve it if there are 
genuine security concerns.
I understand Mr P had used his card with the retailers in question previously, but there are 
lots of different things that can impact a business decision to approve a card payment. Ive 
looked at the information provided by John Lewis and Im satisfied its systems did pick up 
the transactions in question as potentially fraudulent which, is why they were not approved. 
Ive looked at the account terms and they say John Lewis can refuse to authorise a 
transaction if we reasonably suspect fraudulent or unauthorised use of the account. I 
appreciate that the payments Mr P tried to make were entirely genuine, but where John 
Lewis reasonably suspects there may be fraud, its account terms allow it to refuse to 
authorise a transaction.
I appreciate Mr P tried to make the transactions late at night which meant he had to wait to 
speak with John Lewis the following day. But John Lewis doesnt offer a 24 hour a day 
telephone service. It has given Mr P the details of its telephone service operating hours so 
he has the details available going forward. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P as I can see there has been some inconvenience to him. But Im 
satisfied the transactions in question were all legitimately picked up and blocked by John 
Lewis systems, a step the account terms allow it to take. John Lewis has paid Mr P £50 for 
the inconvenience caused and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied 
John Lewis has dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman