DRN-2445468
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt lend them further money on their 
mortgage to consolidate their debts. They say this forced them to move their mortgage 
elsewhere and thus incur a £7,260.72 early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr and Mrs H have said they were aware theyd incur an ERC, but they feel they had no 
choice. They think Santander should have done more to help them, such as lending them 
the money or reducing the amount of the ERC.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs H took out a fixed rate mortgage product with Santander. The rate was 
fixed until October 2020 and was subject to an ERC if they wanted to end it before then.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H wanted to borrow more money to consolidate their debts and carry out 
some home improvements. They looked on Santanders website and that said Santander 
doesnt offer further advances for debt consolidation. They decided to speak to an adviser in 
branch to check the information and were told it was correct.
They arranged a remortgage to a new lender and redeemed their Santander mortgage in 
December 2019, incurring a £7,260.72 ERC.
Our investigator said Santander hadn't done anything wrong as it had followed its lending 
policy, and the ERC was due under the contract Mr and Mrs H had entered into in 2015. 
Mr and Mrs H didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
It's not my role to tell a lender whether (or not) to lend to a particular consumer for a 
particular reason. Each lender has its own risk appetite. Santander doesnt offer further 
advances for debt consolidation. Thats not a rule just for Mr and Mrs H - it is the same for all 
Santanders customers - so Santander hasnt treated Mr and Mrs H any differently from how 
it would have treated any other of its customers that made the same enquiry.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel Santander is being unfair. But lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers and for what 
purposes. My role is to ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to 
substitute my judgement for the banks. Santander doesn't have to offer a bespoke service 
to Mr and Mrs H to consider their enquiry more holistically, it simply has to apply its lending 
policy fairly.
In this case, Santander applied its lending policy to Mr and Mrs Hs proposal. It follows that 
Im satisfied Santander didnt act unreasonably in warning Mr and Mrs H that any further 
advance application for debt consolidation purposes at that time would be unsuccessful.
Mr and Mrs H have said our investigator didnt look at their case thoroughly as we didnt ask 
them about what debts they had and what their outgoings were. They also said we failed to 
address the fact they had to add the ERC amount onto their new mortgage, making more 
debt. But we dont need to know that information  nor address that - as none of that is 
relevant here to our findings on this complaint. 
It wouldnt have mattered if Mr and Mrs H wanted to borrow £5,000 or £50,000, or whether 
their outgoings were high or low. It also doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint that 
Mr and Mrs H added the ERC amount onto their new mortgage. The simple fact is that 
Santander doesnt offer further advances for debt consolidation purposes, and we cant force 
it to, so the underlying details dont affect the outcome of the complaint.
The options Mr and Mrs H had were to:
Carry on as they were, keeping their mortgage with Santander - thus not incurring the 
ERC - and keep their other debts separate. What Mr and Mrs H then did with those 
other debts isnt something Santander could get involved in, and for that they would 
have needed to seek independent financial  or debt  advice.
Remortgage to a new lender to consolidate their debts and incur the ERC on their 
Santander mortgage.
There was perhaps a third option, which was that Mr and Mrs H may have been able 
to consolidate their debts by arranging a second charge secured loan and leaving the 
Santander mortgage untouched. Santander doesnt offer second charge secured 
loans and it couldnt offer advice about that option (due to not being authorised to do 
so), so it did nothing wrong in not mentioning that possibility to Mr and Mrs H. That 
would have been a matter for Mr and Mrs H to discuss with the mortgage broker that 
arranged their mortgage with their new lender, or if that broker was also unable to 
advise on such loans then Mr and Mrs H needed to discuss it with an independent 
specialist adviser. All Santander had to do was tell Mr and Mrs H that it couldnt lend 
them the money they wanted, which is what it did.
Mr and Mrs H opted for the second option and therefore they incurred the ERC. Whilst they 
say they had no choice, that wasnt Santanders fault; it simply followed its lending policy. 
There wasnt a fourth option whereby Mr and Mrs H could get the money they wanted as a 
further advance from Santander. Nor was there a fifth option whereby they could remortgage 
elsewhere without incurring the full ERC that was due under the 2015 mortgage contract.
There was no reason for Santander to reduce  or waive  the ERC because it hadnt done 
anything wrong. I can only uphold a complaint and order compensation if a business has 
done something wrong. As Im satisfied Santander did nothing wrong then there are no 
grounds for me to order it to refund the ERC, either in full or in part.
My final decisionI dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman