DRN-3363070
The complaint
X complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (BHI) has unfairly 
declined a claim made under a medical malpractice and public liability policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
X is a doctor and held a BHI medical malpractice/public liability policy to cover her 
practice. She retired in 2015 with this cover ending in November 2015.
In January 2019 X contacted BHI seeking to claim on the policy in relation to a 
procedure carried out in September 2015.
BHI declined the claim. It explained that the policy operates on a claims made 
basis. This meant it would only cover claims made within the period of insurance. 
And as the period of cover for X had ended in November 2018, she had brought this 
out of time for it to be an insured peril.
X complained, saying this was unfair and a technicality. And she said BHI hadnt 
been prejudiced by her late reporting of the matter.
The complaint was brought to this Service and one of our Investigators declined it. 
He said X had brought the claim outside of the insured period, so given the type of 
policy, it was different to late notification in line with relevant ICOBS rules. 
X disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This policy operates on a claims made basis. These will only provide cover for 
claims made during the term of the policy. This is different to claims occurring 
policies which cover events which happen while the policy is in force. 
Xs policy says if the insured has retired from providing professional services, then 
the insurance will provide cover for a period of 36 months after its expiry if a claim 
has been made against the insured, and notified to the insurer within this time. 
Xs policy expired in November 2015 following her retirement. This meant she could 
make a claim on her BHI policy if both the claim was made against her and she 
notified BHI before November 2018.
Its not in dispute that X did not contact BHI until January 2019. So, its clear to me 
this claim was made outside of the insured period set out by the policy terms.
While I take into account Xs argument about this notification not prejudicing BHIs 
position, the nature of this policy means that this matter she seeks to claim for is not 
an insurable peril. Put simply, by the point in which she contacted BHI to make the 
claim, the cover under the policy was no longer in force.
And in light of the terms of the cover being set out in a way that were clear, fair and 
not misleading, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to direct BHI to go 
against its policy terms in this case.
My final decision
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman