DRN-4360276
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the actions of Lloyds Bank Plc after he fell victim of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Mr C wished to purchase a new vehicle. He found the car on a reputable site, which he had 
used before. The listing showed several images, inside and outside of the vehicle which 
were all consistent and displayed the vehicle well. Mr C also says that the starting price was 
also in the range he was expecting to pay for a car that age. However, he completed further 
checks which showed the owners of the vehicle, and that name matched the name of the 
seller. He says the scammer advised he would have five days to test drive the car before 
any payment would be accepted.
On 26 March 2019, Mr C set up a new payee as instructed and sent £6,500 via faster 
payment to what he thought was a holding account owned by the site advertising the car. He 
says he never received any warning from Lloyds regarding the transfer or regarding setting 
up a new payee. Mr C says he received convincing emails, which he thought were from the 
site. However, Mr C became concerned, and he contacted Lloyds. But he says Lloyds was 
dismissive, and he was told to attempt to pick the car up to see if it was a scam.
So, Mr C travelled to the address he was provided by the scammer to pick the car up and as 
expected there wasnt anyone who lived at the address with that name. Mr C raised a 
complaint with Lloyds who attempted to recover the funds but was unsuccessful.
Mr C says he thinks the transfer ought to have triggered Lloyds to contact him as it was   
amount of money and inconsistent to his usual spending. And there was a new payee set up 
on the account. He says he wasnt provided with a cover story, so if Lloyds had intervened 
and probed further, it is likely Lloyds would have established it was a scam and he wouldnt 
have proceeded to make the payment. As such Mr C wants Lloyds to refund him £6,500 and 
pay 8% compensatory interest.
Lloyds looked into the complaint and issued a final response letter to Mr C. It said, while the 
payment was higher than normal, it wasnt considered unusual as it was a one-off purchase 
and funds had been moved into his account the same day to cover the payment with the 
reference new car. And therefore, there was no reason for it to intervene. Lloyds accepted 
that Mr C set up a new payee, but due to the passage of time it is unable to confirm if 
warnings were provided. Overall, Lloyds didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Mr C remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Therefore, Mr C asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to be considered.
I issued my provisional findings on 17 August 2023. This is what I said:
Its not in dispute that Mr C authorised the payment in question. He sent £6,500 via faster 
payment to a new payee which he set up. While I understand that Mr C didnt intend for his 
money to go to the potential scammer, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 Mr C is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance as the payments were authorised by him.
This remains the position unless there is sufficient evidence that Lloyds should have fairly 
and reasonably done more to protect him.
To put it another way, Lloyds has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments and one 
of the reasons for this it to prevent fraud and scams. Pursuant to industry expectations, 
Lloyds need to have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its consumers are at risk of fraud (amongst other things). Accordingly, Ive 
considered whether Lloyds ought to have considered this payment as being so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it should have given the bank sufficient grounds to suspecting fraud.
So, with all this in mind, I have considered the position carefully. Ive reviewed Mr Cs 
account statements leading up to the payment. And overall and in the context of Mr Cs 
normal spending and account usage, Im satisfied the payment of £6,500 on 26 March 2019 
should have appeared unusual or suspicious to Lloyds. Therefore, I think it is reasonable to 
conclude Lloyds ought to have suspected Mr C was at risk of financial harm.
I say this because, the only other comparable payments showing on Mr Cs statements in 
the months leading up to the transaction in question were £4,698.14 and £8,505.45 both 
made to the same government body via debit card (the UK tax office). Therefore, these 
payments were made via debit card opposed to faster payment and were made to an official 
government body opposed to an unknown individual. As such, I am satisfied that the 
payment in question marked a significant deviation from Mr Cs usual spending on the 
account  both on account of the payment method and recognised payee.
I have to bear in mind that a card payment (which can be otherwise referred to as a pull 
payment) affords the bank a more informed position as to the nature of business of the 
beneficiary, alongside other information. The point being, I accept there were comparable 
transactions in Mr Cs recent account history, but its my understanding that Lloyds systems 
had the ability to detect these were both going to the UK tax office  which is of course a well 
known government office. Whereas, when Mr C instructed this faster payment, often known 
as a push payment, the bank did not receive such intel about the transaction. Hence, why I 
find it markedly different to the prior spending Mr C tended to make.
I have also gone on to consider the fact Mr C set up a new payee and while I accept that 
setting up a new payee may not necessarily be enough for Lloyds to automatically be 
suspicious that Mr C was at financial harm This combined with Mr Cs unusual and 
uncharacteristic spending on the account and that Mr C had deposited £6,500 into the 
account referenced new car (bearing in mind this is a common story for a scam), I am 
satisfied this ought to triggered Lloyds to suspect a fraud or scam, and therefore justifies an 
intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions about the nature and 
purpose of the payments).
So, upon establishing that Lloyds ought to have intervened, I have gone on to consider if that 
intervention would have prevented Mr C suffering a loss. And, on balance, I am satisfied it 
would have. If Lloyds had contacted Mr C and questioned him about the payment, its highly 
likely it would have discovered this was a scam. I say this because Mr C was not given a 
cover story. So, upon asking Mr C further questions it would have discovered that he had 
been told his money was being held in a holding account owned by the site. But he was 
being asked to transfer the money to an account held in an individuals name, which Lloyds 
could have quickly established and would have immediately raised concerns.
Secondly, its likely it would have also established that Mr C hadnt seen the car in person. 
And, accompanied by the fact the money was being transferred to an individuals account while Mr C was told this was a holding account, I think Lloyds would have recognised this 
had the hallmarks of a common and well known a scam.
I have also considered Mr Cs testimony, that shortly after transferring the money, his instinct 
told him something wasnt right and contacted Lloyds. Therefore, I think its plausible, that if 
Lloyds had intervened and highlighted its concerns to Mr C he would have listened to Lloyds 
and the loss he suffered would have been prevented.
So, but for Lloyds failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr C 
would probably have not lost his money. I therefore intend asking it to refund the payment he 
lost as part of the scam.
Lloyds Bank Plc needs to refund Mr C £6,500 and pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest 
from the date of the payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Both parties had an opportunity to respond to my provisional findings. Mr Cs represented 
accepted my findings but Lloyds provided further comments for my consideration. Which I 
will answer below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, Lloyds said there were previous higher payments out of Mr Cs account, and 
they didnt have confirmation of payee for those payments at that time. It also said a one-off 
higher payment isnt an indication of a scam and it wouldnt be practical for the bank to take 
this approach. It also drew my attention to the fact Mr C had transferred money into his 
account with the reference new car and the payment went out for the same amount; and 
said this isnt a clear sign of a scam.
I have taken Lloyds further comments into account. But having done so my decision remains 
the same. While I accept there were other comparable payments showing on Mr Cs 
account, the comparable payments were not to a new payee and made via debit card. And 
while Lloyds have disputed the fact they would have been aware who the payment was 
being made to (the UK tax office) the payments were made via debit card oppose to faster 
payment. So I am still of the opinion that the payment in question was unusual spending on 
Mr Cs account. 
As I explained in my provisional findings, I have also considered that Mr C set up a new 
payee. And while this wouldnt necessarily be enough for Lloyds to be automatically 
suspicious, that combined with unusual and uncharacteristic account activity (amount and 
method) I am satisfied it justified an intervention from Lloyds such as phoning him to ask 
questions about the nature and purpose of the payments. And if this had occurred, I am 
satisfied its likely the scam would have been revealed, for the reasons I have explained 
above. 
Lloyds also said that as Mr C had concerns at the time of making the payment, it shows he 
ignored his own misgivings and continued with the payment in fear of missing out and at the 
very least he ought to have seen the car in question. While I understand the point Lloyds 
made, I am not persuaded by its argument for the reasons I provided in my provisional 
findings. Secondly, I havent seen in Mr Cs testimony that at the time of making the payment 
he had concerns. But he did have concerns later that day when he contacted Lloyds. And as 
I explained in my provisional findings, if Lloyds had intervened and highlighted its concerns to Mr C I am persuaded he would have listened to Lloyds and the loss he suffered would 
have been prevented.
Therefore, my decision remains the same as my provisional findings
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank Plc needs to refund Mr C £6,500 and pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest 
from the date of the payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank Plc to refund Mr C as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman