DRN-2480845
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund online card payments, 
which she didnt make.
What happened
Mrs S bought a subscription with PlayStation for her son in September 2017. She paid for 
the subscription online with her credit card details, created an account with her card details 
and used her email address on the account. Between October 2017 and May 2018, her son 
spent £971.43 on games. Mrs S said she was unaware of these purchases as she didnt 
check her statements. Instead, she relied on Nationwide to alert her to any unusual 
transactions. She said she didnt know the merchant would store her card details and didnt 
think she needed to set up any parental controls. She believed the merchant would actively 
seek her or her husbands express authority if her son tried to download a game.
She asked Nationwide for a refund. She said Nationwides security system shouldve flagged 
the payments as unusual for her account.
Nationwide investigated her claim and decided not to refund the transactions. It said it had 
no reason to believe the payments were fraudulent or that her card was being used without 
her knowledge. And it said she didnt raise any concerns until July 2019, despite the 
payments appearing on her statements. Shed also contacted it on 29 August 2018 and
27 September 2018 to discuss her account, but she didnt mention the disputed payments. 
Mrs S didnt think Nationwides decision was fair, so she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint but didnt recommend upholding it. He concluded 
that Mrs S had authorised the disputed payments and that there were no obvious warning 
signs which shouldve triggered a security alert. He also said that, as her son had benefited 
from the purchases, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to refund the 
disputed payments.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view. She responded to say she accepts a degree of 
responsibility for the payments and is no longer seeking a refund, but she believes 
Nationwide owes her compensation for not alerting her to the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
 
The investigator wrote a very detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mrs S and Nationwide have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my 
decision. However, I can assure Mrs S that Ive read the file, including her comments.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs S. Its shocking how quickly the cost these games 
can build up. But Im afraid that, having reviewed the evidence, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mrs S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the payments were authenticated by 
Mrs Ss card details  the card number, expiry date and the three-digit CVV number. These 
details were registered with the merchant when Mrs S set up the account. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Nationwide to 
hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that she consented to the withdrawals being made.
The investigator has explained that under the relevant regulations a payment transaction is 
regarded as having been authorised by the payer only if the payer has given her consent to 
the execution of the payment transaction. The regulations go on to say that such consent 
must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer 
and its payment service provider. The form and procedure are usually set out in the terms 
and conditions. This is very wordy but put simply consent is given when the payer uses her 
the card, the card details and/or the PIN.
Under the regulations, a person can also give someone else authority to make a transaction. 
And authorisation isnt limited to transactions for which explicit permission has been given. 
Where a payer has allowed someone else to use her card or card details so that it looks to 
the bank or building society as if the payer is making the transaction, then this will be treated 
as apparent authority to make the transaction.
So, because of what the regulations say, Im afraid I consider its fair and reasonable for 
Nationwide to treat her as having authorised the disputed payments (by giving apparent 
authority). The evidence shows that Mrs S:
 added her card details to the merchants account
 she followed the steps needed to store the card details on the account for future use
 she didnt put in place the parental controls
 she allowed her son access to PlayStation without any supervision.
I sympathise with Mrs S when she says she didnt know her card details would be stored or 
that parental controls were needed. Im sure many parents have been caught out this way, 
but she is still regarded as having authorised the disputed payments. In any event, her son 
has benefited from the games and so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to 
refund the payments.
Besides, Mrs S says she doesnt want a refund now. She wants compensation because 
Nationwide didnt alert her to the disputed payments.
Firms dont share the details of their anti-fraud systems with this service, for obvious 
reasons. This is commercially sensitive information and each business will have its own risk 
factors and criteria for identifying what is a fraudulent transaction. These may vary from
 
business to business. So, I cant assess Nationwides actions against any set industry 
guidance to determine whether it shouldve identified the payments as suspicious. But as a matter of good practice, firms should proactively look to identify and help prevent 
transactions - particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam.
Ive looked at the statements for the account, and I dont think the amounts were particularly 
unusual or suspicious in comparison to the normal activity on Mrs Ss account. Nationwide 
said that the only unusual feature was the frequency of the payments to the same merchant. 
I dont consider that this alone shouldve triggered the security system because:
Mrs S had bought a genuine subscription to PlayStation. So, the purchases for 
games wasnt unusual but expected.
There was an increase in spending in September 2017 but the spending in this 
month was comparable to spending in March, April and May 2017. Although there 
was an increase after three months, the level of spending wasnt inconsistent with 
spending in other months.
The monthly spending from September 2017 to March 2018 remained at about 
£1,500 but this was largely due to other genuine transactions. Again, this level was 
consistent with the spending levels in the months without the PlayStation. Other than 
January 2018, March 2018 and May 2018, the games purchases were few and for 
small amounts.
In January, March and May 2018 the games purchases were approximately half of all 
transactions, but the amounts were small. By then, Mrs S wouldve known about 
them from her statements. However, she raised no concerns.
Individually, the payments didnt stand out as unusual when compared with the other 
genuine larger payments.
I understand that Nationwide had contacted her about unusual or suspicious payments in the 
past. I dont know why it identified those payments as suspicious other than they might have 
matched fraud patterns and trends for the time. And Nationwide said PlayStation purchases 
were not treated as fraudulent payments.
Finally, I cant ignore the fact that Mrs S bears some responsibility for her situation by not 
checking her statements. As Nationwide said, customers shouldnt rely on its anti-fraud 
system to identify unusual transactions. Its the customers responsibility to check their 
monthly paper statements or to check their account online. Had Mrs S checked her 
September 2017 statement, then she wouldve seen the payments and couldve put in place 
safeguards, such as parental controls, to limit future payments.
In summary, taking everything into account, I find that Mrs S authorised the disputed 
transactions and Nationwide is entitled to hold her liable for them. I dont consider that the 
disputed payments wouldve triggered the security system or that Nationwide failed to 
comply with any duty to notify her about them. Consequently, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to make an award for compensation.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mrs S, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman