DRN-3106746
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance, following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (the CCA) 
What happened
Ms M was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems.  
Following a sales meeting, Ms M agreed to enter into a contract with the installer for it to 
supply and install a solar panel system.  To pay for this she also entered into a 5-year fixed 
sum loan agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (BPF).  
Ms M made a claim under section 75 of the CCA via her representatives.  She said the 
installer had told her that the solar panels would be self -funded, and that the monthly loan 
repayment costs would be more than offset by the feed in tariff (FIT) income.  But that 
hadnt happened, instead the monthly repayments had been much higher that the income. 
BPF made an offer to settle the complaint, which Ms M did not accept.  So, we investigated 
the case. 
After our involvement, BPF made a further offer to resolve the complaint.  BPF said it had 
calculated the potential savings and income to Ms M over 10 years.  It said it would 
restructure the loan so that Ms M would pay no more than this over the loan term.  When it 
completed this calculation Ms M was due a refund, as she had overpaid against the new 
loan amount. BPF offered to pay 8% interest on this amount and it offered £100 in 
recognition of the avoidable trouble and upset caused.  
Our investigator felt this offer was a fair way to resolve this complaint, but Ms M did not 
agree.  Her representatives made the point that Ms M was expecting her panels to self-fund 
over the 5-year term of the loan, and it wanted the calculation redone on that basis.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M says that during the sales meeting for the solar panels, she was told the solar panel 
system would be self-financing. BPF have accepted that the benefits were mis-represented 
to Ms M, and as a result this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with the minimum formality.  In cases like 
this one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science.  My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances. 
Ive considered if it would be reasonable to put Ms M back into the position she would have 
been in had there been no mis-representation.  However, here I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the panels from her home.  
Ive considered the methodology BPF have submitted to this service to calculate the offer 
they made.  The methodology is based on a combination of actual performance and 
estimated future performance on the system. 
When calculating the estimated future benefits BPF uses a number of assumptions. These 
include the self-consumption rate, electricity price inflation, the degradation rate and the 
estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that these appear reasonable taking into 
account the actual known figures.  In summary Im satisfied that the assumptions used 
provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation. 
The area of dispute is around the period the benefits should be calculated over. I think its 
important to remember that the purpose of the redress is not to make any misrepresentation 
thats been made, true, but rather to ensure that Ms M isnt disadvantaged by the situation.  
Im mindful of the fact Ms M has already benefitted from the panels, through lower electricity 
costs and FIT payments for longer than the five-year period of the loan and is likely to 
continue to do so.  Therefore, I consider BPFs offer to calculate the redress over a 10-year 
period to be a fair outcome to this complaint and ensures that Ms M is not unfairly   
disadvantaged by the misrepresentation made at the point of sale.  
I do expect BPF to update the interest paid to reflect the later date of settlement.  
I also consider the proposed award of £100 for the trouble and upset caused to be fair under 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, 
I require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to:
a) Allow Ms M to keep the solar panel system
b) Estimate the potential savings and income to Ms M from the panels over 10 years 
and ensure she pays no more than this.  Where possible they should use Ms Ms 
electricity bills and FIT statements to do this. 
c) Add 8 % simple interest * to any overpayment made until the date of settlement
d) Pay Ms M £100.00 for the trouble and upset caused.  
If Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance considers that 
it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should 
tell Ms M how much it has taken off.  It should also give Ms M a certificate showing this, 
should she ask for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman