DRN-1826077
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about Nationwide Building Society and the misleading information they 
provided when processing his account switch.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr B applied to Nationwide to complete an account switch through the 
Recommend a Friend scheme, which wouldve seen both he and his partner receive a £100 
payment after completion.
In November, after not receiving a code hed been expecting, Mr B contacted Nationwide to 
discuss his switch. In this chat, Mr B was advised he needed to active direct debits to be set 
up on the account he was switching from for him to be eligible for the £100 incentive. As Mr 
B didnt have these set up, Nationwide cancelled the switch to prevent it from going through 
and advised Mr B to set up the direct debits on the account he wanted to switch from then try 
the process again.
Mr B then contacted Nationwide again in December where he was given conflicting 
information. He was told to close the account he currently held and to set up two direct 
debits on his new Nationwide account. He was told hed qualify for the payment at this point. 
Mr B followed this advice but neither he nor his partner received the £100 they were 
expecting. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked into the complaint about upheld it. They explained the advice Mr B had 
received in November was correct and the switch had been cancelled correctly. But, they 
agreed the advice he was given in December was incorrect. So, Mr B had set up direct 
debits on his Nationwide account but didnt qualify for the £100 incentive payments. 
Although Nationwide thought their terms and conditions explained what criteria Mr B needed 
to meet to qualify for the payment, they offered Mr B £75 to recognise the incorrect he was 
given. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and contacted Nationwide again to explain this. He explained he 
was unhappy with how long the process had taken and the inconvenience hed been caused 
having to continuously contact them. Nationwide responded again offering another £30 to 
recognise the inconvenience Mr B had experienced and the fact hed need to switch his 
direct debits out of his Nationwide account and back into his previous account before 
completing the process again. Mr B was unhappy with this response so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed that Nationwide 
had provided Mr B with conflicting information which delayed the switching of his account. 
But, she also thought the terms and conditions of the switch scheme made it reasonably 
clear that two direct debits needed to be switched from his previous account. So, she 
thought the total compensation amount of £105 was a reasonable offer to recognise the 
trouble and upset hed been caused.Mr B didnt agree with this view. He didnt think the payment was enough to recognise the 
trouble and upset hed been caused which had added to already difficult personal 
circumstances. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience this situation has caused Mr B. Ive no doubt he 
wouldve been left frustrated and the time and effort its taken him to switch his account 
using the Refer and Friend (RAF) scheme when he assumed it wouldve been a relatively 
simple process. Im aware that this inconvenience has worsened already difficult 
circumstances in his personal life. The confusion Nationwide created by providing conflicting 
information wouldve added to this and its something Ive considered when making my 
decision.
Its not in dispute that Nationwide provided the wrong information when Mr B contacted them 
in December. This meant that Mr B failed to follow the steps he was advised, correctly, in the 
conversation he held in November. This meant that he set up two direct debits on his new 
Nationwide account, rather than set them up on his previous account ready for the switch. 
Because of this, Mr B has been left in a situation where he needed to switch these direct 
debits back, or set up two new direct debits, on his previous account before he could 
complete the switch through the RAF scheme that means he and his partner also receive a 
£100 one off payment. I think this incorrect advice has impacted Mr B, as hes had to take 
time and effort to ensure he is eligible. Its also meant hes had to wait longer for the £100 
payment.
But, Ive also seen the terms and conditions of the RAF scheme which Mr B had sight of 
when initially beginning the switch process. These explain A minimum of two existing Direct 
Debits on the old account must be transferred as part of the switch. Other types of 
automated payments, such a Standing Orders and recurring card payments, will not count 
towards this. So, I think Nationwide made Mr B reasonably aware of the requirements he 
needed to meet to ensure he qualified for the promotional payment.
When Mr B contacted Nationwide in November, they correctly realised that if they allowed 
the switch to go ahead, he wouldnt be eligible for the payment as the two direct debits 
hadnt been completed. This is because the direct debits needed to be active, meaning at 
least one payment needed to have been made on both. So, I think Nationwide acted fairly 
and took the correct action at that time. Had Mr B followed this advice, the switch couldve 
been processed correctly when he applied a second time.
 
Its after this that Nationwide confused the situation by providing conflicting, incorrect 
information which unfortunately Mr B followed following assurances from two separate 
advisors. This had led to delays and Mr B needing to take further action to ensure his 
previous account had direct debits in place to complete the switch correctly.
Mr B has also explained he was in a difficult financial situation at the time and this is one of 
the reasons for wanting to switch the account to secure the £100 payment. While Im able to 
consider the inconvenience the delay caused, Ive seen no evidence to show any financial 
loss to Mr B. So, this isnt something Ive included when considering what I think Nationwide 
need to do to put things right.Mr B also explained his concern about any potential impact on his credit rating as due to the 
complications, he also set up another new account with another bank. While I understand Mr 
Bs concerns, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Nationwide responsible for Mr Bs decision to 
open another account with another bank. Ive also seen no evidence to show that Mr Bs 
credit rating has been in any way impacted by Nationwides error. 
So, although the terms and conditions Nationwide provided are reasonably clear, I think they 
acted unfairly by the providing him with contradictory information. This has led to the switch 
process taking longer than both myself and Mr B would expect. Ive also seen Mr B has had 
to contact Nationwide on a number occasion to work out how this issue could be resolved. 
This wouldve taken time and effort. To recognise this, Nationwide have offered Mr B a total 
payment of £105. Im aware that Mr B still has a Nationwide account open and has been 
advised that as long as his previous account has two outstanding direct debits, he can 
complete the switch process that will mean he receives the £100 he expected initially.
Considering this, I think the £105 Nationwide have offered to be a fair and reasonable one. 
Although I understand Mr Bs point of view that Nationwide couldve credited his Nationwide 
account with the £100 to prevent the issues hes faced, Im unable to say Nationwide 
shouldve done this as it falls outside there process. So, I dont think Nationwide need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman