DRN-2480200
The complaint
Mr E complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In December 2019 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £5,000 for Mr E, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £304 per month over a term of 36 months. The loan 
was intended to consolidate some of Mr Es other borrowing, as well as provided some extra 
funds for Christmas. When assessing the application, Everyday Loans took steps to verify 
Mr Es financial circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
Unfortunately, one month into the term of the loan in January 2020 Mr E ran into financial 
difficulties, and couldnt make his payment on time. By May 2020 he seems to have 
cancelled his direct debit, but then appears to have been able to make some payments since 
that time until now. It seems that the debt continues to be owned by Everyday Lending 
Limited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr E would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr E needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Mr E fairly detailed questions about his income and expenditure; 
reviewed copies of recent pay slips and bank statements; and carried out a credit check 
when considering his loan application. It calculated how consolidating some of his existing 
lending could have improved Mr Es overall financial position. Im satisfied that its checks 
went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Mr E, I cannot see how Everyday Loans concluded that this 
loan would be sustainable for him, bearing in mind the regulations in force.
Everyday Loans points out that by consolidating other lending, Mr Es monthly debt burden 
reduced by nearly £600. It completed calculations that showed a disposable income before 
the lending of £206 and a potential disposable income after the lending of £785. In and of 
themselves, those calculations are sound, and could have suggested that this loan would 
improve Mr Es overall position. But they do not tell the whole story, and in many ways 
represent what I might call a theoretical approach to this lending decision.
Everyday Loans also reviewed Mr Es recent bank statements, which raise several 
significant concerns:
Mr Es overdraft limit was significantly higher than his proven monthly income, and 
the amount of this loan
His account was only on one occasion in credit  and that was only as a result of 
large loans from short-term lenders
The rest of the time he existed in a large overdraft
Even with the consolidation of some of his debt, Mr E was still due to continue 
repaying other payday loans
Hed recently taken out a new payday loan for £1,000
So whilst I fully acknowledge what Everyday Loans says about this lending representing an 
improvement to his financial circumstances, that is very much a theoretical assessment of 
the situation. He was so deep in debt that the calculated increase in disposable income 
wasnt sufficient to make this loan sustainable. What is clear is that Mr E was reliant on 
lending simply to exist. It follows that he would likely need to borrow in order to make the 
repayments on this loan  the very definition of unsustainable under the regulations.
Everyday Loans also argues that much of the expenditure showing on Mr Es bank 
statements was discretionary spend, and it therefore did not to take that into account 
when reaching its lending decision. Whilst I of course accept that it is difficult for lenders to 
factor this in to income and expenditure analyses, I dont consider it reasonable for a 
lender to simply ignore evidence of ongoing substantial indebtedness from a bank 
statement. Put simply, Mr E was living beyond his means and borrowing to survive. There 
was nothing to suggest to Everyday Loans that he would suddenly stop doing so. Granting 
this loan to him did not mean that he would stop needing to borrow in order to live. Whilst 
he did reduce his monthly debt burden through taking this loan, it should have been 
entirely clear to Everyday Loans that he would still have to continue to borrow in order to 
repay it.
As Ive explained, needing to borrow to meet repayments means that the lending is not 
sustainable for the customer. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr E, Everyday Loans must do the following:A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr E having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then Everyday 
Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr E.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to this
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman