DRN-3801058
The complaint
Miss B complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has refused to refund her the amount she lost 
as the result of a scam.
Miss B has previously been represented by a third party, to keep things simple I will refer to 
Miss B throughout my decision.
What happened
In summary, Miss B was convinced by a friend of hers to invest with a business they were 
investing with at the time, namely trade-coin (T). As part of the investment process T asked 
Miss B to open a bank account with Revolut and to download a screen sharing application 
(AnyDesk) so it could help show her how to carry out her investment.
Miss B made the following payments to the legitimate cryptocurrency exchange Binance via 
her Revolut debit card:
1. 24 May 2022 - £1,000.00
2. 21 June 2022 - £2,000.00
3. 21 June 2022 - £2,300.00
4. 28 June 2022 - £3,900.00
5. 12 July 2022 - £1,000.00
6. 22 July 2022 - £1,700.00
7. 25 July 2022 - £300.00
The funds were then forwarded to T to make the investments. When Miss B attempted to 
make a withdrawal from her account with T she was unable to. It was clear that Miss B had 
fallen victim to a scam, and she has been able to recover any of the money she invested.
Our Investigator considered Miss Bs complaint but didnt think Revolut had done anything 
wrong. As Miss B disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Miss B and Revolut set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Revolut 
should refund any of the money Miss B has lost because of this scam.
Revolut was unable to attempt a chargeback for the payments Miss B made in relation to 
this scam to Binance.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Miss B was dealing with T, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Miss B 
didnt make the debit card payments to T directly, she paid a separate cryptocurrency 
exchange (Binance). This is important because Revolut was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (Binance), not another party (such as T).
The service provided by Binance would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Miss Bs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Miss B paid. As Binance provided 
the requested service to Miss B any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Miss B has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Binance, so the starting 
point here is that Miss B is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Miss B was making.
Miss B opened her Revolut account as requested by T. So, the account had no history to 
compare the payments Miss T was making to. So Revolut would not be able to say the 
payments being made were out of the ordinary for Miss B.
In any event the payments Miss B made to Binance were individually of values low enough 
that I wouldnt expect them to trigger Revoluts fraud prevention systems. The business 
(Binance) Miss B was paying is also a legitimate business so I dont think this would have 
reasonably caused Revolut concern either.
Although Miss B made several payments to Binance as part of the scam they were spread 
over the months of May to July with only two payments being made on the same day. So, I 
dont think the regularity of the payments would have reasonably triggered Revoluts fraud 
prevention systems either. Miss B also had to confirm each of the payments through the 3D 
secure system, showing she was the person making the payments. 
Overall, as explained above, I dont think it was unreasonable that Revoluts fraud prevention 
measures were not triggered by any of the payments Miss B made to Binance. So, I dont 
think it missed an opportunity to step in to prevent the scam, and I dont think it was 
responsible for any of Miss Bs loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Terry WoodhamOmbudsman