DRN-1686662
 
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts with them.
What happened
On 1 April 2019, Miss S was given notice that her accounts would close in two months time.
On 2 June 2019, her accounts were closed.
Miss S complained to Barclays, who explained theyd decided to close her accounts 
following an internal review. They said theyd given the proper notice.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that Barclays were able to close her accounts under the terms and conditions, so 
long as they gave two months notice.
Miss S didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Similar to how Miss S can decide to close an account with a bank, the bank can also decide 
to close an account with her, so long as they give the proper notice.
Under the terms and conditions here, Barclays had to give Miss S two months notice, and 
I can see that they did. So while I appreciate that it can be frustrating having accounts 
closed, I have not found that Barclays did anything wrong in that regard.
Miss S pointed out that Barclays also blocked her card before the account was closed. 
Thats because shed reported that her card was being used without her permission, so such 
a block seems reasonable. As our investigator explained, we may be able to look at any 
issues Miss S mightve had with the disputed transactions as a separate case, if shed like 
us to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
closing her accounts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman