DRN-2840051
The complaint
Ms C complains esure Insurance Limited has unfairly avoided her motor insurance policy 
and declined a claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive only provided a 
summary here.
Ms C had an esure motor insurance policy 
Her car was involved in an accident and a claim was made on the policy 
While investigating the claim, esure discovered Ms C wasnt the owner and 
registered keeper of the car
esure spoke to Ms Cs son (Mr A) and he confirmed he was the owner and main user 
of the car
It said if it had been aware of this it wouldnt have provided cover
Later, Ms C supplied esure with a V5C document showing her as the owner and 
registered keeper of the vehicle
But esure showed the V5C transferring the car from Mr As name into her name was 
only submitted in September 2020, some three months after the car was acquired 
and several months after the policy was voided
Ms C complained to esure but it maintained its stance
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint saying that Ms C hadnt taken 
reasonable care when answering the questions about ownership of the car
She was satisfied it was fair esure treated the misrepresentation as deliberate, 
retained the premiums and avoided the policy 
The case has been brought to me to make a final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Was there a misrepresentation?
When making the amendment to her policy during a live chat, Ms C said she was the owner 
and registered keeper of the vehicle. But when esure discussed the issue with Mr A, he 
explained he was actually the owner and registered keeper. Additionally, he said he used it 
to get to work five days a week while his mother only used it to potter around in.
I also note, the hire purchase agreement the car was acquired under was in Mr As name. I 
acknowledge here, the finance provider may also have had a right of ownership - as 
suggested by our investigator - due to the hire purchase agreement used to acquire the 
vehicle.
I acknowledge Ms C subsequently supplied a copy of a V5C showing her as the owner of the 
vehicle but esure has shown this wasnt submitted until September 2020, sometime after the 
acquisition of the car and avoidance of the policy.
On balance, I think it was reasonable esure concluded Ms C wasnt the owner of the vehicle 
at the time the policy was amended.
Was this a qualifying misrepresentation?
The first thing I need to consider is whether Ms C took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Im satisfied the question she was asked about ownership of the car 
during the Live Chat was clear and not misleading. In answering as she did, Im not 
persuaded Ms C took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Ive then gone on to consider if esure would still have entered into the contract, or whether it 
would have only done so on different terms. Having seen esures underwriting criteria, Im 
satisfied it wouldnt have entered into the contract if the question had been answered 
correctly. Because of this, Im satisfied it was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
The remedy available to esure
Having reached the conclusions I have above about the information Ms C supplied when 
answering the question, I agree with the investigator that it was fair for esure to treat the 
misrepresentation as deliberate and retain the premiums in line with CIDRA.
Overall, Im satisfied esure has acted in line with CIDRA and hasnt acted unfairly in avoiding 
the policy and refusing to pay the claim. I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman