DRN-1382369
Complaint
Miss O is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Insurance (Direct Line) 
has declined a claim on a pet insurance policy to cover the cost of treatment by a vet.
 
Background
 Miss O owns a cat, L, and has an insurance policy to cover medical expenses which she 
took out with Direct Line in December 2018.
In September 2018, Miss O took L to a local vet (Vet 1). She was concerned because shed 
noticed blood in his urine (haematuria). The vet diagnosed L with stress-induced cystitis  a 
condition in which there is significant inflammation of the bladder. The vet told Miss O that 
this complication can occur in cats when they move home  something which Miss O had 
recently done. 
The vets notes suggest he thought it unlikely that the haematuria had been caused by an 
infection. However, it couldnt be ruled out because it wasnt possible to collect a urine 
sample from L. Erring on the side of caution, he prescribed a short course of antibiotics and 
asked Miss O to come back if Ls symptoms worsened. L wasnt seen again by a vet until 
February 2019.
In Feb 2019, L became ill and so Miss O took him to a different vet (Vet 2). L was found to 
have an enlarged bladder, a urethral obstruction and associated complications which Vet 2 
was able to treat. A number of diagnostic tests were carried out on a urine sample, but these 
didnt help identify an obvious cause of Ls condition. 
Nonetheless, L recovered and was able to return home. Miss O made a claim to Direct Line 
for the cost of that treatment, but her claim was declined. Direct Line pointed out that the 
policy excluded pre-existing conditions. It thought it was likely that the symptoms suffered 
by L in February 2019 were connected with the same underlying condition that caused him 
haematuria in September 2018 and so it concluded it didnt need to pay the claim. Miss O 
complained about Direct Lines decision, but it was satisfied it had made the correct 
decision. In responding to her complaint, it said that:
the first condition was first noticed on 17 September 2018
And that L had shown signs of:
feline idiopathic cystitis. After investigation [L] has had no specific cause identified  
for example, crystals/stones/infection. As your vets have been unable to supply 
medical evidence that the haematuria and urinary issues  are unrelated to the 
urinary issue [L] is currently suffering with then we are unable to process your claim.
Miss O didnt agree with Direct Lines decision. She contacted the two vets that had treated 
L and asked them for their comments.
Vet 1 said:
I saw [L] as you had noticed blood in his urine. This followed a recent house move 
which is a recognised cause of stress cystitis in cats with signs appearing most 
commonly in the six-week period following a move  [This is] sometimes referred to 
as Feline Lower Urinary Tract Disease (FLUTD)  I do not recall ever seeing a case 
of a blocked urethra due to stress.
Vet 2 said:
 There is no definitive evidence that this is related to his episode of haematuria  
and there were no clinical signs in the interim to suggest a more chronic disease 
process.
Direct Line was satisfied that, because there wasnt enough evidence to demonstrate that 
these two episodes of disease had separate causes, it was right to decline the claim. 
Miss O referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an investigator who upheld 
it. The investigator thought that Direct Line hadnt given appropriate weight to the evidence 
provided by the two vets involved in Ls care. They were persuaded that these two 
conditions were unlikely to be connected. The investigator didnt think Direct Line had done 
enough to justify why it hadnt considered the views of the two vets.
Direct Line disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been referred 
to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
We have an established approach in cases like this one. Where an insurer wants to rely on 
an exclusion clause to turn down a claim, it needs to show that the exclusion applies. Neither 
the policy holder nor any of the vets involved in the treatment of their pet are expected to 
demonstrate that the exclusion doesnt apply. 
The exclusion is written as follows:
We wont cover  any claims in connection with or arising from a pre-existing 
condition.
A pre-existing condition is defined as:
Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any 
form before the pet was covered by this insurance.
For the exclusion to apply, the claim needs to be connected with or arise from a condition 
that pre-dated the policy. The two periods of illness suffered by Miss Os cat affected the 
same biological system, but it does not automatically follow from that they were instances of 
the same disease. 
Neither of the vets that have treated L are persuaded that theres a relationship between the 
haematuria he suffered in September 2018 and the later illness in February 2019. Direct 
Line has argued that there is no medical evidence of a separate medically unrelated cause to differentiate the two episode  e.g. crystalluria, urinary stones, bacterial cause and says 
this justifies its decision to decline the claim. 
Its worth noting that Vet 2 was able to carry out more detailed diagnostic testing on L 
because it was possible to collect a urine sample  something which hadnt been possible in 
September 2018. Its possible that a sample might have more clearly demonstrated a distinct 
cause of Ls illness. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont consider it fair and reasonable 
to expect Miss O to prove that the exclusion doesnt apply. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Direct Line has fairly considered the evidence provided by 
the vets that treated L and so I dont think it can rely on the exclusion.
Final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line Insurance) should pay Miss Os claim subject to 
the remaining policy terms and limits. If Miss O has already paid the vet, interest needs to be 
added to the claim at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date her claim was turned 
down until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman