DRN-2630560
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains that AIG Life Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a terminal illness 
claim on Mr Ws life assurance policy. 
This complaint has been brought to us on behalf of Mr Ws estate by his two sons, both 
called Mr W. For ease, Ill refer to Mr W throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr Ws father took out a life assurance policy with AIG in September 2013. In August 2019 
he made a terminal illness claim having been diagnosed with lung cancer. Mr Ws father has 
sadly now passed away.
AIG declined the claim. It said Mr W didnt provide correct information on the application 
form, specifically about having suffered from a chest or lung disorder in the last five years. 
AIG considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to 
decline the claim, treat the policy as if it was never in place and return the premiums paid.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
AIG had asked a clear question that Mr Ws father had answered incorrectly. He thought AIG 
acted fairly by declining the claim and returning the premiums. 
Mr W doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
doesnt think AIG took account of the fact his father was 83 years of age when he took the 
policy out. And he thinks AIG shouldve contacted the GP rather than relying on his fathers 
ability to correctly complete a long and detailed application form. Mr W said a covering note 
to his fathers application form had suggested AIG request a full medical report. But it didnt 
do this, instead putting all the burden on his elderly father to provide correct information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to offer my condolences to Mr W and his family for the loss of his 
father. And assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly 
difficult time for the family, and I dont want to add to their distress. But I cant say AIG has 
treated them unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AIG thinks Mr Ws father failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he completed the application form in September 2013. 
Ive looked at the question Mr Ws father was asked when he applied for the policy. It said:
Have you had asthma, bronchitis or any other chest or lung disorder in the last 5 
years? (Examples of chest or lung disorders can include but not are limited to 
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), pulmonary fibrosis and any 
breathing difficulties. You do not need to disclose a common cold or flu lasting for 
less than 2 weeks. 
Mr Ws father answered no to this question. The question is I think clear and unambiguous, 
and asked Mr Ws father if he had any lung problems at all, providing examples of what 
conditions that might include. 
I can see from Mr Ws fathers medical records that he was having breathing difficulties since 
April 2012 which led to a COPD diagnosis in October 2012. His condition was reviewed in 
January 2013, prior to the application, and in December 2013, after the policy was in place. 
This suggests to me that Mr Ws father had an ongoing lung condition, which he was aware 
of, and so I think its reasonable that AIG has said he shouldve answered yes to this 
question. 
Ive looked carefully at what Mr W has said about why his father didnt complete the 
application form correctly. I can understand the point about his fathers age, and how 
overwhelming it can be when completing lengthy application forms. And how his father tried 
to mitigate this by suggesting to AIG that it contact his GP for a full medical report in support 
of the application. But CIDRA is clear that its a customers responsibility to make sure the 
information they provide is correct and makes no allowances for a customers age  rather it 
sees them as a reasonable person who must take reasonable care when completing the 
application form. 
Mr Ws father did disclose several health conditions on the application, which suggests to me 
that he had capacity to answer questions correctly. And if he was unsure of how to answer a 
question, or whether his answer was correct, the onus wouldve been on him to take 
reasonable care to have checked. Whilst I understand Mr Ws point that his father completed 
the application in good faith and to the best of his ability, the importance of making sure 
information was correct was made clear to him, and he was given an opportunity to further 
check the application when the cover was put in place. And so, I think it was clear the onus 
was on Mr Ws father to answer all questions on the application correctly. 
Ive looked at the copy of the letter Mr Ws father attached to his application. This suggests 
his openness to engage in the application process, giving full consent for information to be 
obtained from his GP. But this letter wouldnt have required AIG to contact Mr Ws fathers GP as a matter of course. It didnt alert AIG to Mr Ws fathers COPD specifically, and given 
hed answered no to the question relating to COPD on the application, I cant see anything 
that would suggest to me that AIG needed any more information on this point from Mr Ws 
father or his GP as part of the application process. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I do understand Mr Ws strength of feeling here, I cant 
say AIG treated his father unfairly when it accepted the application in good faith based on 
the answers he provided. 
Ive also looked at what AIG wouldve done if Mr Ws father had told it about his COPD. AIG 
has provided evidence from its underwriting criteria which shows that based on the severity 
of Mr Ws fathers COPD, it wouldnt have offered him cover. This means Im satisfied 
Mr Ws fathers misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
AIG treated Mr Ws fathers misrepresentation as careless. This means the policy was 
looked upon as if it never existed, the claim was declined, and all the premiums were 
refunded. I dont think Mr Ws father made a deliberate mistake. He showed a willingness to 
engage in the application process and disclosed other medical conditions. And so, I agree 
with AIG that the misrepresentation should be treated as careless and Im satisfied its 
actions are a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. So, I wont be asking AIG to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold the estate of Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman