DRN-3800689
The complaint
Mr E trading as C complains Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity Company 
(Elavon) unfairly charged him Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards 
(PCI DSS) non-compliance fees.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Mr E entered into a merchant services agreement with Elavon via a third party. Im 
satisfied from the agreement between the parties it was made clear he needed to be 
PCI DSS compliant and that if he wasnt, fees would be charged.
Mr E says at the point of sale he was told he could use a third party for PCI DSS 
certification and scanning. From what Ive seen, this was accurate  he could. 
Elavon asks merchants to upload certain documents, at certain intervals, to its portal 
to demonstrate PCI DSS compliance. And it sends emails to let merchant know when 
action is required. I dont find this approach unusual, or inherently unfair.
The onus was on Mr E to demonstrate to Elavon he was PCI DSS complaint. Mr E 
says he faced difficulties uploading documents. But theres nothing compelling to 
suggest this was because of a problem with Elavons portal. Nor do I find Elavon 
declined to assist Mr E. It did, for example, invite him to call for a walkthrough.  
Im not satisfied Mr E uploaded the right documents, at the right intervals. So while I 
accept Mr E says he was PCI DSS complainant, I find it was reasonable for Elavon to 
consider he wasnt.  
As Mr E didnt satisfy Elavons PCI DSS compliance requirements, I consider it was 
fair and reasonable for it to charge non-compliance fees, in line with their merchant 
services agreement.
Mr E is dissatisfied with the service he received from Elavon more generally. Having 
reviewed the contact between the parties holistically, I find the service Elavon 
provided was satisfactory.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E trading as C 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman