DRN-2631121
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. unfairly refused to pay her claim for the cancellation of her and her sons 
holiday under their travel policy when their travelling companion became ill and unable to go.
What happened
Mrs P and her friend who I shall call Miss J had decided to go on holiday together with their 
children due to take place in July 2019. Very sadly Mrs P was diagnosed with cancer in June 
2019 and had to start treatment right away. This meant their holiday needed to be cancelled.
Mrs P bought her travel policy with Mapfre on 22 February 2019.
Mrs P managed to get some costs back but made a claim to Mapfre for some 
accommodation costs. Mapfre investigated the medical condition of Mrs P. It decided that 
since she was being investigated for some pain since November 2018 and had been 
referred to a consultant for this pain the day before the policy was bought, it wouldnt cover 
her claim given the terms and conditions of the policy. It did however offer her £100 
compensation for its delay in dealing with her claim.
Mrs P complained but Mapfre wouldnt change it stance. So, she brought her complaint to 
us. The investigator didnt think Mapfre had done anything wrong. Mrs P disagreed so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
But first I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Mrs P will be. The circumstances 
of this complaint are very sad given Mrs Ps diagnosis of cancer and her continuing ongoing 
treatment. However, my role is to assess if Mapfre did anything wrong under the terms and 
conditions of its policy and I dont think it did. Ill explain.
 
The policy is clear on that cover for cancellation is limited when it concerns a medical 
condition of the policyholder, as it says the following is excluded:
4. Cancelling or cutting short your trip because of a medical condition or any illness 
related to a medical condition you knew about at the time of taking out this insurance 
and/or, prior to the booking of any individual trip unless this has been declared to 
Virgin Money Travel Insurance and we have accepted cover for this in writing (see 
Declaration of medical conditions on pages 3 and 4.) 
It also explains the following:
 
Medical exclusions 
If, at the time of purchasing this policy or when booking a trip, the following 
criteria apply to you or anyone insured under this policy, you will not be 
covered for any claim arising directly or indirectly from that medical 
condition: 
A Anyone who is receiving or waiting for medial tests of treatment for any 
medical condition or set of symptoms that have not been diagnosed.
Medical exclusions criteria 
Therefore, the issue is what was known about Mrs Ps medical condition at the time of taking 
out the policy on 22 February 2019. She had a minor pain in her side since November 2018 
for which she had sought treatment from her GP. This pain was originally thought to have 
originated from scar tissue from a previous operation. On 8 February 2019 her medical notes 
state the pain was getting worse and affecting her job. I do think this note in the medical 
records is significant. From this a referral was made to a general surgery consultant to 
investigate more, and this referral was made on 19 February 2019. Very sadly following 
further investigations following on from that referral, it was discovered she had cancer and 
so would have to cancel her holiday. Mrs P has told us it was only following a scan in March 
2019 to look more closely at the scar tissue issue that it discovered something untoward 
which turned out to be cancer.
 
There is no evidence to show me that it was only after the buying of the policy Mrs P showed 
symptoms of what was eventually diagnosed so sadly as being cancer. Its very clear to me 
from Mrs Ps medical history, the investigations into the pain she was suffering identified the 
cancer. Mrs Ps GP when asked the question on the Mapfres form:
 
What ongoing medical condition(s) or medical complications directly attributable to 
the condition(s) [namely Mrs Ps cancer] was being investigated by a registered 
medical practitioner at:
(a) the date the policy was purchased
(b) the date the trip was booked.
pointed to the fact Mrs P was being referred to a consultant for further investigation of this 
pain she was suffering. Therefore, Mrs Ps GP firmly linked the pain she was suffering from 
to the eventual sad diagnosis of cancer. So, on that basis there is no nothing to show me 
Mapfre were wrong to refuse to pay this claim. 
I fully understand and appreciate that Mrs P was fully unaware at the time she bought the 
policy her health was such that it was likely their planned and very much look forwarded to 
holiday would end up needing to be cancelled. But clearly Mrs P knew she had this pain and 
knew that it was being investigated further at the time the policy was taken out. Therefore, 
on balance, I dont think Mapfre did anything wrong in refusing to pay Mrs Ps claim.
However, I do think the claims process took too long which caused Mrs P some distress and 
upset. Mapfre obviously had to liaise with Mrs Ps doctors which can add to delays. There 
were instances according to Mrs P when Mapfre said it was waiting for medical evidence, 
but Mrs Ps doctors said they hadnt received a request. Mapfre didnt give us the entire of its 
claims file to fully assess this but it accepted it had delayed and paid Mrs P £100 
compensation for its delays. I consider thats reasonable. This level of compensation is in 
line with what I have awarded in other cases in similar circumstances. 
My final decisionSo, whilst I do understand and appreciate Mrs P will be very disappointed, for these reasons 
its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman