DRN-3241407
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of the estate of Mrs S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has failed to 
provide sufficient information on the whereabouts of contents held in safe custody. 
What happened
Mr S is the executor for his late mothers estate. Hes located a safe custody receipt dated 
August 1980 for one sealed envelope, contents unknown to the bank.  He asked for the 
envelope to be released to him, but HSBC says it has no record of it. Mr S is concerned that 
its been lost or stolen. And he doesnt think HSBC has done enough to locate it. So he 
raised a complaint.
HSBC says the receipt indicates that Mrs S had used its closed safe keeping service  which 
is where the bank doesnt know the contents of what its holding in its custody. This is a 
service that HSBC removed several years ago, and all customers that used the service were 
contacted between February 2016 and September 2017 and asked to collect their items. 
HSBC has confirmed that Mrs S wasnt contacted as nothing was held for her in closed safe 
keeping at that time.
Because of this, HSBC believe that Mrs S withdrew the contents from safe custody 
sometime between August 1980 and September 2017. It searched its systems for any 
records but hasnt been able to locate any. It says its retention policy is to hold these records 
for seven years, so its likely it was withdrawn over seven years ago. 
HSBC also says that the original receipt isnt needed to withdraw the contents of safe 
custody, so the existence of the receipt isnt indicative that the contents wasnt withdrawn by 
Mrs S.
HSBC has confirmed that Mrs S did hold documents in its open safe keeping service  which 
is where the bank knows the contents of what its holding in its custody. These documents, 
namely a will and codicil, were deposited in 2006 and were released to Mr S as executor in 
May 2020.
Mr S didnt accept what HSBC said, so he brought his complaint to our service. He says he 
found the receipt amongst his mothers current paperwork, rather than with other historical 
documents which indicates the contents wasnt withdrawn by Mrs S. He says HSBC should 
retrieve its ledgers from storage to see if theres any entries relating to this envelope. He 
doesnt think HSBC has done enough to show its no longer in its custody or that it hasnt 
been lost or stolen. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied HSBC had done enough to 
locate the safe custody and she didnt think it needed to do anything further. As Mr S didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, then I have to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is most likely to have happened.
In situations such as this, our service would expect a bank to show that it undertook 
reasonable searches of the records it holds, to see whether any information on the safe 
custody can be found. I cant reasonably require HSBC to do anything more than that. 
HSBC has told us that its closed safe keeping service no longer exists and that no contact 
was made with Mrs S asking her to collect any items when the service was discontinued. 
This indicates that by 2017, the contents had either been withdrawn or transferred to the 
open safe keeping service. 
Ive been provided with a screenshot of HSBCs system which shows the only documents in 
safe custody were the will and codicil in open safe keeping which were deposited in 2006 
onwards. Given that there are no other records, I believe its most likely any other documents 
were withdrawn or moved more than seven years prior. I think its most likely that if theyd 
remained in closed safe keeping, Mrs S wouldve been contacted in 2016 and asked to 
remove her items  and there would be a record of this on HSBCs system.
Mr S is unhappy with the lack of information available. But I think its understandable given 
that over 40 years has passed since the item was put in safe custody and information 
suggests it was removed more than seven years ago. Banks dont generally keep records for 
longer than six years and I cant say its unfair for HSBC to destroy its old records, especially 
where its complying with data retention laws. 
I appreciate Mr S has found a receipt within his late mothers current paperwork which 
shows no indication the safe custody was closed. But this doesnt prove the item remains 
with HSBC  nor that it was lost or stolen. As HSBC has explained, the receipt wouldnt be 
needed to withdraw the item. And its possible Mrs S failed to remove the receipt from her 
records after doing so. 
Having looked at everything, Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably when 
searching its records for this envelope. And Im persuaded that its most likely that the item 
was withdrawn from safe custody. Its unfortunate, but not unexpected after this amount of 
time, that HSBC dont have any records to show exactly what happened. 
Whilst I understand this is frustrating for Mr S, and he has my deepest sympathy for his 
bereavement, I cant fairly say that HSBC has done anything wrong or unfair here. So Im not 
upholding his complaint or asking HSBC to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman