DRN-3604644
The complaint
Mrs B complains on behalf of the estate of Mr B that Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd gave her husband, Mr B, unsuitable advice to transfer his pensions into a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and use the SIPP to invest in unquoted shares. As 
a result, she says Mr B was deemed to have received an unauthorised payment and the 
estate incurred  a tax charge, while the shares have no apparent value. 
What happened
Mr B had a number of pensions. Mrs B says in 2014 a neighbour referred Mr B to 
Wealthmasters, saying he had invested his pension with the help of Wealthmasters, and 
Mr B would be able to take advantage of new rules to access some of his pension funds.
Mr B contacted Wealthmasters and had some discussions with an adviser. Wealthmasters 
prepared a retirement planning report in November 2014. This set out a number of points, 
including that
Mr B was certified by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in relation to his work 
involving investments, and was a sophisticated investor;
he wanted advice on a suitable wrapper to allow for a wide range of investments 
outside the standard type; and 
he had an adventurous attitude to risk (ATR) and capacity for loss due to his wealth. 
Wealthmasters also prepared a fact find document, which noted that Mr B didnt intend to 
retire until 65 and was a trader earning in the high rate tax bracket; had £600,000 life cover; 
£100,000 on deposit; and owned a property worth over £1million with a mortgage of around 
£230,000. 
The report recommended that Mr B use a SIPP to invest his funds in shares in some 
companies involved in research projects. Mr B accepted the advice. He opened a SIPP and 
invested in shares through a company based abroad, which Ill call D, as follows:
200 shares in a company (C) in December 2014 for the sum of £200,000;
200 shares in another company (L) in April 2015 for the sum of £200,000;
a further 200 shares in L in May 2015 for the sum of £ 120,000.
Following these investments, Mr B received payments from D amounting to 78% of the value 
of his SIPP - £154,000 in December 2014; £158,000 in March 2015; and £94,800 in April 
2015. He used this money to purchase buy-to-let properties which were then rented out to 
tenants.
Very sadly, Mr B died in February 2018. Mrs B started dealing with his estate and 
corresponded with Wealthmasters about Mr Bs SIPP and the shares he had bought. She 
later made a complaint against Wealthmasters, with support from her solicitors. They said 
Wealthmasters failed to advise Mr B properly on the risk that this would be considered to be 
a pension liberation scheme and would lead to a tax charge  Mr B was advised this was a 
legitimate way of accessing funds in his pension and wasnt given any advice about the risk 
that HMRC would challenge the scheme. And they said as a result of the poor advice, Mrs B 
was now faced with losses as the shares were effectively worthless, and the estate would be 
liable for a large tax payment.
Wealthmasters did not uphold the complaint, saying:
it was made very clear to Mr B that he should get his own legal and tax advice;
Mr B had plenty of time to do his own due diligence and confirmed he had done this;
he was very familiar with financial matters and the need for due diligence  he wasnt 
a retail client but a high net worth individual and sophisticated investor;
tax advice was obtained from a very experienced expert who said this wasnt pension 
liberation, but ultimately it would be for the courts to decide if it was.
When Mrs B referred the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He agreed that Wealthmasters had not advised Mr B properly, in particular because 
the relevant good practice was that unregulated investments should be limited to no more 
than 5% of a portfolio, and Mr B had invested all his funds in unregulated shares. But he 
didnt think Wealthmasters was responsible for any loss because, amongst other things:
it was Mr B who approached Wealthmasters as he was keen to access his pension 
funds;
given his own relevant experience and knowledge, he should have had some 
awareness of the risks himself; 
the risks would then be balanced with any potential reward  and his attitude to risk 
was that of an adventurous investor; and 
he would likely have gone ahead even if he had been given appropriate advice. 
Mrs B disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
During the complaint, her solicitors have raised a number of points on her behalf. I wont set 
them out in full, but they include:
The driving force behind what happened wasnt that Mr B wanted more control over 
his pension, or liked unquoted shares, but the fact that Wealthmasters suggested a 
tax free structure that allowed him to obtain a significant payment out of his pension 
before the age of 55.
Its unsatisfactory for Wealthmasters to rely on handwritten notes to suggest Mr B 
was provided with advice and risk warnings. Wealthmasters had the opportunity to 
include that advice in writing and failed to do so. The draft suitability letter does 
provide risk warnings about the high risk nature of unquoted shares, but provides no 
advice about the payment received by Mr B and the risk this could be considered to 
be a pension liberation scheme.
The letter doesnt suggest that Mr B seek independent tax advice. If such a 
recommendation had been made, its highly likely Mr B would have sought such 
advice and would have received advice that there was a clear risk the scheme could 
be considered to be pension liberation.
Mrs B says Mr Bs expertise wasnt in pensions or tax and its unfair to assume he would 
have understood the risks of this very complicated scheme without having appropriate 
advice. And she says it is fanciful to suggest that anyone, fully aware of the risks, would 
enter into a pension liberation scheme if the risks that the scheme could (and probably 
would) fail had been explained to them.
Before proceeding with my decision I asked about what information Mr B had been given 
from his previous pension providers about the risk of pension liberation schemes. In 
response, Mrs Bs solicitors have provided documents showing he was given information 
about this. They have also made a number of further comments. Again, I wont set them all 
out in full but they include:All pension transfers after February 2013 are likely to comply with the requirements 
to warn members of the risk of pension liberation. This doesnt mean that since this 
time financial advisers have been able to advise their clients to invest in pension 
liberation schemes, on the basis that the ceding scheme ensure their members are 
properly warned about pension liberation  advisers still have to provide suitable and 
appropriate financial advice, and act honestly, fairly and professionally, and in 
accordance with the best interests of their client. 
The success or failure of the scheme rested solely on the valuation of the shares. 
Wealthmasters was duty bound to review the valuation and provide advice on this. If 
it had done so, it would have been clear that there was no independent valuation and 
it was inevitable the scheme would fail.
HMRC made it clear the excess paid by the pension scheme over the value of the 
shares is an unauthorised payment.
Wealthmasters should have advised Mr B that the valuation was misleading and that 
he couldnt rely on it. If Wealthmasters had done this, and provided full and robust 
risk warnings, particularly with regard to the very real probability that the scheme was  
pension liberation, then on the balance of probabilities, Mr B would not have 
proceeded with the transfer to the SIPP and investment in the scheme. In short, but 
for Wealthmasters negligence, Mr B would not have invested in the scheme. 
Any very general risk warnings that the ceding schemes may or may not have 
provided are irrelevant, as Mr B was entitled to rely on the expert advice of his 
financial adviser.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs solicitors have referred to Wealthmasters duties as set out in the principles and 
guidance provided by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Ive taken these into 
account when making my decision. They include that Wealthmasters must:
Conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely on its judgment.
Take reasonable steps to ensure that any personal recommendation is suitable.
Obtain enough information to ensure its recommendation meets the customers 
objectives, that they can bear the risks involved and have the necessary experience 
and knowledge to understand the risks.
When advising on the SIPP, Wealthmasters had to consider the nature of the investments to 
be held within the SIPP, and the suitability of the overall proposition  both the wrapper itself 
and the underlying investments in unregulated schemes.
In relation to unregulated investments, the FCAs good and poor practice report gave 
examples of good practice. This advises limiting unregulated investments to between 3% 
and 5% of a portfolio, with ongoing monitoring of the investments. 
Im satisfied Wealthmasters knew how Mr B intended to invest  the information I have seen 
indicates Wealthmasters knew he would invest in unquoted shares, and it was copied into 
emails for the purchases of those shares. The email correspondence also shows 
Wealthmasters was the introducer. And the documents record Wealthmasters as having 
given full advice.Wealthmasters was aware of Mr Bs pension portfolio, and that far more than 5% of it would 
be invested in high-risk investments. Mr B invested over 90% of his total pension portfolio 
into unquoted shares. Unregulated investments shouldnt be promoted to the general public. 
The FCAs report said investments like this may be suitable for a very select group of 
individuals, for example, certified high net worth investors or sophisticated investors. But 
even with these investors, the recommended investments wouldnt exceed 5%.
Mr B was entitled to make this investment if he wished  but he should have been given 
advice against this. And there was clearly an issue, not just that these were high risk 
investments, but that they might be considered to amount to pension liberation. The 
suitability letter did provide warnings about the high risk nature of unquoted shares, but gave 
no advice about the payments received by Mr B and the risk this could be considered to be a 
pension liberation scheme.
Wealthmasters says it was made clear to Mr B he should get his own legal and tax advice, 
but that wasnt set out clearly in the suitability letter. In any event, given Wealthmasters 
obligations in relation to advising Mr B, I dont think it would have been enough simply to 
recommend that he seek advice elsewhere. Wealthmasters should have ensured its 
recommendation met Mr Bs objectives and that he could bear the risks involved. I dont 
think Wealthmasters met its obligations or that the advice it gave was suitable. 
But having said all that, I have to consider what the consequences were, and whether Mr Bs 
estate has suffered a loss as a result. Even a firm got something wrong, I still have to 
consider whether the error caused the loss or harm alleged.
Mrs B says Mr B was careful and would not have done anything that wasnt above board. 
And she says he was told he could legitimately access his pension and he was adamant it 
was above board. I cant ignore the fact Mr B approached Wealthmasters because a 
neighbour, who was a client, recommended the firm as a way to access his pension funds. 
This indicates Mr B was keen on doing that  it was, after all, why he approached 
Wealthmasters in the first place. 
The funds released to Mr B were used to purchase buy-to-let properties. He bought these 
soon after, which indicates they werent late decisions. I also note the SIPP seems to have 
been established before the report had been issued or Mr B had agreed to the fee schedule. 
The evidence indicates that Mr B was keen to proceed without waiting for the advice to be 
set out in full. 
Wealthmasters says it wouldnt have told Mr B he could access his funds. But I think its 
likely Mr B became aware he could access his pension in some way, since thats why he 
approached Wealthmasters. 
Mr B could be considered a high net-worth individual given the value of the assets he had at 
the time. And he was regulated by the FCA in relation to investments. Given his experience, 
he would have had more knowledge than others. His particular expertise may not have been 
in pensions or tax, but its more likely than not someone in his position would have known 
there were rules preventing a customer accessing their pension funds before age 55. And 
the documents from one of his previous pension providers (with whom he had the vast 
majority of his pension funds) show he signed a declaration saying 
I have read the enclosed leaflet Predators stalk your pension and understand that there 
could be serious tax consequences for my pension benefits if I transfer to a scheme or 
arrangement that is later deemed to have committed Pension Liberation Fraud.
On balance, I think its likely he would have been aware there were risks involved in accessing his funds, yet he went ahead in any event.
Mrs Bs solicitors question the relevance of any warnings from the previous pension 
providers. They say regardless of any warnings, the adviser still had to provide suitable 
advice. I agree with that. But the warnings are relevant not to the advice given by 
Wealthmasters, but to Mr Bs response to that advice. They are evidence that he would have 
been aware of the risk but was keen to go ahead anyway. So even if he had been given 
better advice, they indicate that he would have acted in the same way. And they are 
consistent with the other evidence that Mr B approached Wealthmasters with a view to 
accessing his pension funds, and proceeded before he had received full advice.
Ive considered Mrs Bs comments about how Mr B would have behaved but on balance, I 
think the evidence shows he would have acted in the same way. Mrs Bs solicitors say that 
but for the poor advice, Mr B would not have gone ahead with the investments. Im not 
persuaded thats the case. I appreciate this has been an extremely difficult situation for 
Mrs B but for the reasons set out, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman