DRN-3385383
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc caused delays to a claim he made 
against an insurance policy linked to his reward bank account. 
What happened
Everything seems to have happened here in October 2021. Mr K lost his mobile phone on 
9 October. He tried to make an insurance claim immediately. But the insurer said there was 
a problem that Mr K would need to speak to RBS about. 
Mr K contacted RBS but couldnt seem to get the problem fixed. So he complained. By 
28 October, RBS accepted they were responsible for the claim not going ahead. They gave 
Mr K a written confirmation that he was entitled to the insurance cover. The claim then looks 
to have gone ahead with the insurer on 29 October. RBS also paid Mr K £100, to apologise, 
and acknowledge the upset and inconvenience caused. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us, but our investigator found that RBS had done enough to 
put things right in this case. Mr K disagreed, noting that his underlying conditions meant 
being without his phone could have been very bad, and saying he was out of pocket from 
paying a family member for an old phone to use. 
Unresolved, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear exactly where the failing is in RBSs service. But it seems like they should have 
done more to make sure Mr Ks details had been passed to the insurer when he opened his 
reward account. Failing to do that is consistent with Mr Ks comments that the insurer had 
said he wasnt able to make a claim.
I appreciate Mr K has commented at length about something his insurer told him  that RBS 
had told them the balance of Mr Ks account made him ineligible to make a claim. But I cant 
see any evidence of that being said to the insurer by RBS. And I cant see that was a 
condition of the insurance being provided with Mr Ks account. The information Ive seen  
admittedly not the full contract  just says payment of the monthly account fee would mean 
Mr K was covered by the insurance. 
Ive also seen a note from RBSs call to the insurer on 28 October. That says all that was 
needed to resolve the issue was written confirmation that Mr K could pass on to the insurer, 
saying he had a suitable account. I give that the most weight in identifying what the actual 
issue was here, as its consistent with how the problem was fixed. 
But the more important question for me here is what needs to be done to put things right. 
Here, I can see the written information on 28 October allowed the claim to progress. So 
theres nothing further RBS need to do as far as the claim is concerned. 
What remains is to acknowledge the impact the delay had on Mr K. To put a financial value 
on an emotional  and largely non-financial  impact. I appreciate there will be different 
opinions about what a suitable amount will be. 
In my opinion, the £100 payment RBS made is right for this case. It reflects that Mr Ks claim 
was delayed by a relatively short amount of time  20 days from 9 to 29 October. While Mr K 
has said about the possible impacts of not having a phone during that time, I note that he did 
actually have access to one. He mentioned having a landline, and the use of another mobile 
phone. So I dont think its right to factor in what might have happened if he hadnt had those.
The other point to consider is Mr Ks claim that he bought a relatively expensive phone to 
use during the time he was waiting. I find the amount Mr K says he spent  £300  was 
excessive. Working phones can be purchased for much less than this. And he wasnt 
needing to replace his lost phone permanently  at no point was the insurer saying his claim 
was rejected. It was always more of an administrative issue that  once sorted out  wouldnt 
have prevented Mr K from making the claim for his lost phone. 
The £100 RBS have already paid does a reasonable job of reflecting the impact on Mr K in 
this case. He was upset, and inconvenienced  and it took him a while to get anywhere from 
speaking to RBS on the phone. But that lasted less than three weeks. And the mistakes only 
delayed his claim, rather than preventing it from being made at all. 
That all means Im not upholding this complaint  even though there was a failing in the 
service  because I find theres nothing further needed from RBS to resolve it.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman