DRN-2662297
The complaint
 Mr B complained that his loan was transferred to a debt collection agency by The Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
 RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs B in June 2019 to say they didnt want to provide banking facilities
to them. There were several current accounts and a loan. The current accounts were closed.
The loan  in the name of Mr B - was transferred to a debt collection agency.
Mr B complained that the letter he received in June 2019 didnt say that the loan had to be
transferred. He had never missed a payment. He wanted to leave it with RBS and make
payments to it from his new bank.
RBS wrote to Mr B in September 2019. They said that the letter sent to Mr B in June 2019
stated that all monies owing to the bank should be repaid within 60 days. Mr Bs loan had
been passed to a debt collection agency and he would have to make repayments to them.
Mr B complained to this service in February 2020. Our investigator looked at what had
happened. In April 2020, she said that RBS had transferred the loan back from the debt
collection agency. Payments to it were being made from his new bank. So, Mr B agreed to
drop the complaint.
In June 2020, Mr B was told by RBS that his loan had been transferred back to the debt
collection agency. So, he complained to this service again. RBS wrote to Mr B in June 2020.
They said that theyd taken back the loan while Mr Bs original complaint was with the
financial ombudsman service. They said that this service had said that RBS could transfer
the loan  and therefore it had been sent back to the debt collection agency.
Mr Bs complaint was passed to an ombudsman to review. 
I reached a provisional decision which said:
From the time that RBS wrote to Mr B in June 2019, he maintained that as far as he was
concerned, the letter asking him to close his accounts didnt specify his loan account. He
wanted to leave it with RBS and make payments to it from his new bank. In their letter dated
September 2019, RBS said their closure letter in June 2019 said that all money owing to
them should be repaid within 60 days  so they were relying on that. So, when the loan
wasnt repaid, it was passed to a debt collection agency.
Ive looked the letter sent to Mr B in June 2019. In the heading it lists four accounts. The loan
account (number ending 2128) isnt shown. It says We formally demand repayment of any
funds owed to the Bank at the end of 60 days from the date of this letter, failing which the
Bank will follow its normal debt recovery procedures. But - the letter goes on to say With
regard to your personal/business loan/mortgage, we strongly recommend that you give
serious consideration to transferring this borrowing to another lender. If your borrowing
remains with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, you are still liable to fund this facility by
making the agreed weekly/monthly/other repayments for the full period of the borrowing as
stipulated, within the Terms and Conditions/Loan agreement. The following repayment
methods are acceptable:
1. You could set up a weekly/monthly/other Standing Order or Direct Debit from an account
outside of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc; or alternatively
2. By weekly/monthly/other credit to your personal/business loan/mortgage account ensuring
that each instalment is received in advance of the agreed repayment date. These can be
paid using:
- a debit or credit card from a provider outside of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group
plc
- by cheque or cash credit to your account at any branch of The Royal Bank of
Scotland plc.
So, it seems to me the letter gave Mr B the option to leave his loan with RBS  as long as he
paid the instalments. Which he has.
In its letter to Mr B dated June 2020, RBS said that this service said in April 2020 that it
agreed that they could transfer Mr Bs loan to a debt collection agency  Ive reviewed what
the investigator said to both RBS and Mr B  and this was not the case. It was simply that Mr
B had agreed to drop his complaint as the loan was back with RBS.
The letter sent to Mr and Mrs B in June 2019 wasnt specific in asking for the loan to be
repaid  and in fact, gave them the option of leaving it with RBS. So, my provisional decision
is that RBS should take back the loan from the debt collection agency. And it follows that if
any adverse information has been reported to the credit reference agencies in connection
with this, it should be removed.
We received no comments from either Mr and Mrs B nor RBS.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As we received no comments from either RBS nor Mr and Mrs B, I wont be departing from 
what I said in my provisional decision for the reasons I gave in it. So, my final decision is that 
RBS should do what Ive suggested here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must transfer the loan debt back from the debt collection 
agency. And remove any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies in 
connection with the transfer of the loan to the debt collection agency.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman