DRN-4092312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that they were mis-sold timeshare and holiday club products. The 
company which managed one of the holiday clubs is in liquidation, and so they say that there 
has been a breach of contract on the part of the seller.
They say that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited financed the purchase of the club 
membership, so they have a claim against it in the same way as they have a claim against 
the seller. Ill refer to Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  as BPF.  
What happened
Over many years Mr and Mrs H have bought a range of timeshare and holiday club 
products. They have also put some of them up for sale. The documents I have seen indicate 
that they have bought:  
in 2004 Club Paradiso Membership with reference ISLA-0733;
in February 2006 Club Paradiso Membership with reference ISLA-0233;
in November 2006 Club Paradiso Membership with reference CITY-1097 and a 
Hollywood Mirage Club timeshare (apartment 3418 week 4); and  
in July 2015 Club Paradiso Membership with references ISLA-0775 and ISLA-0777. 
Mr and Mrs H have also taken out a number of loans to fund holiday club and timeshare 
memberships. They listed five, by reference to account numbers. BPF identified three in Mr 
Hs name, taken out on 19 November 2010, 30 October 2013, and 3 April 2014. All have 
been repaid. A £4,000 loan taken out on 3 April 2014 remains live. It appears that it was 
taken out by Mrs H to fund resale fees. 
In addition, Mr H opened a £20,000 credit facility with BPF in November 2006. Ill return to 
the significance of that later.  
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs H received a letter in their capacity as members of Club 
Paradiso telling them that Club Paradiso Limited had been placed into liquidation. The letter 
was from the liquidators. It explained that the company had been the manager of the Club 
and that there was no realistic prospect of the club being able to continue to provide services 
to its members. The liquidators had been able to arrange a deal with another holiday 
business, whereby members could buy accommodation on an annual basis at what was said 
to be a discounted rate. Members taking up the offer would have to relinquish their 
membership; alternatively they could elect to relinquish their membership without taking up 
the offer. Members who did not elect to do either would retain membership, but they would 
receive no benefits and would not have to pay any further fees. As far as I am aware, Mr and 
Mrs H did not make any election. 
They did however make a claim in the liquidation. The liquidators did not admit it. They said 
that Club Paradiso Limited and Club Paradiso were different entities and that Mr and Mrs H, 
along with other members, had no contractual relationship with the company. They noted 
that club memberships had been sold by Resort Properties Limited and Silverpoint 
Vacations SL.     
Mr and Mrs H said that, as BPF had financed the purchase of their club membership, they 
had a claim against it because they could no longer use the membership they had paid for. 
They referred the matter to this service, but our investigators did not recommend that it be 
upheld. The case was therefore referred to me for further consideration.         
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision, indicating that I was not 
likely to uphold the complaint. I said:
Authorisation to arrange the loan
Mr and Mrs H say that the sellers did not have proper authorisation from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). However, until 1 April 2014 consumer credit broking did not require 
FCA authorisation. It did however require a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The Financial Ombudsman Service was able to consider certain complaints about 
OFT licensees from 6 April 2007 under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction. 
Before that, however, we could not consider complaints about credit brokers or about 
consumer lending (unless, for example, it was carried out by a bank as an ancillary banking 
activity). 
For that reason, the fact that a business does not appear on the FCAs database as an 
authorised entity does not necessarily mean that it did not possess the authority to provide 
financial services. It depends on the services being provided and the date.
Indeed, BPF, as a consumer credit business, was not authorised by the FCA until April 2014. 
Before that, it was licensed by the OFT and, from 6 April 2007, covered by our consumer 
credit jurisdiction. One consequence of that is that I cannot consider Mr Hs complaint about 
BPF to the extent it concerns events before that date. As I shall explain, however, I think the 
actions which Mr and Mrs H are complaining about are much more recent than that. 
 Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
One effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that claim 
against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
As I have indicated, BPF made three loans to Mr H and provided him with a running credit 
facility. And it provided one loan to Mrs H. 
For section 75 to apply, I must first be satisfied that the contract in respect of which their 
claim arises was financed by BPF. Their claim arises from the closure of Club Paradiso, so I 
have considered whether any of the lending financed the purchase of Club membership. 
None of the dates of the four loans matches any date on which Mr and Mrs H bought club 
benefits. And the loan in Mrs Hs name was used to fund resale fees, not to buy club 
membership.  
It does appear however that the credit facility opened in November 2006 was used to fund 
the purchase of Club Paradiso membership, along with the Hollywood Mirage Club 
timeshare. I have therefore considered that contract in more detail. But it does not appear to me that BPF can be liable under section 75 in respect of any of the other transactions, since 
it did not fund them. And, since the credit facility was in Mr Hs sole name, only he can bring 
a claim under section 75. 
The November 2006 contract and credit facility
The November 2006 contract was entered into between Resort Properties Limited as seller 
and Mr and Mrs H as buyers. They bought membership benefits in Club Paradiso and a 
timeshare week in Hollywood Mirage Club. The total price was £19,301, of which £1,000 
was paid by credit card and the balance with finance in Mr Hs name. I believe that finance 
was provided by BPF; it wrote to Mr H on 14 December 2006, congratulating him on opening  
a Resorts Properties account. 
It appears therefore that it was Resort Properties which both sold the membership benefits 
and arranged the loan. It follows that, if Mr H has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against Resort Properties in respect of the November 2006 sale 
agreement, he has a like claim against BPF, to use the words of section 75.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs H into the 
November 2006 contract were made on or before 28 November 2006; since they were 
already club members, its possible that Mr and Mrs H relied on what they were told or their 
own experiences even before that. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF until 
many years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim 
against Resort Properties for misrepresentation would now be outside the time limit in the 
Limitation Act.
Be that as it may, I think that Mr Hs claim here is for breach of contract, not 
misrepresentation. That is, he says that he has not received what he paid for, or has only 
received part of it, since his club membership has been removed from him. The time limit for 
bringing a claim for breach of contract is also six years, but it runs from the date of the 
breach. The breach which Mr H alleges here occurred when Club Paradiso closed, so he 
raised it with BPF well within the six year limit.   
To have a claim arising from the liquidation of Club Paradiso Limited and the consequent 
removal of membership benefits, Mr H must show not only that membership benefits have 
been removed generally, but that the specific membership benefits he bought in November 
2006 have been removed. 
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were Club Paradiso members at the time of the liquidation 
in or about October 2020. Had that not been the case, the liquidators would have had no 
reason to contact them. As I have indicated, however, they bought membership packages on 
at least four occasions and had at least five different membership references. It also appears 
that they have sought to sell their holiday club memberships and timeshares on more than 
one occasion and that they no longer have their Hollywood Mirage Club membership, which 
they bought in November 2006.  
It is not clear therefore whether the Club Paradiso membership Mr and Mrs H bought in 
November 2006 remained in place in 2020. The liquidators might have contacted them because they had retained one or more of the other memberships they had bought over the 
years. In order for section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act to apply, I believe that Mr H needs 
to show that his continuing membership of Club Paradiso in October 2020 arose, wholly or in 
part, from the membership he bought in November 2006 under reference CITY-1097. At 
present I do not believe that he has done so. He may have sold it or relinquished it. 
I note as well that paragraph 20 of the Completion Statement issued in November 2006 
says:
We have received the Relevant rules and Regulations and have been directed to the 
section appertaining to Service Fees and duration of the Club. 
The reference to the duration of the Club might be an indication that the Club would run for a 
minimum number of years, or that the Rules and Regulations said what would happen if it 
closed. But, without seeing the Rules and Regulations, I do not believe that I can fairly 
conclude that its closure in 2020 would give rise to a claim for breach of contract in respect 
of a membership bought in 2006. 
Even if I were satisfied that the closure of the Club did constitute a breach of the November 
2006 contract, it does not follow that Mr H should receive all his money back. In saying that, I 
note the following:
The November 2006 contract price included the purchase of a timeshare interest in a 
different club. There is no allegation of a breach of that part of the contract. 
Assuming the CITY-1097 membership was still running in 2020, Mr and Mrs H have had 
its benefits for nearly 20 years. That is, they have on any basis received something for 
their money. 
Conclusions 
It is not for me to say whether the liquidation of Club Paradiso Limited gives rise to a claim 
against Resort Properties Limited in respect of the sale of the membership in November 
2020. Nor is it for me to say whether any such breach in turn gives rise to a claim against 
BPF under section 75. They are however matters which I must take into account in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My current view however is that its unlikely I shall be in a position to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint unless I am satisfied that:
membership under reference CITY-1097 remained valid at the time of the liquidation of 
Paradiso Club Limited;
there was nothing in the membership terms limiting its duration to less than what Mr and 
Mrs H had enjoyed; 
Mr and Mrs did not get all they had paid for  having in mind that they bought a 
timeshare at the same time and had several years of Club membership; and 
I consider it fair and reasonable to do so.   
  I will consider further submissions and evidence on these points (and any others the parties 
wish to raise) before I issue my final decision.  
I invited both parties to reply to my provisional decision with any further information or 
submissions that they thought I should take into account. However, neither BPF nor Mr H 
had any further evidence or arguments for me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since, however, there is no further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I do not 
believe there is any reason for me to change the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Hs complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman