DRN-2781345
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the transfer value that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) 
used when it transferred her plan to a new provider. She says it should have used the value 
of her plan at the time it was transferred  not the lower figure Phoenix used from 20 days 
earlier. She also complains about the delay in refunding a monthly contribution that couldnt 
be applied to the plan.
What happened
Mrs P held a retirement plan with Phoenix to which she contributed £80 per month. In 2019 
she, and her husband, decided to transfer their plans to a new provider and a request was 
submitted from that provider on 30 July 2019. The transfer value of Mrs Ps plan on that date 
was £198,671.62. But Phoenix required confirmation that Mr and Mrs P had been given 
advice and issued a Pension Advice Declaration (PAD) to their adviser on 1 August 2019.
The PAD was received on 21 August 2019, but Phoenix didnt work on the transfer until 
sometime later  although it said this was still within its normal service standards. Initially 
when it looked at the PAD Phoenix didnt think Mrs Ps adviser had the necessary 
permissions to request a transfer and requested new forms to be completed. But, upon 
further checking it decided that, as the adviser was a director of another firm that did have 
the correct permissions, he therefore held the necessary authority to request Mrs Ps 
transfer. That was on 11 September 2019. 
Phoenix says its process is always to use the value of a plan on the day after all its 
requirements are met  which in this case had been 22 August 2019. So, on 
11 September 2019 Phoenix confirmed that Mrs Ps pension, to the value of £199,418.61, 
had been sent to the new provider  using a transfer value date of 22 August 2019.
 
During this time Mrs Ps usual monthly contribution was paid into her plan on 
1 September 2019  although the money wasnt allocated due to the ongoing transfer. This 
premium was refunded to Mrs P in November 2019.
But Mrs P complained to Phoenix in September 2019 regarding the transfer value that had 
been used. She said that the value of her plan had risen during the time the transfer took to 
complete, and therefore Phoenix should use that higher value as her transfer value.
Phoenix said that it had backdated the transfer to when it had received all the outstanding 
paperwork, although it understood Mrs Ps frustration at having seen her plan grow in value 
while it was still held by Phoenix. It also apologised for the delay in refunding the outstanding 
£20 premium that couldnt be applied to the pension during the transfer and offered late 
payment interest for the delay, as well as £100 for the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
resolving the complaint.
But Mrs P didnt accept this resolution  especially as she and Mr P had previously 
experienced problems with Phoenix. So she brought her complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter.
He said the complaint should be upheld. He thought Phoenix had acted correctly in 
backdating the transfer value to the date it received all the outstanding requirements, but he 
thought the funds should have been invested with the new provider from that date as well. 
So he said Phoenix should pay Mrs P interest for the time it was delayed. He also said 
Phoenix should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But he 
thought that Phoenixs offer of interest and compensation for the delay in refunding the 
unallocated monthly premium and answering the complaint was fair and reasonable.
Mrs P didnt agree making the following points:
Phoenix received the PAD on 21 August 2019 but didnt action the transfer because 
it didnt believe her adviser held the relevant regulatory permissions to advise on the 
transfer.
It only proceeded with the transfer when it received confirmation of the permissions 
on 11 September 2019.
By that time the plan had increased significantly in value and so Phoenix ought to 
have used that figure as the transfer value.
Phoenix should also pay interest on the shortfall in the transfer value. 
Phoenix hasnt yet paid the £100 it offered in compensation. 
Mr Ps plan value should have been the same as Mrs Ps, but it wasnt. 
Mrs P asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to 
review. 
Phoenix subsequently agreed to pay late payment interest and an additional £200 as 
recommended by the investigator, but also said it was prepared to pay any financial loss as 
a result of delaying the transfer. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld in part, but I 
proposed a slightly different redress formula to the investigator. I made the following points 
in support of my conclusions:
Mrs P had raised a separate complaint about the performance and final values of her 
plan. I was only considering her complaint about the issues of the value that Phoenix 
used when her transfer was finalised.
I thought the transfer value that was used should have been the one that was based 
on the actual process that was known and agreed at the start of the transfer 
application. 
When Phoenix wrote to Mrs Ps adviser to request the PAD it explained that the 
transfer value it quoted wasnt guaranteed and the transfer would only complete 
when it received all the outstanding documents it required. 
Id seen evidence to show that Phoenix had all the outstanding documents by 
22 August 2019 and could have carried out the transfer after it checked the advisers 
authority to advise on the transfer. 
Phoenix initially didnt think the adviser was authorised to act for Mrs P but later 
realised he had the correct permissions by being a director of another firm. So it 
completed the transfer but not until 11 September 2019  by which time the transfer 
value had risen. 
But I thought Phoenix had set out the dates it would use as part of its normal process 
and that it was fair to use the value on the date that the information was provided, 
and not the later date after Phoenix had realised its error in not recognising that the 
adviser had been authorised to carry out the transfer all along.I thought this could be a situation where we might normally ask the business to pay 
the higher value so as not to create poor consumer outcomes. It could seem unfair 
for a business to benefit from such accidental good fortune.
However, Phoenix had agreed to make up any investment loss Mrs P might have 
suffered from the delayed transfer with her new provider, so Mrs P wouldnt incur any 
investment loss here under that resolution  which I thought was fair in the 
circumstances.
Phoenix also didnt refund an unapplied monthly premium in a timely manner. So I 
said it should compensate Mrs P a total of £200 for the lost interest on the unapplied 
premium and for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays.
I set out a redress formula so that Phoenix could put Mrs P back into the position she 
would now be in  if the transfer had completed when it should have done.  
Responses to my provisional decision 
Phoenix accepted my provisional decision and said it had written to Mrs Ps new provider to 
ask it to carry out the loss assessment calculation.
Mrs P said that overall she accepted the decision I had provisionally reached, but was 
unclear about how the redress calculation worked. She said that Phoenix had always told 
her that the transfer value would be calculated on the day of transfer, so she didnt 
understand why it didnt use the value of 11 September 2019. She thought, in simple terms, 
that she should be reimbursed the amount of £6,225.80  which was the difference in values 
between the two dates.  
She also said that when her husband contacted Phoenix on her behalf, he asked it not to 
make the same mistake with his application  and his transfer value was the same as the 
online valuation hed noted the day before his transfer completed. So she thought this 
showed the transfer value used should be the one from the day of a transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from them. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Phoenix set out the basis for how it would calculate 
Mrs Ps final transfer value in its documentation to her adviser dated 1 August 2019. This 
letter also required her adviser to return a PAD which he did by 21 August 2019. This meant 
all the outstanding information Phoenix needed to complete the transfer was in place and so 
it should have transferred the plan following that date using the stated transfer value. 
But Phoenix didnt complete the transfer because it made an error in confirming whether 
Mrs Ps adviser had the necessary transfer permissions. By the time it corrected that mistake 
the transfer was delayed to 11 September 2019. So I dont think Mrs P was entitled to have 
her transfer value based on that date because it was Phoenixs error that it was delayed until 
then. But Mrs Ps funds didnt receive any investment growth from 
22 August to 11 September 2019 because the new provider wasnt aware of any delay and 
Phoenix didnt make any allowance for the loss of investment growth during this time. 
So in order to ensure Mrs Ps funds are valued correctly Phoenix needs to calculate what 
they would now be worth if they were transferred on 22 August 2019 instead. Ive set that 
redress out below.I did previously explain that I thought Phoenix also shouldnt benefit from accidental good 
fortune here, and I thought carefully about whether it should have paid Mrs P the higher 
transfer value. But ultimately Phoenix has agreed to compensate Mrs P for any lost 
investment growth during the delay to the transfer, which I think is a reasonable alternative 
resolution in the circumstances. As Ive previously said it would be unfair for Mrs P to benefit 
from the increase in the transfer value too, as she should receive the transfer value which 
was noted when all the transfer requirements had been met  22 August 2019- and which 
was confirmed in the initial letter to her adviser.    
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if her funds had been invested by her new provider on the same date as 
Phoenix used to calculate the transfer value of her plan. 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs P's circumstances 
and objectives when she invested. 
What should Phoenix do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Phoenix must:
Compare the current value of Mrs Ps pension with its notional value if it had been 
invested with the new provider on 22 August 2019. If the notional value is greater 
than the actual current value there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Phoenix should pay into Mrs P's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Phoenix is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs P would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs P £200 for the disruption caused to her retirement planning and the delay 
in refunding her unapplied premium which resulted in a loss of interest/growth.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Phoenix deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs P how much has been taken off. Phoenix should give Mrs P a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs P in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman