DRN-3308631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a cancellation claim they
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs L booked a trip to a country Ill call F. They were due to travel
between 5 and 15 June 2020. In February 2020, Mr and Mrs L took out a single trip travel
insurance policy through a broker to cover their holiday. This policy included an additional
add-on Travel Disruption Extension, which provided enhanced cancellation benefits,
amongst other things.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation classified Covid-19 as a pandemic. And
on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised UK
nationals against all but essential travel abroad. Subsequently, on 23 March 2020, the UK
government imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement  commonly referred to as
lockdown. Fs government imposed similar restrictions. And travel restrictions remained in
place in both countries at the time Mr and Mrs L were due to travel.
On this basis, Mr and Mrs L cancelled their trip. Their travel provider issued them with a
refund. However, the hotel they were due to stay in retained their deposit as a cancellation
fee. But it said this amount could be used as a credit voucher, which would be valid for 12
months from the date of their planned stay, and which could be put towards a future booking.
As Mr and Mrs L said they didnt have plans to travel to F again in the future, they made a
claim on their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes assessed the claim under the Travel Disruption Extension section, which
covered changes to FCDO advice. However, it said the policy only covered a policyholders
losses which couldnt be recovered from elsewhere. As the travel provider had offered Mr
and Mrs L a credit voucher for the full value of their claim, it considered theyd been able to
recover their losses.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He noted that the
voucher had now expired. But he felt that given Mr and Mrs Ls age and the fact that theyd
said they didnt plan to travel to F again, the terms of the voucher were unreasonably
restrictive. So he recommended that Great Lakes should settle Mr and Mrs Ls claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ls claim. I 
said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered,
amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy and the circumstances of their
claim to decide whether Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first turned to look at the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of
Mr and Mrs Ls contract with Great Lakes. The Travel Disruption Extension sets out a list of
the insured events it covers, in the event that a policyholder has to cancel their trip. One of
these reasons is the FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders
destination.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was cancelled because the
FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. So I can understand why they feel
their unused accommodation costs should be covered by the policy.
However, this section of the policy says that Great Lakes will only cover a policyholders
irrecoverable accommodation costs  in other words, costs which they cant get back from
elsewhere. Great Lakes says that as the hotel offered Mr and Mrs L a credit note for the full
value of their claim; they havent suffered a financial loss for this booking which is covered
by the policy.
Ive next considered the terms of the hotels credit note. Ive seen a copy of email
correspondence between Mrs L and the hotel. The hotel provider said:
(The) 50% cancellation fee can be used as credit towards a stay within 12 months of the
original date of stay. Just let me know when you would like to reschedule your trip for.
So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs L hadnt suffered a financial
loss for this booking, when it assessed their claim, because the credit note would cover the
full value of their pre-paid deposit. Effectively then, I think Mr and Mrs L were provided with a
refund, in the form of the credit.
I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs L might prefer a cash refund for their stay. Im
aware that the effective expiry date of the credit has now passed, as Mr and Mrs L wouldve
needed to make use of it by June 2021. And I appreciate that travel plans during this period
remained uncertain. Ive taken into account too that Mr and Mrs L have told us that they
have no plans to travel outside of the UK. Theyve told us they have concerns that the hotel
wouldnt be able to accommodate them during their preferred request dates due to backlogs
of bookings and they told Great Lakes they were worried that trains would be booked up.
Ive thought about this very carefully. Mr and Mrs L say they dont have any future plans to
travel internationally again and even if they did, they wouldnt stay in that particular hotel.
Thats one of the reasons why they say the credit was of no use to them. I appreciate why
they may no longer wish to go to F or stay in the same hotel, but Ive seen no evidence
which persuades me there are any significant, medical or exceptional reasons to prevent
them from travelling.
In my view, based on the evidence available to it when it assessed Mr and Mrs Ls claim, it
was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs L had recovered their financial loss
from their accommodation provider.
Id add too that I would reasonably have expected Mr and Mrs L to get in touch with the
provider to ask whether or not it was prepared to extend the expiry date of the voucher,
given the relaxing and then reimposition of travel restrictions between the UK and F during
the period June 2020 to June 2021. Mr and Mrs L have told us that they havent done so
because they dont plan to stay in that hotel in the future. Its open to them to ask the hotel
whether its prepared to further extend the usage date of the voucher, or to now offer them a
cash refund of their costs. If Mr and Mrs L are able to obtain confirmation from the hotel that
its neither prepared to extend the date of the credit note, nor pay a cash refund, they cansend this evidence to Great Lakes to consider. It would then be for Great Lakes to assess
the claim further in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
But, as Ive set out above, on the evidence before me, I think it was fair and reasonable for
Great Lakes to conclude, at the point it assessed this claim, that Mr and Mrs L hadnt
demonstrated theyd suffered a financial loss of their hotel costs.
Overall, I currently find it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs
Ls claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept my provisional findings. They provided me with copies of 
shielding letters which Mr L had been sent in May and June 2020. These letters explained 
that Mr L was at higher risk of catching Covid-19 and should therefore stay at home until 18 
June 2020. They said that under those circumstances, they wouldnt have travelled to F and 
they referred to the travel situation remaining fragile. They also said that they didnt intend to 
contact the hotel in F either for an extension to the voucher or a cash refund, as theyd been 
refused a cash refund previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I still think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I was satisfied that based on the available 
evidence at the time it assessed the claim, itd been fair for Great Lakes to conclude that the 
credit voucher the hotel had offered Mr and Mrs L represented a refund of their costs. I also 
didnt think there was enough evidence to show a medical or significant reason why Mr and 
Mrs L couldnt make use of the voucher.
Mr and Mrs L have now provided me with copies of shielding letters which were sent to Mr 
L on 1 May and 3 June 2020. I accept that at this point, Mr L had been identified as being at 
higher risk of serious illness if he were to contract Covid-19 and that he was advised by the 
government to stay at home. However, while I appreciate this mustve been a worrying time 
for Mr and Mrs L, the second letter states that the shielding period would end on 18 June 
2020  a short while after Mr and Mrs L were initially due to travel. Theres no further 
medical or other evidence which shows that Mr L wouldve been advised against travel due 
to health concerns up until the end of June 2021. So Im not satisfied that the shielding 
letters are persuasive enough evidence that Mr and Mrs L wouldve been unable to travel for 
the whole of the validity period of the voucher. 
As I explained, I appreciate that travel plans did remain uncertain between June 2020 and 
June 2021, given the relaxing and reimposition of travel restrictions. But I still think it would 
be reasonable for Mr and Mrs L to ask the hotel whether its prepared to extend the terms of 
the voucher given the impact of Covid-19 on travel during this period. I understand Mr and 
Mrs L may not wish to do so, nor ask again for a cash refund. Nonetheless, it remains open 
to them to get in touch with the hotel to ask for confirmation that the voucher cant be 
extended and that it isnt prepared to offer a cash refund. Any such evidence could then be sent on to Great Lakes for further assessment.
Overall, taking the totality of the evidence available to it at the time it assessed Mr and Mrs 
Ls claim, I find that it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that theyd recovered their losses 
in the form of the credit voucher. So Ive decided it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman