DRN-3989525
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire Insurance) dealt 
with his claim following damage to his car. 
Skyfire Insurance are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agent, company C. As Skyfire Insurance have accepted they are accountable 
for the actions of company C, in my decision, any reference to Skyfire Insurance includes the 
actions of company C. 
What happened
Mr M held a car insurance policy with Skyfire Insurance. 
On 4 January 2022 Mr M took his car for an MOT. The result of the MOT recorded that the 
supplementary restraint system warning lamp indicates a fault. 
On 5 March following bad weather Mr Ms vehicle was damaged as a result of wheelie bins 
being blown into the front of his car. Mr M contacted company C to make a claim. 
On 22 April an approved repairer (AR) of company C completed an estimate for the work 
required to repair the damage on Mr Ms car. This estimate included front airbag sensor. An 
image taken at the time showed the airbag light illuminated.
 
The estimate and images were sent to an independent engineer (engineer H) for sign off. 
The independent engineer determined that the front bag air sensor would not be included in 
the scope of repair. 
On 27 May Mr Ms car was returned to him. On 30 May Mr M contacted company C and 
reported issues with the sensor not working. Mr M said he was told his car was not drivable. 
Company C said theyd ask engineer H for comments on why damage to the sensor had not 
been included. Mr M also spoke to the AR and was told you can arrange your own 
independent engineer, and if found to be incident related then we would reimburse your 
costs. Please note if you do arrange your own independent engineer we would need them to 
submit their document/findings to us.
On 24 June Mr M took his car to a repair garage [garage A] for them to determine what was 
wrong with his car. It was recorded Check for airbag light staying on since involved in a 
incident , Carry out Diagnostic check to Restraints control module found driver's frontal stage 
1and stage 2 - deployment control circuit open (intermittent), in our opinion this has been 
caused by impact to the front of the vehicle so would need to go to [car name] main dealer to 
be rectified.
 
Mr M sent this to the AR. The AR forwarded it to company C, who then forwarded it to 
engineer H for comment. Mr M didnt hear back from company C. 
Unhappy with the handling of his claim Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Skyfire Insurance told this service that engineer H has advised that [garage A] are unable to 
pinpoint the exact module or sensor that is at fault. It was suggested that the vehicle is 
referred to a [car name] main dealer as advised by garage A.  
Because the cause of damage hasnt been confirmed as being related to the accident, 
Skyfire Insurance maintain their position not to pay for the damage to the sensor. 
The investigator found that the service provided by Skyfire Insurance has been poor. The 
investigator said that Skyfire Insurance should pay Mr M £300 in recognition of the delay in 
dealing with his claim properly, lack of communication with him, and inconvenience caused. 
The investigator also asked Mr M to obtain a report from the main dealer for his car which 
would include a timestamp to show when the issue with the sensor started. This could then 
be used by Skyfire Insurance to determine whether this damage is accident related. 
Skyfire Insurance agreed with the investigators findings. Mr M rejected these findings, 
saying there was no mention of sending his car to a main dealer when he spoke to the AR 
about the issues with the sensor, and that the AR told him the impact of two large wheelie 
bins (approximate weight 15/20 kg empty), being hurtled onto my car during storm Eunice in 
February 2022 could certainly caused internal damage to [Mr Ms] vehicle. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Mr M feels strongly that company C have treated him unfairly by not including the work 
required to his sensor when repairing the damage to his car. I thank Mr M for taking the time 
to explain his personal circumstances and everything thats happened since the damage to 
car was discovered in March 2022. I understand it has been a difficult time for Mr M.  
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Skyfire Insurance have acted fairly and 
reasonably in reaching their decision on Mr Ms claim.    
Ive seen that the reason Skyfire Insurance didnt include repairs work to the sensor is 
because the independent engineer determined that this wasnt accident related. An 
engineers professional opinion is generally regarded as an impartial and independent view. 
An engineers professional duty is to the Court - not the business instructing them, or the 
customer. Because of this, generally wed say its fair for an insurer to rely on this evidence 
when dealing with a claim.
But I think there was some confusion about how the engineers findings were communicated 
to Mr M, and what he was asked to do in order for company C to reconsider his claim. Mr M 
was told by the AR that he could arrange his own independent engineer, and if found to be 
incident related then we would reimburse your costs. The terminology used here was engineer. But Ive seen that engineer H later explained that Mr M should take his car to a 
main dealer to determine the case of damage, and for company C to reconsider the claim.
Ive seen that following the advice from the AR, Mr M took his car to garage A. I accept that 
garage A is neither an engineer nor main dealer so these findings would not have been 
suitable for company C to reassess Mr Ms claim. 
I think company C shouldve better handled Mr Ms claim by allowing Mr M the opportunity to 
discuss the findings of engineer H, directly with engineer H. This shouldve been offered at 
the earliest opportunity- ideally when Mr M first raised the issue with his sensor after his car 
was returned to him in May 2022. If Mr M had spoken to engineer H sooner he wouldve 
been given correct information about what was needed in order to challenge the decision not 
to pay for the repairs to his sensor. Because this didnt happen Mr M took his car to a garage 
A believing this would be sufficient evidence to show that the damage to the sensor was 
accident related. I think the service provided here was poor.
Ive considered what wouldve happened if Mr M had been given correct information about 
his claim from the outset. And I think Mr M would likely find himself in the same position that 
he is in now. That is having to take his car to a main dealer before company C could further 
assess his claim. But I do think Mr M has been caused inconvenience that could otherwise 
have been avoided in company C had dealt with the claim properly from the outset.
The investigator recommended company C pay Mr M £300 in recognition of their poor 
handling of Mr Ms claim and impact on him. Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the 
investigators recommended compensation for this complaint for broadly the same reasons. I 
can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Company C shouldve handled Mr Ms claim properly by letting him know what hed need to 
do to challenge engineer Hs findings, and allowing him the opportunity to discuss directly 
with engineer H why damage to the sensor had not been included in the scope of repairs 
authorised. Because this didnt happen, Mr M was left chasing company C for updates, and 
feeling frustrated by their lack of response.  
When thinking about the impact on Mr M, I think the £300 recommended by the investigator 
is fair and in line with what wed recommend in the circumstances. This amount is in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr M by having to take his car to garage A when 
these findings would not have helped with his claim, and the upset caused by the lack of 
meaningful updates and communication with Mr M during his claim. 
 
Mr M says the compensation awarded doesnt reflect the work required to repair his car. I 
understand Mr M is ultimately unhappy with the outcome of his claim in respect of the sensor 
for his car not being repaired as part of the initial repair work.
 
As the cause of damage to the sensor hasnt been agreed, I dont think company Cs 
decision not to include this damage is unreasonable. I think £300 fairly recognises the 
impact on Mr M by what went with the handling of the claim, but also that the outcome of the 
claim, for now, remains unchanged. Putting things right
- Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must pay £300 to Mr M. 
- Should Mr M wish to take his car to a main dealer, he must do so within 30 days of 
this final decision. 
The evidence from a main dealer must be time stamped to show when the damage 
to the sensor likely happened. 
Upon receipt of evidence from a main dealer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
must reassess Mr Ms claim in line with the terms and conditions of his car insurance 
policy. 
If the cause of damage is found to be accident related Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited must reimburse Mr M the cost of the taking his car to a main dealer. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman