DRN-3289248
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Logbook Money Limited (LML) was irresponsible to have 
agreed a loan for him.
What happened
LML provided Mr G with a loan of £1,500 on 30 May 2020. The total amount of 
£4,200.30, including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of 
£53.85.
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr G 
provided LML with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr G didnt make his loan 
repayments LML could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
It seems from the statement of account that Mr G missed payments on a couple of 
occasions but made a double payment to catch up the following week. I understand Mr 
G settled his loan after six months in November 2020, and so paid just less than 
£2,400 in total.
Mr G said that LML was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him. He says he was 
spending large sums on gambling and had missed payments on a priority debt. Mr G says 
that had LML carried out sufficient checks it would have understood this and declined to 
lend to him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded LML had lent irresponsibly. 
LML didnt agree with this recommendation. It said it performed adequate checks and it 
found the loan to be affordable for Mr G. It says the loan was for consolidation purposes 
and would effectively reduce the amounts being paid out by Mr G each month. LML also 
says that Mr G was engaging in a form of trading by using cryptocurrency. It says it would 
not consider trading on the stock market as a factor when lending and cryptocurrency 
must be considered in the same way.
LML asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. I issued a 
provisional decision on 9 November 2020 explaining why I planned to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. Mr G agreed with my provisional decision but LML did not and provided further 
comments for me to consider. I have reviewed everything again and this is my final 
decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the points LML made in response to my provisional decision. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for LML but I remain of the view that Mr Gs 
complaint should be upheld because Ive concluded that it was irresponsible when it 
agreed to lend to him. Ill set out my reasoning and conclusions again, with reference to 
my provisional decision and the points LML made in response. 
As before, Ill begin with the regulations. LML will be aware of the relevant regulations and 
how we consider irresponsible lending complaints so I wont go into detail on these points. 
I will summarise by saying that LML needed to check that Mr G could afford to meet his 
repayments without difficulty before agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to 
check he could make his repayments out of his usual income without having to borrow to 
meet them, while meeting his existing obligations and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse impact on his financial situation. The assessment needed to take into 
account the nature of the credit and Mr Gs circumstances, and LML needed to have 
proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of affordability risk.
With this in mind, my main consideration is whether or not LML treated Mr G fairly when it 
agreed to lend to him. Ive thought about whether LML completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing his application to satisfy itself that he would be able 
to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences. Ive also thought 
about the information it knew, and what it ought reasonably to have known.
Ive reviewed the information LML relied on in making its lending decision. This included 
what Mr G said about his finances - he gave his net monthly income as £2,250 and his 
monthly expenditure as £1,902, which would seem to leave enough disposable income to 
meet the loan payments of approximately £230 a month. LML provided several call 
recordings which Ive listened to. Mr G said he wished to use this loan to consolidate 
some recent expensive borrowing. He mentioned three loans which amounted to about 
£560 in repayments each month, though one had just a single payment left. He couldnt 
remember the total amount he needed to repay but he said hed borrowed £1,000 for one 
and £300 for another.
LML also relied on an analysis of Mr Gs bank transactions from the previous three 
months. It provided a copy of this analysis in a report, which confirmed Mr Gs income and 
some of his expenses. The report calculated Mr Gs standard disposable monthly income 
as a minimum of £439 in March 2019 to over £1,000 in May. This wasnt quite consistent 
with what Mr G had told LML but the calculated disposable income didnt of itself raise the 
concern for LML that the loan would be unaffordable.
The report showed that Mr G had recently taken out several short term and high cost loans, 
including £1,800 across three loans just two weeks prior. It showed a personal loan (retail 
finance) and four credit cards. It also showed that Mr G had payments for priority debts 
returned on several occasions, for example for his car insurance and a utility bill.
In addition, the report showed that Mr G had high volumes of transfers to and from his 
account, aside from obvious living costs. The money coming in was via bank transfers, 
online payments or occasional cash deposits. The money going out was usually to a 
cryptocurrency exchange platform. These transfers reached several thousand pounds a 
month. Mr G says that the bank transfers were from his wifes account which he had access 
to, and the online deposits were withdrawals from his cryptocurrency account related to 
gambling. Hes provided screenshots of his cryptocurrency account from May and June 2020 
which show that he was spending the currency on an online gambling site.
The full transactional analysis contained in the report (which included the transfers) showed 
that Mr G wouldnt have had enough disposable income in the previous three months to 
meet the loan repayments with more money going out, on average, than coming in.I said in my provisional decision that I wasnt sure that Mr G would have repaid less overall 
using this loan to consolidate his short term loans. But, leaving that aside, I thought it would 
have been a reasonable response from LML to have found out what these existing loan 
balances were or what settlement figures Mr G had been offered. Mr G had originally applied 
for £3,000 which LML declined to lend before offering £1,500. Mr G hadnt been able to say 
how much he needed to repay to settle these loans but, given the amounts he borrowed 
(which LMLs account analysis confirmed), its likely hed need to repay more than what LML 
was offering to lend to him.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs credit file dated May 2020. This showed that the total he needed 
to repay for one of his existing loans was over £4,000. Mr G may have been able to repay 
some of his smaller loans, but I thought he was likely to continue to make his repayments for 
this one at least. Furthermore LML hadnt taken steps to check that Mr G would actually use 
the funds to clear some of his existing debt  indeed I could see that he continued to make 
payments to this large existing loan in the following months.
Given Mr G said he was borrowing for consolidation purposes and that LML could see 
payments to several credit cards, I also thought it would also have been reasonable for it to 
have enquired about his overall levels of debt. The report LML shared with us doesnt show 
how much Mr G had outstanding on revolving credit. His credit file showed that he owed 
almost £11,000 on credit and store cards. It didnt seem to me that Mr G was making more 
than the minimum repayments to these each month and this, alongside his missed priority 
payments, suggested that he was struggling to meet his existing commitments and wasnt 
making inroads into his debts. I provisionally concluded that  further credit was likely  to add 
to Mr Gs level of indebtedness and LML could have confirmed this through further checks.It 
wasnt likely to agree the loan for him, armed with this knowledge, and so I provisionally 
found it had been irresponsible when it did so. 
In response to my provisional decision LML said Mr G had stated that he wished to 
consolidate his debts and it was reasonable of it to take his statement of intentions in good 
faith. There was evidence that Mr G was paying his debts down (in other words meeting his 
payments on his short term loans) and, had he used the funds as hed said he would, this 
loan would have put him in a better position. LML also said it was right and responsible to 
have reduced the loan amount from the requested £3,000 to £1,500, and that Mr G 
understood the loan terms and wasnt naive to the world of credit.
Im afraid I cant conclude that using one expensive loan to consolidate others would put 
Mr G in a better position as he might well have paid more interest overall. It may not have 
reduced the amount he was spending on repaying debt each month as he needed to 
continue paying for some of his existing debts. LML may feel it was up to Mr G to decide 
whether or not consolidation was the right use of the loan, but this doesnt negate its 
responsibility to check that it wasnt simply increasing his indebtedness by providing it. I felt 
this was more likely, given how Mr G was managing his existing debts, and I remain of this 
view.  
Turning to Mr Gs spending on cryptocurrency. Mr G said that he used the cryptocurrency for 
gambling and hes provided evidence of this. LML said, in response to our initial 
investigation, that purchasing cryptocurrency wasnt automatically a sign of gambling. Mr G 
could have been trading in cryptocurrency, and trading wasnt an activity which would cause 
it concern.
In my provisional decision, I agreed with LML in that purchasing cryptocurrency was not 
necessarily indicative of gambling. I also agreed that what Mr G chose to spend his 
cryptocurrency on was not necessarily something it should take into consideration when 
making its lending decision. However, I found that Mr G was regularly spending large sums of money buying cryptocurrency to the extent that he was borrowing expensive credit, was 
not managing to meet some of his priority commitments or make inroads into his existing 
debts, and he was spending more than he had coming in. LMLs report showed that the 
short term loans Mr G had taken out weeks before were consumed by his overdraft and his 
spending on cryptocurrency.
Id said that I didnt know whether or not Mr G had access to funds other than his income to 
spend on purchasing cryptocurrency, or anything else for that matter. Nevertheless, I 
thought LML had enough information to see that this spending pattern was impacting 
adversely on Mr Gs finances, had been for some time, and was likely to continue to do so. 
CONC 5.2A.25G states that indicators of a high level of affordability risk include 
circumstances where the total value of a customers outstanding debts is high relative to 
their income or where there is a high likelihood that the customer will not make repayments 
by their due dates, both of which I thought were demonstrably present here. I provisionally 
concluded that LML was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Mr G under these 
circumstances. 
LML said in response to my provisional conclusions that it would have been reasonable to 
have discussed the transactions on Mr Gs statements to have better understood his 
finances, given their frequency and volume. It said that these transactions may have been 
overlooked in its underwriting but too much time had passed to reliably tell whether they 
were missed or whether an explanation had been sought and accepted. 
LML also said that, while mistakes had been made, it had genuinely tried to make sure the 
loan would be affordable for Mr G. It said that Mr G met his repayment for six months (with 
two exceptions) and it was highly unlikely that he would have borrowed lump sums from 
elsewhere to sustain the weekly repayments. LML said that Mr G had not provided any 
evidence that this loan was detrimental to his finances. It says it incurred costs to arrange 
the loan alongside associated business costs and that Mr G spent the funds for a purpose it 
didnt agree to. 
I acknowledge LMLs strength of feeling on this point. However, as it has now agreed, it 
made a mistake by not investigating or in how it considered Mr Gs frequent and significant 
spending on cryptocurrency. As Id explained in my provisional decision, I didnt think 
understanding more about Mr Gs circumstances would have provided any reassurance to 
LML that this loan would help him reduce his outgoings to the extent that it would be 
affordable for him and would not cause him further harm. I think further checks would likely 
have confirmed that Mr G was having difficulty managing his existing debts and this, 
combined with his spending patterns, should have led LML to conclude that further credit 
would to add to Mr Gs indebtedness and cause him financial difficulty.
Id noted in my provisional decision that Mr G repaid the loan early, with a lump sum. I said it 
doesnt necessarily follow that Mr G managed to do so without borrowing from elsewhere or 
going without. Mr G says the money came from his wifes account and Ive seen this 
transaction on his bank statements. I havent seen evidence that Mr G had other sources of 
income or had surplus monthly income to cover such a lump payment. I think Mr G has lost 
out in that he paid interest and charges to borrow this money and potentially had his credit 
file adversely impacted. I am satisfied that, on balance, agreeing this loan was detrimental to 
Mr Gs finances. 
In summary, I have concluded that LML was irresponsible to lend on this occasion. Ive set 
out below what LML needs to do to put things right for Mr G.Putting things right
I think its fair that Mr G repays the capital he borrowed as hes had the use of this. 
However, I dont think he should be liable for any interest or charges on this amount or 
have his credit record adversely impacted.
In order to put things right for Mr G, LML needs to:
a) Refund to Mr G all payments he made above the original amount of £1,500 
he borrowed; 
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Gs credit file; and
d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Gs car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LML to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Gs complaint about Logbook Money 
Limited and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman