DRN-4224132
The complaint
Miss G complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt dealt with her claim of money missing from 
her accounts and has provided poor service.
What happened
Miss G says that she deposited a cheque following a court settlement in 2017 of some 
£165,000 and that a lower amount was credited. She says that money of over £44,000 was 
taken from her account on 9 November 2022 and there was a further £12,000 missing on 21 
November 2022. She thinks that Metro Bank has breached her confidentiality.
Metro Bank said it hadnt identified any error. It had seen that Miss G deposited just under 
£134,500 into her account in August 2017. There was no evidence that any higher amount 
had been credited or that money had gone missing. It accepted that on 8 November 2022 
£44,269 was wrongly credited to her account and removed the next day. This should have 
been £2 as this was cash that Miss G had put into a Magic Money machine and the receipt 
entry had been wrongly keyed by a cashier. There was no withdrawal shown for £12,000 
later in the month. It had made a note of the concerns Miss G had raised about her privacy 
when in the branch and said it would take this into account on future visits. It also noted that 
she had her safety deposit box key stolen and that she could deal with this in branch and 
that the manager had offered to go through all her accounts with. Metro Bank said it was 
aware that although Miss G hadnt complained to it about accessing fixed rate deposits she 
had raised this with this service. It commented that this could only be accessed if there was 
evidence of hardship, and she would need to provide this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She considered that Metro 
Bank had explained what happened and there was nothing to support that money had gone 
missing. Miss G had two fixed rate deposits  one expiring on 7 October 2023 and the other 
on 22 June 2025  and she would need to contact Metro Bank if this was causing her 
hardship.
Miss G didnt agree. She said that her money was in a stranglehold with the fixed deposits 
and would have to remain a client until 2025. She was unable to obtain any cheques to show 
her deposit in 2017. She has been forced to use the money in her ISA. Miss G said she 
wanted to be taken seriously and that she has lost trust in Metro Bank. She was unhappy 
with the way her account appeared to have been used a holding account in relation to the 
deposit error. She had been accused of making a false claim as a result of Metro Banks 
actions. One of the fixed bond accounts has by now matured and she wants this matter to be 
dealt with. Miss G said she hasnt been successful in switching from Metro Bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information Metro Bank has provided about what happened. And what 
Miss G has provided to this service and her testimony about what happened. 
Metro Bank has provided copies of her account statements and these support what it has 
said about the money in her account. I note the deposit of just under £134,500 in August 
2017 and I dont have evidence to support that being incorrect or there being other money 
that wasnt then credited. I also cant see that £12,000 was withdrawn or transferred on 21 
November 2022 or in any days around that period.
Metro Bank did make a mistake with the credit to her account on 8 November 2022. This 
should have been £2 from a receipt for cash deposited into a money counting machine. It is 
clear to me that the error came from the receipt number 44269 being wrongly input as the 
amount in pounds by the cashier. That higher amount of money was never paid in by Miss G 
or anyone else and the error came to light in the branch reconciliation. I can see Metro Bank 
noted it tried to call Miss G about this but was unsuccessful and she visited the branch. It 
has apologised for the error.
Miss G hasnt complained directly to Metro Bank about accessing her fixed deposits. It has 
though explained the position and that she would need to provide evidence of severe 
hardship to do so before the terms end. If Miss G thinks she since has done that and still 
cant access all her money then she would be able to raise a complaint. I note that she has 
had a number of fixed deposits in the past and she hadnt complained that she didnt know 
about the terms involved here. It does seem as she says that one fixed deposit she made on 
7 April 2022 has now matured. 
I cant know exactly what was said in branch to Miss G and whether someone was able to 
overhear that. I dont have evidence to support that Metro Bank breached her confidentiality 
or made any allegations. But now that it is aware of her concerns about privacy it has made 
a specific customer note to address this when she visits. And as Metro Bank has set out the 
branch manager is able to go through the account statements with Miss G and help her deal 
with the theft of her safety deposit box key.
I know that Miss G will be unhappy with my findings as she has lost trust in Metro Bank and 
is convinced money has gone missing. But Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman