DRN-3112461
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) made errors on his student and 
graduate accounts.
 
What happened
 Mr H started his university degree in 2016 on a four-year course. In 2019, he was told by 
Santander that his account was changing from a student to a graduate account (for a further 
two years). In 2020, he was told his account was changing from a graduate account to an 
everyday account. In January 2021, Santander told him his graduate account offer was to 
end in July 2021. In January 2021, he was declined for a graduate overdraft of £2000, and 
£1500 was agreed.
Mr H complained. He said that hed visited three branches in August 2018, 2019 and 
September 2020  to provide the necessary documents and to try to resolve his situation. 
But  errors continued each time. Then, in January 2021, he was told by Santander that 
theyd approved the overdraft of £2000, but it was then withdrawn and his original one of 
£1500 was agreed instead. And  Santander did a credit search for the overdraft of £2000. 
This meant his credit score had gone down, and he was now finding it difficult to get credit or 
change banks.
Santander apologised. They shouldve put Mr Hs graduate account in place up until July 
2022, but due to an error it was due to expire in July 2021. They refunded the interest hed 
paid on the overdraft  as it was an interest-free offer. On Mr Hs request for an overdraft of 
£2000, Santander said theyd made an error  Mr H had been misinformed by the member 
of staff- he didnt qualify for £2000 and had to stay with his current overdraft of £1500. 
Santander offered Mr H compensation of £150 for the poor service hed received.
Mr H didnt accept Santanders offer and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said 
that Santander had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly. Theyd changed his graduate account 
to expire in July 2022, and refunded the interest paid of £23.87. On the impact of the 
declined overdraft of £2000, Mr H couldnt evidence how hed been disadvantaged by this 
although he said he had several items he needed to buy for his flat, and now couldnt. Our 
investigator couldnt see a credit search done by Santander on Mr Hs credit report  so 
there couldnt have been any impact on his credit rating as a result.
Mr H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a slightly different view to our investigator here. I think that the number of mistakes 
made by Santander were significant  when viewed together and over time - and caused Mr 
H a lot of inconvenience and on that basis, Im recommending a higher amount of 
compensation. This service considers that an award of up to £300 might be suitable where 
there have been repeated small errors (or a larger single mistake), requiring a reasonable 
effort to sort out. And I think that  given the number of errors that occurred on Mr Hs 
accounts, a higher award of this amount is appropriate.
On the first complaint about the student and graduate accounts. In Mr Hs complaint he said 
his original student account shouldve run from 2016 to 2020, and he visited a Santander 
branch in August 2018 to show his course details. But  in 2019, he was told his student 
account was expiring and had to visit another branch to show the course details again. But  
the account was then converted to a graduate account until 2021  when it shouldve been 
through to 2022.
This was then compounded by the subsequent problems when the account was converted to 
an everyday account and he was charged interest (the student and graduate accounts were 
interest  free). Ive seen that Mr H visited three branches during this time to show 
Santander the right documents. Santander have admitted there were errors made. And the 
graduate account was then put in place through to 2022  as it shouldve been all along. So 
 Mr Hs student account was set up wrongly, as was the later graduate account. Mr H has 
also said he called Santander about ten times to try to resolve matters. So, Santander had 
several chances to put things right, but didnt. And its on that basis that Im recommending a 
higher award of compensation.
Turning to Mr Hs request for a graduate overdraft of £2000 in January 2021. Ive looked at 
the key facts of Santanders graduate offer. It says, This current account comes with an 
interest-free and fee-free Arranged Overdraft (Limit applies)  and goes onto say that the 
overdraft can be Up to £2000. So  Santander had to agree the amount - and they were 
within their rights to decline to give Mr H an overdraft of £2000 if they wished. But  
Santander have admitted they were wrong to tell Mr H that hed been approved for an 
overdraft of £2000  which they then withdrew and said he had to remain with his current 
limit of £1500. I agree that this must have been frustrating for Mr H  but he hasnt been able 
to show us how he was disadvantaged by this  other than of course having the comfort of it 
should he need it. But  while the impact was minimal, or cant be quantified, this was 
another mistake by Santander  which came on top of the previous problems with Mr Hs 
student and graduate accounts.
Mr H says his credit rating had gone down because Santander did a credit search for the 
limit approval. But  Mr Hs credit report doesnt show such a search  it just records that he 
has an account with Santander with a limit of £1500. So  its unlikely to have affected his 
score. I have observed though  there are several other searches done by other lenders  
and these may have influenced Mr Hs credit rating. So  I dont think this is something we 
can consider when deciding the outcome of Mr Hs complaint.
And so  given the compound effects of what Mr H experienced, I consider a higher amount 
of compensation is warranted  and this should be £300.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr H didnt respond. Santander accepted the findings, but asked for clarification whether the 
£300 compensation included the £150 already offered to, and rejected by Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As Mr H didnt respond, and Santander accepted the findings in the provisional decision, I 
wont be departing from it and for the reasons set out in it. I confirm that the compensation of 
£300 is to include the offered £150  so a total of £300 to be paid.
My final decision I uphold this complaint. And Santander UK Plc must:
Pay £300 to Mr H for distress and inconvenience. This to include the £150 already 
offered to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman