DRN-3654025
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. declined a claim on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs P took out an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by
Mapfre. They were due to travel abroad in July 2020 with their children. Their flights were
cancelled due to the ongoing impact of Covid-19 on international travel. They were unable to
use the accommodation theyd booked.
Mr and Mrs P say they contacted Mapfre and were told they needed to cancel the
accommodation in order to claim. Having spent some time on the phone to their travel
provider they were offered an amendment to their booking or the option to cancel. Mr and
Mrs P cancelled the booking and claimed for the cost of their accommodation on their travel
insurance policy.
Mapfre declined the claim on the basis Mr and Mrs P had been offered a credit note. Mr and
Mrs P complained but Mapfre maintained their decision to decline the claim, on the basis
that theyd been offered an amendment to the holiday. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained
to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Mapfre had fairly declined the
claim. She didnt think there was cover under the policy and that the terms of the offer to
rebook the accommodation werent unreasonable. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked an
ombudsman to review the complaint. They said Mapfre told them to cancel. Our investigator
asked Mapfre to provide copies of the calls with Mrs P but it hasnt done so.
In August 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said that I was intending to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint. I said: 
Im intending to uphold this complaint because:
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to cover the claim in the unique
circumstances of this particular case.
The policy covers cancellation, missed departure and delayed departure. Mrs P
contacted Mapfre to seek guidance about what to do when she learned that her flight
was cancelled. She says she was told that shed need to cancel the accommodation
in order to make a claim. Her testimony on this point has been credible, plausible
and persuasive. Ive asked Mapfre to provide a copy of the call, but it hasnt. So, I
think Mrs Ps recollection of events is what is most likely to have happened.
Mrs P was left with the impression that she had to cancel her holiday in order to
claim. So, when she was offered an amendment or the option to cancel, she chose
to cancel. I think that was reasonable in view of the information shed been given by
Mapfre.
Mrs P claimed on the policy and was told, in summary, that she shouldnt have
cancelled as she was offered an amendment by the accommodation provider. Based
on the evidence I currently have; this wasnt made clear to Mrs P during the phone
call she had with Mapfre. If it had been made clearer, shed have been able to make
a more informed decision when the accommodation provider offered her an
amendment to the booking.
Ive also taken into account what Mrs P has said about her reasons for rejecting the
amendment at that time. Shes explained her son has a medical condition which was
impacted heavily by the lockdowns imposed in response to Covid-19. So, she feels
its unlikely theyd be able to go abroad any time soon. And shes explained that, due
to the nature of both her and Mr Ps jobs, theyve been impacted financially by the
pandemic. So, all of these were reasons why she was worried about amending the
booking rather than cancelling it.
Based on the evidence I have and taking into account the specific circumstances of
this case I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to step outside the policy
terms and conditions and treat the claim as if its covered by the cancellation section.
Thats because I think Mrs P made her decision to cancel based on the information
given to her in the call with Mapfre.
Mr and Mrs P ought to be aware that Ive made my provisional decision based on the
limited information available to me. If Mapfre provides further information this may
have an impact upon the outcome of this complaint.
Mapfre and Mr and Mrs P accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mapfre and Mr and Mrs P accepted my findings theres no reason for me to reach a 
different outcome. Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for the reasons outlined above 
and in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I direct Mapfre to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs Ps claim, subject to
the relevant policy limits. Mapfre is also entitled to deduct any excess which might be
applicable.
They should also pay Mr and Mrs P 8% simple interest per year from the date that the claim
was declined to the date that the claim is settled.
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and
Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman