DRN-3233646
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until 2019, Mrs and Mr W held with The 
Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia. Mrs and Mr W are unhappy with their 
treatment by Britannia after the mortgage term ended, which eventually led to their 
property being repossessed and sold.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 15 December 2021, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from 
the provisional decision.
Mrs and Mr W took the mortgage out in 2002; it was interest-only, taken over a fifteen-year 
term and therefore repayable in 2017. Mrs and Mr W didnt repay the mortgage when it fell 
due, and after a protracted period of dialogue and complaints about unfair treatment of a 
couple in poor health, Britannia applied to the courts for possession in 2019. A possession 
order was granted in March 2019, upheld on appeal and then enforced in July 2019. Mrs and 
Mr W left the property and Britannia sold it in November 2019. There was a substantial 
surplus following the sale, but a dispute then followed over the terms for its release to 
Mrs and Mr W.
Mrs and Mr W complained to us in January 2020. Our investigator explained hed only be 
able to consider part of the complaint. The reason for this was that Mrs and Mr W had 
complained about various issues over time, and received several final responses. Each final 
response had given Mrs and Mr W six months in which to refer their complaint to us, and 
theyd only done so in respect of the two most recent final responses; these were dated 
17 October 2019 and 17 January 2020 respectively.
On the parts of the complaint that we could consider, the investigator wasnt persuaded 
Britannia had treated Mrs and Mr W unfairly. Mrs and Mr W haves asked for an ombudsman 
to review the case in its entirety, including the time restriction on our remit to consider the 
complaint. 
By way of a jurisdiction decision issued on 1 December 2021, I set out the reasons why our 
remit to consider this complaint was confined to the matters that were covered in Britannias 
final responses dated 17 October 2019 and 17 January 2020. Both parties were given a 
further two weeks to make any final comments on the issue before I dealt with the merits. 
That time has now passed.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. I also 
have to ensure I dont include any information that might identify Mrs and Mr W when my 
decision is published.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Britannia received a data subject access request (DSAR) from Mrs and Mr W on 5 February 
2019, and replied to it on 21 February 2019. In my view, thats a reasonable response time 
and well within the time frame required under the General data Protection Regulation. If 
Mr and Mr W are unhappy with the content of what they received (i.e. if they think material to 
which they were entitled was withheld) thats a matter better dealt with by the Information 
Commissioners Office rather than this service.
Looking at everything that has been provided by both parties, Im not persuaded there was 
any shortcoming in the information Britannia provided to Mrs and Mr W about the possession 
proceedings, whether thats before or after the possession order was granted. Mrs and Mr W 
were clearly aware of the proceedings; the court documents indicate at least one of them 
was present at the original hearing at which the order was granted, and at the appeal 
hearing where the order was upheld. I cant consider if the information presented at the 
hearings themselves was inaccurate or incomplete, or if the court reached an unfair decision 
when it granted the possession order and then upheld it on appeal. Only the court itself can 
do that.
Once the possession order had been granted and enforced, Britannia began the process of 
selling the mortgaged property. Thats not a process that involves the borrowers; its 
something for a lender to conduct in its own right, generally by engaging third parties 
(solicitors, estate agents, and asset managers for example) to act as its agents. All Id then 
expect a lender to do is to notify the borrowers once a sale has completed, and Britannia 
clearly did that here.
Mrs and Mr W say Britannia mis-handled the sale and failed to achieve a fair price for their 
former property. I appreciate their strength of feeling, but the evidence doesnt support their 
claim. Britannia took the steps Id expect it to; that is:
establish independent professional opinions on the propertys likely market value;
exercise its judgement on what needed doing to the property to maximise its 
marketability; and 
sell it for the best price achievable within a reasonable amount of time, mindful that 
interest continues to accrue on the outstanding debt until a sale has completed.
The initial valuation was given as £180,000, Britannias asset manager spent around £4,000 
clearing and cleaning the property to make it presentable, and it sold for £225,000. In my 
view, Britannia met its duty to Mrs and Mr W in the way it prepared and then marketed the 
property, and in the eventual selling price it achieved.
The costs of the sale were added to the mortgage debt; as were, over the years, various 
fees and charges Britannia incurred pursuing Mrs and Mr W for the overdue debt. Thats 
normal and allowed for in the underlying mortgage contract, but there is still the question of fairness. Having looked at the account, and considered the work undertaken by Britannias 
aforementioned agents, I dont consider any of the fees and charges to Mrs and Mr Ws 
mortgage debt to have been unnecessary or excessively high for the work done.
Mrs and Mr W say they were denied access to the property to recover personal possessions, 
which were then removed and disposed of by Britannias asset managers. Again, the 
available evidence doesnt point to this being so. Britannia has supplied us with a consent 
form Mr W signed on 29 July 2019 to confirm it could dispose of the house contents.
Once the property had been sold, and the sale proceeds received by Britannias solicitors, 
the first thing that happened was that the mortgage balance was repaid in full. Mrs and Mr W 
argue Britannia had no right to that money, but Im afraid theyve misdirected themselves 
there. The starting point in a complaint such as this is that Mrs and Mr W had borrowed 
money from Britannia and then failed to repay it when it fell due. Britannia had a right to be 
repaid money it had lent in good faith. Thats the very crux of the matter, and is of course, 
the fundamental reason why the court granted a possession order in the first place.
Mrs and Mr W have raised the issue of a mortgage indemnity guarantee that was a part of 
the original mortgage contract, and the cost of which they had to meet at the outset. Thats 
quite normal; its a mechanism that lenders often use when theyre being asked to lend more 
than a certain percentage of a propertys value (typically 75% but sometimes a different 
threshold). The indemnity affords a lender an extra layer of protection in the event a property 
is taken into possession and the sold for less than the amount owed on the mortgage, 
leaving a shortfall debt. 
Although on face value, the lender benefits from the indemnity, the borrower does too 
because it means they can borrow more than they could if the indemnity didnt exist. Thats 
why borrowers pay for it. In Mrs and Mr Ws case, the existence of the indemnity has no 
bearing on the events following the possession of their property; thats because there was a 
surplus on sale not a shortfall. And that brings me to one last point; the surplus and what 
happened to it after the mortgage and related costs had been repaid.
Mrs and Mr W were very unhappy that the proceeds werent immediately released to them; 
they say the solicitors acting for Britannia in the sale (a business Ill call O) had no right to 
hold onto the money. Britannia said it was a matter for them to take up with O directly; 
meanwhile our investigator said it was outside our remit to consider Os actions. Both are 
wrong; O might be a separate business over which the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
no direct jurisdiction, but here it was acting as Britannias agent. So my remit does allow me 
to consider whether O acted reasonably or otherwise over the release of the surplus funds to 
Mrs and Mr W. 
That said, when I consider the information O asked Mrs and Mr W to provide before it was 
prepared to release the funds, Im satisfied it acted reasonably and appropriately, and didnt 
single Mrs and Mr W out for unfair treatment. The verification requirements O asked 
Mrs and Mr W to meet are a matter of law and regulation and they apply to all businesses 
involved in the movement of money.
I gave the parties until 29 December 2021 to respond to the provisional decision if they 
wished to. Neither had made any substantive comment or challenged my provisional 
findings.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman