DRN-3962095
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Moneybarn No 1 Limited (Moneybarn) handled her 
Conditional Sale Agreement (CSA). She would like the interest charged, and  a recovery 
charge for her car refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I do appreciate the difficult personal circumstances that Miss B has shared with us. 
She has raised a number of issues with her CSA and I think it would be helpful if I 
look at these in turn.
In terms of the interest rate Moneybarn charged I have seen the agreement Miss B 
signed. The interest rate is clearly stated on the agreement so I think Miss B would 
have been aware of that when she took out the agreement. The CCJ she says she 
was unaware of on her credit file may well have affected her credit score as 
businesses reasonably use credit data when offering loans. But if Miss B  wasnt 
happy with the interest rate she could have looked for finance elsewhere. I cant see 
that Moneybarn was at fault here.
I appreciate Miss B says she had problems contacting Moneybarn when her income 
dropped. It is very frustrating to have long wait times on phone calls. But looking at 
the contact from Moneybarn I can see that from June 2021 through to September 
2021 when Miss B did manage to make contact via the online portal Moneybarn sent 
emails, texts, and letters to Miss B so I think she would have been aware of other 
ways to contact Moneybarn.
In terms of Miss Bs financial situation, we do expect businesses to respond 
positively  and sympathetically when consumers have financial problems. As I 
understand it Miss Bs account went into arrears in June 2021. From the contact 
notes it seems Moneybarn attempted to contact Miss B by various means at least ten 
times about her account prior to her online portal contact in September 2021. In its 
correspondence Moneybarn offered various ways of helping, for example a possible 
payment holiday, support to get back on track with her account, and details of 
organisations Miss B could contact for help. These are appropriate steps I would 
have expected Moneybarn to take.
Miss Bs main issue seems to be that she says Moneybarn only offered her the 
option to clear the finance or return the car, it didnt offer a repayment plan. And she  
doesnt agree that she didnt have the income to meet a repayment plan. When Miss 
B contacted Moneybarn via its online portal she said her situation had changed , she 
was looking for a new job and could only make a partial payment that month. 
Although in response Moneybarn emailed to say the full arrears of £554 needed to 
be paid off before 12 October 2021, it also included a link for an income and 
expenditure plan in the email to see if a repayment plan was suitable. I think this  was 
responsible as we would expect Moneybarn  to ensure that any payment plans are 
affordable. So, I think Moneybarn was prepared to consider a repayment plan, if 
suitable.
I cant see any evidence to show that Miss B either told Moneybarn her financial  
situation had improved from September 2021, and she could now meet a repayment 
plan. Or that she completed and returned an income and expenditure plan to confirm 
this. I think it would have been irresponsible of Moneybarn to have agreed a 
repayment plan without having  up to date details of Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. So , as I cant see evidence Miss B provided the appropriate information 
for Moneybarn to consider a repayment plan I dont think it was  wrong not to offer 
one. 
Although Moneybarn went ahead and repossessed the car , which it was entitled to 
under the agreement Miss B signed, it did offer Miss B a seven-day breathing space 
on 8 November 2021 when Miss B made contact. It put Miss Bs account on hold and 
halted repossession proceedings. I think this was a reasonable course of action. But 
as it had no further contact from Miss B by 17 November 2021 it began repossession 
proceedings. In the absence of any contact at that point from Miss B I dont think that 
was unreasonable.
Although we expect businesses to respond positively and sympathetically when 
consumers have financial problems that doesnt automatically mean we expect them 
to write off interest on loans as Miss B would like. I think Moneybarn supported Miss 
B in the ways I would expect. It attempted regular contact with her in several different 
ways offering options to support her. In the absence of any income and expenditure 
information from Miss B  I dont think it was unreasonable in not agreeing a 
repayment plan or in repossessing the car when Miss B didnt contact Moneybarn 
after  the seven-day breathing space given. On this basis I cant reasonably ask 
Moneybarn to refund the interest on Miss Bs agreement as she would like or refund 
the collection fee for which she is liable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman