DRN-3702673
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt raise his chargeback claim after he 
returned unwanted goods to the supplier. 
What happened
Mr O ordered two computers from a supplier in October 2021 and paid for these using his 
Starling Mastercard debit card. Mr O was then able to secure the same equipment through 
his university and so he returned the items he had purchased using the suppliers return 
label. Unfortunately, the items were lost in transit. Mr O says he wasnt able to claim for the 
goods from the postal provider as he had used a supplier return label and so it was up to the 
supplier to make the claim. He contacted the supplier several times and says he was told he 
would receive the refund, but this didnt happen. Mr O then contacted Starling Bank to raise 
a dispute about the payment. Mr O says he provided documents to support his case, but 
Starling Bank refused to raise his claim. 
Starling Bank issued a final response letter in February 2022. It noted the contact that had 
been made and said that Mr O hadnt provided sufficient evidence for his chargeback claim 
to be raised. It said it needed Mr O to provide evidence that the goods had been returned 
and received by the supplier and that the supplier had said a refund would be provided. Mr O 
had explained the goods had been lost in transit and it noted that further evidence had been 
provided but said there still wasnt sufficient evidence for a claim to be raised.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said that Mr O had provided the evidence 
required for a chargeback claim to be raised. Because of this she thought Starling Bank 
hadnt acted fairly by not raising the chargeback claim and recommended that Starling Bank 
refund Mr O the cost of the returned items and pay him £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. 
Starling Bank didnt accept that Mr O had met the requirement for a chargeback claim to be 
raised. It said the tracking information provided didnt show the final destination for the 
supplier and so it couldnt say the goods had been received by the supplier. It said that Mr O 
hadnt followed the required returns policy as he had packaged the two items in the same 
box. It also said that when he raised his dispute, he didnt provide the certificate of posting, 
or prepaid labels. Starling Bank didnt accept that Mr O had met the chargeback scheme 
providers requirement that supporting documents must show how each chargeback 
condition was met.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants under the relevant card scheme. In this case Mr O acquired the items using 
his Mastercard debit card therefore I have considered the Mastercard chargeback scheme 
rules. 
Mr O raised his dispute with Starling Bank saying his refund hadnt been received. This falls 
under the chargeback reason of Credit not being processed. Starling Bank said that there 
wasnt sufficient evidence for a chargeback claim to be raised. But in this case, I think there 
was. I say this because when Mr O submitted his claim, he provided evidence from the 
supplier saying that the package was in transit and further emails saying his refund was 
being processed. Mr O provided a tracking number and the reasons for his claim. Starling 
Bank said that it needed proof the items had been received by the supplier. However, the 
scheme rules do not require this. 
The scheme rules chargeback conditions include:
The merchant has not responded to the return or the cancellation of goods or services.
In this case, Mr O said in his claim form that he had been told he would receive a refund, 
and this hadnt been received. He raised his dispute request within the 120-day timeframe 
and provided copies of emails showing him chasing the refund. I note Starling Banks 
comment that it didnt receive the full email chain but I think the evidence provided was 
sufficient to show that Mr O had been told he would receive a refund and that this hadnt 
happened and the supplier was no longer responding. Because of this I think the chargeback 
condition should have been considered as met.
Supporting document can be needed for a claim to be raised. The schemes rules say 
evidence can be one of the following:
A cardholder letter, email, message, or Dispute Resolution FormCardholder 
Dispute Chargeback (Form 1221) describing the cardholders complaint in sufficient 
detail to enable all parties to understand the dispute. This means that the cardholder 
email, letter, message or completed Dispute Resolution FormCardholder Dispute 
Chargeback (Form 1221) must document how each Chargeback Conditions was 
met.
Merchant documentation to support a credit is due to the cardholder.
Proof of an improperly disclosed in-store credit and cardholder explanation.
Mr O completed a chargeback form which explained the details of his dispute. He also 
provided evidence from the supplier saying that the goods were in transit and separately that 
a refund request had been raised. The supporting evidence doesnt require the cardholder to 
prove the items have been received back by the supplier. Based on the information Mr O 
provided I think that Startling Bank should have raised the chargeback claim.
Through this investigation further evidence has been provided and I think had Starling Bank 
requested specific items from Mr O these would have been provided directly. Mr O has 
provided proof that he returned the items using the suppliers return labels. I note the 
comments about the items being returned in the same box rather than in separate boxes but 
I do not think this is enough to say that Mr O didnt take reasonable actions to return the 
items or that his claim shouldnt have been raised. 
As I think Starling Bank should have raised the chargeback claim, I have to consider what I 
think the outcome would have been had this happened. Unfortunately, due to the passage of 
time, a claim can no longer be raised under the chargeback scheme and so I have 
considered whether I think the claim would have been successful had it been raised in time. 
In this case, Mr O has provided evidence of the goods being returned. He has also provided 
evidence that the supplier identified the goods as being in transit and that a refund request 
had been made. I appreciate that the supplier hasnt confirmed receipt of the goods and it 
appears these were lost in transit. Mr O has tried to raise a claim with the postage provider 
but hasnt been able to due to his use of the supplier return label. Therefore in this case I 
think Mr O has taken the steps required to try to resolve his claim with the supplier and also 
through other means and he has also provided enough evidence to support his claim that 
the items were returned and refund was due. Because of this I think that had his chargeback 
claim been raised at the time Mr O contacted Starling Bank about his dispute, it would have 
had a good chance of success. Because of this I uphold Mr Os complaint.
Because Starling Bank didnt raise Mr Os chargeback claim when I think it should have, 
Mr O has been without his refund for an extended period of time. This has caused him 
financial difficulties as well as the stress involved with dealing with this dispute. Therefore, I 
think that Starling Bank should pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused. 
Putting things right
Starling Bank Limited should:
Refund Mr O his transaction of £2,838 along with 8% simple interest from 11 January 
2022 till the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr O compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Starling Bank Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman