DRN-2117122
The complaint
Mr W complains The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited unfairly declined his income 
protection claim and added a further exclusion to his policy.
What happened
Mr W took out an income protection policy with Shepherds Friendly, via a broker, in June 
2019. 
Mr W made a claim relating to knee pain towards the end of 2019. And after assessing Mr 
Ws medical records, Shepherds Friendly said he hadnt disclosed relevant information about 
symptoms and conditions relating to his shoulder and legs. It said had it been made aware of 
these, it would have offered the policy with a further exclusion. And because of this, it 
declined the claim relating to Mr Ws left knee pain. 
Mr W complained. He said hed previously had issues with his right knee, but didnt see why 
this was relevant to his claim for pain in his left knee. And he said hed asked his broker if he 
should check his medical records when answering the application questions. Shepherds 
Friendly said it thought it had been correct to add an exclusion to the policy and to decline 
Mr Ws claim, due to the additional medical information which hadnt been disclosed relating 
to his shoulder and legs.
Unhappy with Shepherds Friendlys response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into the complaint and said she thought Mr W was required to 
disclose the additional medical information, and said she didnt think Shepherds Friendly had 
acted unfairly. 
Shepherds Friendly didnt make any further comments in response to the view. Mr W 
disagreed with the outcome, and asked for a final decision. And so the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Shepherds Friendly said Mr W failed to declare relevant medical information when he took 
out his policy via his broker. It said some conditions were declared, including sciatica, and an 
exclusion was applied to the policy in relation to this. But it said it wasnt told about a series 
of other symptoms and conditions relating to Mr Ws shoulder and legs, in the five years prior 
to him taking out the policy. And it hadnt been made aware Mr W had seen his GP with 
knee pain, a few months prior to taking out the policy. 
As Mr W took out his policy via a broker, Ive listened to the relevant calls where the broker 
asked Mr W medical questions. 
The broker asked Mr W if hed had any of a list of conditions, including any condition which 
had affected his mobility, to which Mr W said no. And the broker asked Mr W the following 
question about visits to his GP:
In the last say 10 years, have you gone to the doctors for anything more serious 
than a cough or cold and of course more serious than what youve already told me 
about?.
In response to this, Mr W told the broker that hed injured his shoulder and thigh tendon in 
the past, and had an operation for both of these. 
Mr Ws medical records reflect longstanding pain in his left quadricep tendon and a rupture 
to the right in 2016, as well as multiple references to knee pain over that year, including 
chronic pain  knees in December. There was a further mention of knee pain in 2017, and 
a GP visit in April 2019, shortly before the policy was taken out. In reference to this 
appointment the GP recorded Mr W had reported a sore and swollen right knee, and 
needing to wear a knee brace. 
And with regard to Mr Ws shoulder, his medical records showed several references to pain 
in this area across 2016. 
Ive considered the questions the broker asked, the answers Mr W gave, and the information 
the broker passed to Shepherds Friendly. And Ive compared these to the medical records. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr W needed to provide further information about his medical 
history relating to his legs. I think its reasonable to say that the problems Mr W had with his 
knees would most likely have affected his mobility, so I think he should have provided details 
of this in response to that question. And I think the question Mr W was asked about visits to 
his GP was clear, so Mr W was required to tell his broker about his appointment in relation to 
his knee pain in April 2019. Considering he took out the policy in June, I think he would have 
recalled such a recent appointment, and should have disclosed it when asked about visits to 
the GP in the past ten years. 
Im satisfied based on the call recordings, that Mr W told his broker about his past shoulder 
injury and an operation he had in this area. But looking at the form the broker completed and 
passed on to Shepherds Friendly, this information wasnt disclosed. Although I think Mr W 
adequately disclosed information about his shoulder injury, Shepherds Friendly didnt know 
about this, as the broker acting on Mr Ws behalf didnt pass this information on.
Because of this, Im persuaded Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation in relation to information about his knee pain. And a further misrepresentation was made, due to the information Mr W provided about his shoulder not 
being passed on by the broker acting on his behalf. 
Ive then gone on to consider whether or not this was a qualifying misrepresentation, by 
looking at what difference this made to the policy which was offered. 
Shepherds Friendly has provided underwriting evidence which shows, had the additional 
medical information about Mr Ws shoulder and legs been declared, it would have still 
offered him the policy. But it would have done so on different terms. It would have applied an 
exclusion to any claims relating to Mr Ws shoulder and legs. And because of this, Im 
satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Shepherds Friendly has treated this as a careless misrepresentation. And in these 
circumstances, the remedy available under CIDRA would be for it to add the relevant 
exclusion to Mr Ws policy, and assess the claim from that point. And as thats whats 
happened in this case, Im persuaded Shepherds Friendly has acted fairly. 
Mr W has questioned his claim relating to his left knee being declined, considering his GP 
appointment in April 2019 was for his right knee. Its up to each individual insurer to 
determine the level of risk its willing to take when issuing a policy. And based on the medical 
history Ive reviewed, there were references to symptoms relating to both knees, and both 
quadricep tendons. So I dont think it was unreasonable that Shepherds Friendly 
retrospectively applied an exclusion relating to both of Mr Ws legs.
Whilst Im not upholding this complaint, as Ive explained, I identified that Mr W provided 
information to his broker about his shoulder injury, and this was not received by Shepherds 
Friendly. This isnt something I can comment on further in this complaint, as the broker Mr W 
used is a different business. However, Im aware Mr W has brought a separate complaint to 
this service about his broker. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman