DRN-4097851
The complaint
Mr B says Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) failed to respond adequately to 
questions about his personal pension. He says this meant hes been unable to make 
informed investment decisions. And as a result hes experienced a significant loss in the 
value of his funds.
What happened
Mr B told us that hed had a Scottish Widows personal pension for many years. In 2014 he 
reallocated his funds to reflect a cautious approach to investment risk because he was nine 
years away from retirement and wanted to protect his capital rather than focus on growth. He 
decided to invest nearly 70% of his pot in a fixed interest fund. Mr Bs planned retirement 
was in January 2023 when he turned 65.
Mr B said:
I subsequently received annual pension statements in writing from Scottish Widows and 
also had online access to the performance of the funds in this particular policy.
I monitored the performance of these funds on a regular monthly basis to ensure that the 
performance was in line with my objectives and expectations so that I could take appropriate 
alternative investment decisions should it become necessary to protect the value of the 
fund.
Mr B says his pension had performed as expected up until December 2021, but by June 
2022 he saw a significant drop in value. He contacted Scottish Widows about this. It 
responded to say that fund performance could not be guaranteed, and noted if he was 
reviewing his investments it strongly suggested discussing any potential changes with a 
financial advisor.
Mr B wrote to Scottish Widows again on 16 June 2022 asking for more information relating 
to the fund and the drop in his pension value. He chased for a response in August and 
September and finally received a response on 28 September 2022. Scottish Widows offered 
him £100 for the delay in responding to his questions, but reiterated pension performance 
was not guaranteed.
Mr B brought his complaint to this Service. He didnt think Scottish Widows had answered all 
his questions. For example, he wanted to understand the underlying mechanics of how the 
fixed interest fund was calculated; he wanted to know why the fund had performed so badly; 
what steps it was taking to mitigate the poor performance; and why it hadnt advised him of 
the decline in the fund so he could take mitigating action. And because of these failings he 
wanted the fund value from December 2021 to be honoured.
An Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint. She thought it had done enough to inform him 
about his pension. She thought some of the information hed requested was commercially 
confidential. And she thought the question hed raised were more appropriate for the input of 
a financial adviser. He disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Bs 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Scottish Widows for Mr B. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
My starting point is the stated objective of Mr Bs fixed interest pension fund:
To provide income and the potential for capital growth by investing in UK Government 
bonds (gilts). The Fund is actively managed. The Fund Manager aims to outperform the 
FTSE Actuaries UK Conventional Gilts All Stocks Index by 0.75% per annum on a rolling 3 
year basis, before deduction of fees. At least 80% of the Fund will invest in UK gilts. It may 
also invest in other government and investment grade corporate bonds. A small portion may 
invest in bonds denominated in currencies other than Sterling. Investment in the asset 
classes will be direct and indirect using derivatives to seek to meet the Funds aim. The use 
of derivatives depends on market conditions and is limited as the intention is this should not 
change the Funds risk profile. Derivatives and stock lending may be used in a way that is 
designed to reduce risk, or cost and/ or generate extra income or growth (often referred to as 
efficient portfolio management).
I wouldnt expect a layperson to understand much of this description, but what is clear is Mr 
Bs fund had a clear strategy, to provide income and the potential for capital growth.
I note Scottish Widows documentation that Mr B received described different fund risk 
profiles, or investment approaches. It described its cautious approach in the following terms:These investments are expected to have a relatively modest risk to the capital value and/or 
income. They have the potential to provide income, and/or, over the medium to long-term, 
relatively modest capital growth. The capital value may fluctuate, although some products 
may offer an element of capital protection.
And it described a balanced approach in the following terms:
These investments carry a risk of loss to capital value but have the potential for capital 
growth and/or income over the medium to long-term. Typically they do not have any 
guarantees and will fluctuate in capital value.
Scottish Widows described its fixed interest fund as a balanced investment approach. Mr B 
has described his outlook as cautious. From his testimony it seems he mayve ended up with 
too much of his pension pot in a fund that was in excess of his risk appetite. This may 
explain the gap between his expectations of fund performance and what actually happened.
Mr B is dissatisfied because Scottish Widows didnt answer his questions fully. He wanted 
more information about where his funds had been invested; how values had been 
calculated; what was behind the funds poor performance; what actions it was taking to 
mitigate poor performance; and to explain why it hadnt informed him of the problems so he 
could take action to mitigate his losses.
The Investigator said she thought the bulk of the questions raised by Mr B were effectively 
commercial in-confidence. I would depart a little from this conclusion. I think customers are 
entitled to expect transparency and clarity, and I dont believe it should ever be the case a 
firm is unable to provide sufficient information to a customer to enable them to make 
informed decisions.
But from the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr B had much of the information he sought and 
needed. For example, I can see he received regular statements about his pension plan from 
Scottish Widows. Ive reviewed the documents dated 28 October 2021 and 5 July 2022. As 
we know, his fixed interest fund was holding at least 80% UK gilts (Government bonds). In 
terms of performance of this investment, his July 2022 statement said:
Bonds had a turbulent year. Government bonds and some types of corporate bonds 
delivered much lower or  and in many cases - negative returns. In part, this was because of 
the threat of inflation (rising prices) as people and businesses started to spend money again. 
When inflation rises, usually interest rates do too, which drives bond yields up, and prices 
down.
There had been a similar review of bond performance in the statement from October 2021.
Mr Bs statements also clearly signposted him to more information about investment 
approaches, fund options and performance. And I can see Scottish Widows also provided Mr 
B with a fund factsheet which provided more granularity in terms of how his fixed interest 
investment was allocated and fund strategy. 
In responding to Mr B, Scottish Widows said the following about its fund management:
With regards to our fund managers, they will always strive to produce the best returns they 
can for our clients over the medium to long term. Its therefore regrettable that you are 
unimpressed with the performance of some of your funds against the median. Fund 
managers can only invest within their funds mandate and will choose companies they 
believe will produce the best returns although when its market conditions that dictate these, 
no guarantees exist.Ive no reason to doubt Scottish Widows did the best it could for its customers. Im mindful 
that just because a fund performs badly for a period of time, that doesnt necessarily mean 
its aims and strategy are misguided or that its being mis-managed. It is more usually a 
reflection of a snapshot in time, prevailing circumstances and the interplay these have with 
the fund strategy.
I think the Investigators observation about independent financial advisers is reasonable. 
Pensions are complex and involve considerations including short, medium and long-term 
customer objectives; their particular circumstances at the time; and their appetite for risk. It is 
the case that an adviser can be helpful in understanding these matters, as well as providing 
expertise and insights into products, portfolios and fund strategies and the suitability of these 
to individual customers.
Of course whether someone seeks out financial advice or not is a matter for the individual 
concerned. Mr B hasnt complained about Scottish Widows being responsible for advising 
him about where to invest in 2014. And Ive seen no evidence that it provided such.
Mr B wanted Scottish Widows to honour the value of his pension fund from December 2021. 
I havent seen a basis for such a claim. I think he had enough information, or access to it, 
prior to making his complaint in June 2022 about the significant issues in the economy which 
were impacting on the performance of the fixed interest fund hed decided to invest in.
I dont think Mr B needed to wait for Scottish Widows response to his complaint - which 
wasnt dealt with as quickly as it shouldve been, nor arguably in the depth it mightve been - 
to have considered whether or not to have changed his fund investment approach, and to 
adapt his pension benefit withdrawal strategy, in light of prevailing conditions.
Scottish Widows offered Mr B £100 for the delay in responding to his complaint. I think this is 
fair and it should honour that payment if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman