DRN-3651177
The complaint
Mr N complains that an appointed representative of Sesame Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. He believes this has caused a financial loss.
It was Sesames appointed representative, rather than Sesame itself, which gave Mr N 
advice. But as Sesame is responsible for responding to the complaint, I will refer to the 
appointed representatives actions as being Sesames.
Professional representatives have helped Mr N to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ns.
What happened
Sesames told us that it holds no documents from the point of sale, so the information 
below is based on the limited evidence provided by Sesame and from Mr Ns recollection of 
events.
Mr N says that Sesame approached him in 1993 and offered him advice about his pension. 
At that time Mr N was 28 years old, he was a member of his employers DB pension 
scheme; the scheme retirement age was 60 and Mr Ns pension fund had a transfer value of 
£3,338. Sesame advised him to transfer his pension benefits to a named personal pension, 
which he did.
In 2021 Mr N complained to Sesame about the suitability of its advice. Amongst other things 
he said:
Sesame shouldnt have advised him to transfer out of his DB scheme as it wasn't in 
his best interests.
It didnt tell him that an alternative investment would need to perform particularly well 
to match the benefits from his DB scheme.
He wasnt looking to take any risk with his pension.
Sesame didnt advise him of the guaranteed benefits he would lose by transferring.
As a result of the transfer his investments would need additional growth to cover the 
fees associated with the personal pension. Fees that weren't payable in the DB 
scheme.
Sesame replied. It said it hadn't considered the merits of Mr Ns complaint because it 
believed hed brought it out of time. It noted that his personal pension benefit statement in 
2013 showed a steep drop in the projected pension income since the previous year. It said 
that as he hadn't wanted to take investment risk then he should have identified at that point 
that there was an issue. Alternatively it said that, by February 2017, his pension statements 
were still showing a 25% reduction in projected pension income since 2012. And, as the 
relevant rules allowed him three years in which to complain, it said he should have 
complained by February 2020. But as he didnt complain until 2021 he was out of time.
Mr N brought his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
assessed the complaint in two parts. First she considered whether or not this was a case 
that we had the power to look into. She thought Mr N had brought his complaint within three 
years of when he ought to have known he had cause to do so. So, she said it was a case we 
could consider.
Our investigator then looked at the merits of Mr Ns complaint. She upheld it. She said that at 
the time the regulators guidance was that they expected most customers to be better off by 
remaining in their DB schemes. And as Sesame was unable to show it had acted in line with 
the regulators guidance she couldnt safely conclude that its advice was suitable. 
Sesame didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. It again argued 
that Mr N had brought his complaint too late. It asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman. The investigator replied and said that, when an ombudsman considered the 
matter, if they believed it was within our jurisdiction, then they would go on to consider the 
merits of the complaint within the same decision.
The complaint was then passed for my review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is this a complaint we have the power to look at?
I've first considered whether or not Mr Ns complaint is one that falls within our jurisdiction. 
And for the reasons I set out below I'm satisfied that it is. 
We dont have a free hand to consider each and every complaint we receive. Our rules as 
set out in the FCA Handbook, are commonly referred to as DISP. DISP 2.8.2R says that 
where a business doesnt consent (as Sesame hasnt here), I cant consider a complaint 
made more than six years after the events complained of, or if later, more than three years 
after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of their cause for 
complaint.
In this case Sesame advised Mr N to transfer his pension benefits in 1993. He complained to 
Sesame in 2021. That is clearly outside of the six years allowed to bring a complaint to this 
Service. So, I have to consider whether he brought his complaint to us within three years of 
when he ought reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint.
Sesame said that, as Mr Ns 2013 pension statement showed a significant drop in his 
projected yearly retirement income he should have known at that point that he had cause for 
complaint. And if he didnt identify grounds for complaint then, he should have done so over 
the ensuing years, as up until 2017 his pensions statements still projected an annual income 
that was considerably less than its 2012 level. But I disagree. It is the case that the 2013 
pension statement showed a drop of around 43% in projected pension income  once Mr N 
reached age 55  compared to the previous year. But the statement also provides a clear 
reason for that drop which isnt related to investment performance. 
The statement has a section titled what you need to know about your yearly statement. 
That section is presented as a series of questions and answers. One of those questions is:
Why has my estimated pension income dropped compared to last year?It gives the following answer:
Your estimated pension income has dropped because weve changed the rate we use to 
calculate it.
It goes on to explain that the calculation rate changed because of government instructions 
based on increasing life expectancy and because of changing interest rates. 
There is also a box containing the following question and answer:
Have I lost money because of these changes?
No, these changes don't affect the performance of your fund or funds.
We've made these changes to give you a better idea of how much you can expect when you 
retire.
So, if Mr N had initially been concerned by the drop in projected pension income then the 
statement would likely have given him reassurance by telling him he hadn't lost anything. 
Indeed it indicates that, given the drop in projected income was based on a government 
instruction, this was something that was likely to affect most personal pensions. So the drop 
in income wasnt because of investment risk or the performance of his personal pension but 
because of an alteration in the way pension providers were instructed to give their 
projections. And I dont think those circumstances would have given Mr N cause to question 
the advice to transfer Sesame provided 20 years earlier. 
Further, Mr N hasnt brought his complaint on the grounds that his personal pension hasnt 
performed as well as he might have hoped. Instead, my understanding is that he complained 
because hed recently learned that the advice to transfer out of a DB pension might not have 
been suitable for him. That is, amongst other things, that Sesame hadn't told him about the 
guarantees hed be giving up or that the product and adviser fees would mean that his 
investments would have to perform even better in order to cover those fees. And I've seen 
no evidence that persuades me Mr N ought to have reasonably been aware of those issues 
more than three years before he put his complaint to Sesame. It follows that I'm persuaded 
Mr N had made his complaint in time and as such this is a complaint that we have the power 
to consider.
Was Sesames advice suitable for Mr N?
In considering the suitability of Sesames advice Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
In 1993 there were two separate bodies which regulated advising firms. Those were the 
Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO) and the 
Financial Intermediaries and Managers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). Its not clear from 
the file which regulator Sesame or its appointed representative came under at the date of 
events. But both regulators gave similar guidance concerning DB transfers in 1992. The 
guidance said that when considering advice on a DB transfer a firm should consider that the 
majority of consumers would be better off remaining in their current scheme. Similarly, both regulators had rules which said that advice should only be given where firms genuinely 
believed the transaction was for the consumers benefit or in their best interests. Both 
regulators also had rules which required firms to keep records to show compliance with their 
regulatory requirements.
Having considered this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the complaint 
for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator.
The evidence Sesame has provided is extremely limited. And I haven't seen paperwork from 
the DB scheme administrator showing the benefits that Mr N would be giving up by 
transferring. Nor have I seen the details and benefits of the scheme he would be transferring 
to. Therefore, I haven't seen any form of comparison of those benefits or analysis setting out 
why Sesame made the recommendation to transfer. So its anything but clear on what basis 
Sesame could conclude that Mr N would benefit from transferring out of his DB scheme. 
That said Im aware that at the time Sesame gave its advice, investment growth levels were 
significantly higher than they have been more recently. So its possible that given Mr N was 
still around 32 years away from his DB schemes retirement age, Sesame might have 
thought that investments in a personal pension had sufficient time to grow. But theres simply 
no evidence on file to demonstrate whether that level of growth would have been sufficient 
for Mr N to have exceeded the level of income his DB scheme would have provided at 
retirement. And given that the regulators guidance was that, for most consumers, it would 
be in their best interests to remain within a DB scheme, I'm not persuaded on the balance of 
probabilities that Sesames advice was suitable for Mr N. 
Further, Mr N has no recollection of Sesame comparing the advantages and disadvantages 
for him of transferring. Indeed his recollection is that Sesame told him his DB scheme was 
worth nothing. I appreciate that Sesame gave its advice around 29 years ago and Mr Ns 
memory will inevitably have faded in that time. I also appreciate that records can go missing 
and particularly over time. But Sesame was required to keep records to demonstrate its 
advice was soundly based. However, theres no evidence that Sesame gave Mr N all the 
information he would need to make such an important decision about giving up guaranteed, 
index linked and increasing benefits from a DB scheme. So I'm not satisfied that its advice 
was suitable for Mr N. It follows that I think Sesame should work out whether Mr N had lost 
out as a result of the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the current regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) launched a 
consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation 
document  CP 22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA published a policy statement on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules 
and guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will 
come into effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr N whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. Hes chosen not 
to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG 17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr N. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sesame to put Mr N, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Sesames unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if Sesame had given suitable advice.
For clarity, as far as I'm aware Mr N has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on his schemes normal retirement age of 60, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance of this decision.
Sesame may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ns 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Sesame should pay the compensation if 
possible into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr N within 90 days of the date Sesame receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Sesame to pay Mr N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. So any period 
of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from 
DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sesame Limited to pay 
Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Sesame Limited to pay Mr N any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Sesame Limited to pay Mr N any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Sesame Limited pays Mr N the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr N.
If Mr N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sesame Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman