DRN-2933522
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Services UK Limited and the premium they quoted 
him to renew his pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 6 January 2020, Mr M purchased a pet insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva, for his 
dog, who Ill refer to as H. Mr M paid a premium of £742.30 for this insurance policy.
In July, Mr M claimed on this policy after H suffered with a bout of sickness. Aviva settled 
this claim and paid out a total of £332.13. There were no other claims made on the policy 
until Aviva issued their renewal documents to Mr M. But Mr M was unhappy with the renewal 
premium Aviva quoted, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M was unhappy that his renewal premium had increased from £742.30 to £1090.79. He 
thought this increase was excessive and didnt think it was fair or justified. He was also 
unhappy that if he decided to take out another policy for a lesser premium amount with 
another insurer, H wouldnt be covered if he suffered any further sickness as this would need 
to be disclosed. So, he wanted Aviva to reduce his renewal premium to a fairer amount.
Aviva responded and didnt agree. They explained renewal premiums were based on several 
factors, including the age and breed of the dog, post code, general vet fee increases and 
any claim history on the policy. And considering this, they thought the premium theyd 
calculated was a fair one. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and because of 
this, didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained our service is 
unable to say how much Aviva should or shouldnt charge for a policy. But she considered 
whether Aviva had acted fairly towards Mr M when advising him of the renewal premium and 
the reasons why it may have increased. And having done so, she didnt think Aviva had 
done anything wrong. She also recognised Avivas final response confused the original and 
renewal premium prices and understood why Mr M was left with the impression that his 
complaint hadnt been taken seriously. But this didnt change her opinion that Aviva acted 
fairly when increasing the premium. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
But Mr M didnt agree. He maintained his view that the premium was excessive. And he 
thought it represented Aviva implementing a business process to entice customers into 
insuring with them as new customers then increasing prices knowing customers were 
unlikely to leave. And he didnt think this was fair. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I understand H is a 
relatively young dog and that Mr M didnt consider Hs sickness to be a symptom of serious 
underlying condition. Because of this, even though he did claim on the policy, I can 
appreciate why Mr M wouldnt have expected his premium to increase significantly. So, 
when Mr M received his renewal premium which had increased by 47%, I can appreciate 
why he wouldve been left frustrated and upset. I appreciate this is a significant increase, 
which will have had a financial impact on Mr M.
But for me to say Aviva had done something wrong, Id need to see evidence that satisfied 
me the way they calculated the renewal premium was incorrect. Or, by increasing the 
premium to that extent, Aviva had acted unfairly by doing so. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached the decision I have, I think it would be useful to explain 
exactly what I have and havent been able to consider. The Financial Conduct Authority, the 
industry regulator, doesnt regulate the prices insurers charge or the methods an insurer may 
use to calculate a price. So, Im not able to make a decision on whether the renewal 
premium Aviva charged Mr M was excessive, as theyre entitled to charge Mr M whatever 
premium they feel is reasonable.
But what I have been able to consider is whether Aviva acted fairly when doing so. So, Ive 
thought about Avivas reasons for increasing Mr Ms premium, as well as how clearly they 
communicated this to Mr M and the options he had available to him.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr M agreed to when he purchased his 
original pet insurance policy with Aviva in January 2020. These explain Additionally, 
premiums will increase due to factors such as your pets age, claims history and our view of 
the future costs of providing cover. So, I think Aviva made it reasonably to clear to Mr M that 
his premium was always subject to increases.
In Avivas response to Mr Ms complaint, they listed several factors they consider when 
deciding the renewal premium of a policy. Including within this was Hs age and his claim 
history. And when Aviva decided Mr Ms new premium price, H was a year older and Mr M 
had made a claim on his policy. Its common industry practice in any type of insurance that a 
premium will increase when a claim has been made on the policy. This is because the 
insurer deems this as evidence of an increased risk in further claims being made. While I 
appreciate Mr M may think this is unfair, I cant say this is evidence that Aviva have done 
anything wrong.
Ive seen the renewal letter Aviva sent to Mr M on 23 December 2020. The letter explained 
You should check that the levels of cover offered by this renewal meets your needs and you 
may wish to compare the prices and levels of cover offered by alternative providers. If you 
have been with us for a number of years, you may be able to get the insurance cover you 
want at a better price if you shop around.  This letter was sent two weeks before Mr Ms 
policy was due to renew so I think it gave Mr M time to consider his options. And I think 
Aviva made it reasonably clear that, if Mr M was unhappy with the premium price, he had the 
option to shop around for a cheaper alternative. So, I think Aviva acted fairly and gave Mr M a reasonable amount of time to find a cheaper alternative provider, if thats what he wished 
to do.
Mr M has said he doesnt think this was fair, as any new insurer would exclude any further 
bouts of vomiting from cover. But I dont think this is the fault of Aviva. Its common practice 
within the industry to ask customers to declare any pre-existing symptoms or conditions 
theyre aware of before they take out the policy. This is again so the new potential insurer 
can take this risk into account on the policy. 
If Mr M wanted to ensure H was covered for further bouts of sickness, he couldve done this 
by paying the increased renewal premium with Aviva. But this premium had been increased 
to account for the risk Aviva were willing to insure, as H had suffered with sickness in the 
previous policy year. I dont think its fair to ask Aviva to insure H for the same premium as 
the year before, when his claims history information had changed during that time. Because 
of this, I cant say Aviva have acted unfairly and so, I dont think they need to do anything 
more.
Ive also thought about the error Aviva made in their response to Mr Ms complaint. I think its 
clear they confused the original premium price with the renewal premium. And I can 
understand why Mr M would be upset about this. But I also think it was clear the message 
Aviva were trying to put across and I dont think the mistake was made purposefully. I also 
dont think it impacts my decision regarding the renewal premium price. So, although I 
recognise Mr Ms concern and Im critical of the mistake Aviva made, I dont think anything 
further needs to be done on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt address 
the financial impact the increased premium has had, or his feeling of being unfairly treated. 
But I hope this decision goes some way to explaining why I think Aviva have acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with standard industry practice. And I hope that provides some form of 
closure to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman