DRN-4162148
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Equifax Limited mixed up his credit file data with his siblings.
What happened
In 2022, Mr A discovered that his siblings credit information was on his credit file, including 
negative information.
Equifax apologised and removed the incorrect data. They offered Mr A £150 compensation.
Mr A came to our service. He explained that hed been unable to get certain lending, which 
he said caused him large financial losses and meant he was unable to move.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found that Mr A had not been turned 
down for the lending due to Equifaxs error  as his Equifax file hadnt been used. They felt 
Equifaxs offer was fair.
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A has been going through a tough time more widely, and I understand 
his strength of feeling about this matter.
Both sides accept that Equifax got things wrong in linking Mr As data to his siblings. And its 
evident that this caused some real stress and upset for Mr A.
I can see that Equifax acted promptly to fix the mistake once they were made aware of it. So 
they did what Id expect them to in that regard.
When it comes to the lending Mr A was turned down for, I can see that his Equifax file was 
not looked at for that lending. They used one or more of the other credit reference agencies, 
rather than Equifax. So as far as I can see, Equifaxs error did not cause Mr A to get turned 
down for the lending in question, nor did it cause any of the knock-on effects such as him 
being unable to move. And I cant fairly tell Equifax to compensate him for those losses if 
they didnt cause those losses.
With that said, as I mentioned before, its evident that Equifax caused Mr A some non-
financial losses  such as stress, upset, and some strain on his relationship with his siblings.
When a business gets things wrong in this sort of way, we often tell them to pay 
compensation, to acknowledge their error and help put right the impact it had. In terms of the 
amounts, its worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, and not 
to fine or punish businesses. We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to 
award, and I need to be consistent with those. Taking into account the impact Equifaxs 
mistake had here, I find that the £150 compensation they offered is fair to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that Equifax Limited have already made a fair offer to 
put things right in this case. They should pay the £150 compensation to Mr A, if they have 
not done so already. I dont make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman