DRN-4119609
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr R complain that Euroins AD has unfairly declined the medical expenses claim 
they made under their travel insurance policy.
Any reference to Euroins also includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr R took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy in March 2022. This 
policy was insured through Euroins.
In June 2022, Mrs A and Mr R were on holiday abroad when Mrs A became unwell and 
needed to visit the hospital. She was suffering from a migraine, with nausea and vomiting. 
She received treatment, including fluids, anti-sickness medication and antibiotics, and was 
discharged following an overnight stay. Upon her return to the UK, she made a claim for the 
costs she incurred.
Euroins declined the claim. It said the hospital report stated Mrs A had a history of migraines 
and was taking medication for the condition. Euroins said this pre-existing condition hadnt 
been declared when taking out the policy and therefore it wasnt covered. Unhappy with this, 
Mrs A complained to Euroins. She said migraines were a symptom of another condition 
which she had declared and had been accepted by Euroins when taking out the policy. But 
she also made the point that she was suffering from an infection when in hospital for which 
they gave her antibiotics  these are not used in the treatment of migraines. So, she thought 
her claim should be paid.
Euroins didnt alter its stance and Mrs A decided to bring her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into the matter. She found that by saying Mrs A didnt declare her 
condition when taking out the policy, Euroins was indicating Mrs A had misrepresented the 
facts. But our investigator thought that Mrs A had answered the questions posed by Euroins 
to the best of her knowledge and had taken reasonable care. So, she said that Euroins 
couldnt use this to decline the claim. She recommended it pay the claim, with interest, along 
with £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs A and Mr R for the worry of 
the financial impact of having to cover a large credit card bill. 
Mrs A and Mr R agreed with the investigators opinion, but Euroins didnt respond. In the 
circumstances, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs A and Mr Rs complaint.
Euroins has declined the claim on the basis the hospital report states Mrs A was admitted 
suffering from a migraine and that she had suffered from migraines for some time. Euroins 
said she didnt declare this as a pre-existing condition when taking out the cover and 
conditions not declared arent covered by the policy. This means Euroins consider that Mrs A 
misrepresented the facts surrounding her pre-existing medical conditions when taking out 
the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance, theyll typically be asked questions about themselves 
(and anyone else who is to be insured under the policy) as well as the risks they want to 
insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether it wishes to cover those 
risks and how much it will charge for doing so. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty 
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering an 
insurance contract. They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to 
assess the risk. If they dont, there are some circumstances in which an insurer may be able 
to avoid the insurance contact  but thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. 
In the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation then the insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided 
with the wrong information. 
Mrs A believes that her migraines are a symptom of another condition which she suffers 
from. She has provided information which refers to her condition and how headaches can be 
a symptom. So, she says this shows that the migraines are related. This information has 
been made available to Euroins for it to consider but no response has been received. I also 
note that Euroins didnt request any medical evidence from Mrs As GP in order to see if her 
migraines were a separate issue  even though it would have had the opportunity to do so. 
As no dispute has been received from Euroins, it would appear that it has accepted the link 
between migraines and Mrs As declared condition. 
Under CIDRA, I must first decide whether Mrs A took reasonable care. This can involve 
several considerations including whether the questions she was asked at the time of taking 
out the policy were sufficiently clear and whether she answered those accurately, carefully 
and to the best of her knowledge.
Euroins has not provided information relating to the questions Mrs A was asked when 
declaring her pre-existing conditions. However, the policy certificate details the medical 
condition that Mrs A declared along with two questions and the answers that were given. 
The first asks which type of the disease Mrs A has (the condition has graded levels of 
disease), and the second question asks how many unplanned hospital admissions 
happened in the previous 12 months. 
I think the questions are clear and I havent been provided any evidence to show that Mrs A 
hasnt answered them accurately. Euroins doesnt appear to have asked about the 
symptoms of this condition as part of the declaration process. Im therefore satisfied Mrs A 
took reasonable care when answering the questions posed. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs A has misrepresented the facts when declaring her pre-existing 
conditions and therefore the decision to decline the claim isnt fair and reasonable.
As a result of Euroins declining the claim, Mrs A and Mr R told us that they were worried 
about how they would be able to pay for Mrs As medical treatment. They had made the 
payment on a credit card, thinking they would get the money back following the claim. Im 
aware this isnt an insignificant sum and Im sure that this would have been a very worrying 
and difficult time for them. I dont think that Euroins has handled this appropriately. Our 
investigator recommended Euroins make a payment of £150 to Mrs A and Mr R for the trouble and upset caused. Euroins hasnt provided any comment as to why this shouldnt be 
paid, so I see no reason to change this. 
Putting things right
Euroins needs to pay the claim, on the basis that Mrs A has correctly declared her pre-
existing conditions, in line with the relevant policy limits and making deductions for any 
excess that may be due.
It should also pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount, calculated from one month 
after the claim was logged until the date of settlement. 
Euroins also needs to pay Mrs A and Mr R the sum of £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint.
I direct Euroins AD to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman