DRN-4232098
The complaint
Mr R complained about esure Insurance Limiteds service when they claimed for accident 
repairs under their motor insurance policy.
For ease Ill mostly refer to Mr R from now, as he brought the complaint. 
What happened
Mr Rs car was in an accident and its rear was damaged. Esure agreed that their approved 
repairers (esures garage) would repair the accident-related damage. 
But when esures garage later inspected the car, they told Mr R that it also had damage to 
the front. Mr R said that hadnt happened in the accident. So esure decided that the cars 
front damage must have been pre-existing damage caused by another incident. Esure 
wouldnt repair the damage to the front of the car as part of the accident claim. But they were 
willing to do so if Mr R made a separate claim and paid another £300 policy excess. 
Mr R didnt think this was fair. He said he didnt know how the cars front damage happened 
and couldnt be expected to. But he knew it didnt happen in the accident or before esures 
recovery agents collected it on the same day as the accident. He thought the further damage 
must have happened while his car was in the control of esure, esures garage or esures 
recovery agents. 
Esure repaired only the rear damage and returned the car to Mr R. He complained that hed 
been left to drive a still-damaged car. He wanted esure to repair the rear damage too and 
compensate him for that and for their delays and poor service. He also complained about 
esures failure to provide him with a courtesy car earlier. 
The investigator recommended that his complaint should be partly upheld. He thought that 
it was fair that esure didnt give Mr R a courtesy car earlier. But he thought it was unfair of 
esure to decide not to repair the cars front damage, and that esure should repair his car 
fully and pay him compensation. Esure didnt agree and so Mr Rs case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence 
and whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Mr R said as follows. The accident was on 28 October and the accident damage was to 
only the rear of his car. Mr R showed us a video of the car in the immediate aftermath of 
the accident. This shows damage to the back of the car and no damage to the front. 
Mr R hadnt been aware of any damage to the cars front until esures garage told them 
about it.  Mr R said he couldnt know when or how the new damage had been caused. But 
he thought it could have been damaged further by the recovery agent taking it to esures 
garage. He said esures recovery company took it away on 28 October a few hours after 
the accident. 
Esure relied on Mr R saying he didnt know how the damage occurred. They said Mr R 
hadnt shown that the other damage was caused by esures agents, and that their recovery 
agents were meticulous in recording any pre-existing damage to the cars they collected, in 
order to challenge such claims. They said they would provide photos showing the cars 
condition on collection by their recovery agents. 
However esure havent done that. Mr R thought they were confused about which recovery 
agent collected his car, as it wasnt the one esure thought it was. But in any event, esure 
havent been able to show us any evidence from any recovery agents showing Mr Rs cars 
condition when they collected it.  
Mr R said that they collected it on 28 October a few hours after the incident. Esure have 
shown us their engineers report on his car. It said the engineers inspection took place at 
esures garage on 28 October. It shows damage to both front and back of the car and 
includes photos of that, though the photos are said to be 14 November. The reports photos 
show that the location of the front damage was on the cars front bumper around the cars 
towing eyes, and that there was damage to one of the towing eye covers. This could 
suggest that it was caused by towing.  
I dont think that the above evidence was enough for esure to reasonably decide that the 
cars front damage was pre-existing. I think that its more likely than not that the front 
damage to the car happened while the car was in esures control. So I dont think they 
acted fairly and reasonably here. And I think that esure should now repair the front damage 
to Mr Rs car and any further damage resulting from their not having repaired that front 
damage earlier. 
Mr R said they found it inconvenient to be without their car after the accident and thought 
that esure should have given them a courtesy car earlier. But I think esure authorised the 
courtesy car when they authorised the repairs, and thats in line with their policy and wasnt 
unreasonable. 
However I think that they should give Mr R a courtesy car while their car is back in the 
garage  for the front damage repairs Ive decided above that esure should do now.   
Mr R has had to carry on using his car with the front still damaged, and he also said he kept 
having to chase esure for information during this time. I can see that this has caused him 
and his family more trouble and inconvenience than what Id expect from a claim of this 
type. I think that £300 does fairly reflect that and esure should pay them that amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and I 
require esure to do the following:
Repair the remaining damage to the front of Mrs A and Mr Rs car which they didnt 
repair before and repair any another damage that has arisen with the car due to 
esures failure to repair the cars front damage at the correct earlier time
Provide Mrs A and Mr R with a courtesy car during the above repairs Pay Mrs A and Mr R £300 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
esures actions caused them. 
Esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs A 
and Mr R accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
