DRN-2708495
The complaint
Mr C complains that the car he bought and paid for in part using his Sainsbury's Bank Plc 
credit card wasnt as described. He raised a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75) requesting that the cost of repairs be covered but says the offer he 
received wasnt fair. 
What happened
Mr C acquired a used car in May 2019. He partly paid for the car using his Sainsbury's Bank 
credit card. The car was advertised as being immaculate, with a full service history including 
a service carried out in April 2019 and having undergone a full 82 point check. Mr C also 
paid for additional rust treatment to happen before collection.
Around a week after collecting the car, Mr C contacted the dealer to raise concerns that the 
rust treatment hadnt been applied correctly, there was an issue with the gears and to 
request a copy of the most recent service. Mr C then requested further information about the 
82 point check and had the brake fluid changed (which he thought should have been part of 
the April 2019 service). Although the dealer offered to take back the car, Mr C didnt agree to 
this. The dealer offered to have the vehicle inspected and remedial work carried out but Mr C 
wanted work carried out locally and so it offered to pay £300 towards this. Mr C didnt accept 
this. 
Mr C raised a section 75 claim with Sainsburys Bank in June 2019 and provided evidence to 
support his claim including vehicle inspection reports and estimates of works. These listed 
several issues with both the mechanics of the vehicle and the paintwork. 
Sainsburys Bank provided Mr C with a settlement offer for his claim. It offered to pay £450 
towards a full service; £230.05 to cover the fuel tank replacement, £175 to cover the 
independent report fee and £300 to honour the dealers offer (as the dealer was no longer 
operating). It also offered to pay Mr C £50 compensation for the time it had taken to provide 
an outcome to his claim.
Mr C didnt accept the offer made by Sainsburys Bank and raised his complaint with this 
service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She noted that Mr C had spent time viewing the 
vehicle before he collected it but said he had only noticed the areas of corrosion when he 
cleaned the vehicle a few days after collection. She didnt think it fair to say Mr C should 
have noticed all issues raised with the paintwork and thought it reasonable to accept these 
became apparent to him after collection. She was satisfied that the issues raised both with 
the paintwork and the mechanics were present at the point of supply and that the rust 
treatment Mr C had requested hadnt been undertaken to a reasonable standard. Given the 
vehicle had been advertised as being immaculate she thought a misrepresentation had 
occurred. She recommended that Sainsburys Bank reimbursed Mr C for the cost of 
renewing the brake fluid and repairing the fuel tank leak and arrange for the remaining 
mechanical and bodywork issues to be put right to a satisfactory standard at no cost to Mr C. 
Our investigator noted the comments Mr C had made about the service he had received and 
how Sainsburys Bank had reviewed his evidence. She noted that Sainsburys Bank had 
provided detailed information about the section 75 claim and thought the offer of £50 
compensation for the delay was reasonable. 
Sainsburys Bank agreed to the refunds for the brake fluid and fuel tank leak and the £50 
compensation. It didnt accept that it was required to cover the cost of all the repairs listed in 
the reports and estimates provided. It accepted that there were some issues present when 
the vehicle was purchased and agreed to cover the cost of the small dent in the front right 
wing and left rear panel scratch but didnt agree it should cover the cost of a full respray. It 
reiterated that Mr C had inspected the vehicle before acquisition and noted that an estimate 
provided was headed repair of accidental damage.
My findings
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised a claim under section 75. Under section 75 a consumer (Mr C), can in 
certain circumstances raise a claim against the credit provider (Sainsburys Bank) if theres 
been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Misrepresentation
Mr C acquired a used car from a dealer. The car was advertised as being immaculate, 
having a full service history including a service in April 2019 and having undergone an 82 
point check. Mr C also paid for rust treatment to be applied before collecting the car. Within 
the first month Mr C had raised several issues with the vehicle, both regarding the paintwork 
and the mechanics. These issues were confirmed in inspection reports and given when they 
were raised I accept the issues were more likely than not present at the point of sale.
The issues raised with the paintwork do not support the vehicle being immaculate. I note the 
comments about wear and tear, but I think the issues identified shouldnt have been present 
on a vehicle classed as immaculate. Sainsburys Bank has noted that Mr C inspected the 
vehicle before he bought it and didnt raise concerns about the paintwork then. However, 
having gone through the list of issues I do not find it reasonable to expect Mr C to have 
identified these at the time. He raised the issues shortly after acquisition and it was noted 
that the corrosion should have been identified in the 82 point check. 
The car was also sold has having a full service history and a service carried out in April 
2019. It then became clear that the car was inspected rather than serviced in April 2019. 
This was clearly important to Mr C given he asked for a copy of the service at acquisition 
and then chased this shortly after.
Based on the evidence I agree that there were false statements of fact which induced Mr C 
into buying the car. Therefore, I agree the car was misrepresented.
Breach of contract
Mr C paid for rust treatment to be applied to the vehicle. Based on the reports provided it 
doesnt appear this was applied to a satisfactory standard. The regulations require services 
to be provided with reasonable skill and care and based on the evidence I do not find that 
this happened in this case. Therefore, I think that there was a breach of contract regarding the rust treatment.
Section 75
Mr C paid part of the cost of the vehicle (including the rust treatment) using his Sainsburys 
Bank credit card. Therefore, I find that the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is in place in 
this case. And as I am satisfied that misrepresentation and breach of contract occurred, I 
agree that his claim should be upheld under section 75. 
Remedy
The dealer gave Mr C the offer to return the car and receive his part exchanged car back, 
but he didnt accept this. At the time Mr C wasnt aware of the extent of the issues and I do 
not find it unreasonable that he wished to keep the vehicle and have the required repairs 
carried out. As the dealer stopped operating, the issue couldnt be resolved directly with it 
and I also note Mr Cs comment about losing faith in the dealer. I note the dealers offer of 
paying £300 towards repairs. 
Sainsburys Bank has agreed to honour the £300 offer as well as reimburse Mr C for the 
costs of the fuel tank repair and brake fluid change. However, I do not find this goes far 
enough. The inspection report dated 2 July 2019 lists the following areas that require 
attention: 
Thrust bearing noisy
Transfer box oil residue 
Play in prop-shaft
Right front swivel ball leak
Corrosion to front screen scuttle
Left rear panel scratch
Small dent right front wing
Rear door top hinge corroded
The service history is also noted as being incomplete.
Mr C provided an estimate of for repairs from a bodywork provider. I note the comment 
about the title being accident repair, but Mr C has confirmed he hadnt been in an accident 
and given when the invoice was prepared (4 July 2019) I think it reasonable to accept that 
this reflects issues that were present when Mr C acquired the vehicle. The estimate for 
paintwork repairs is much more comprehensive and lists several areas requiring attention. 
While I note the comments made about this list of repairs, as this was also provided on 4 
July 2019 and the vehicle was provided on the basis it was immaculate, I find that it is 
reasonable the work covered in the bodyworks quote is covered by Sainsburys Bank along 
with the items listed in the inspection report.
A quote for repairs for the mechanical issues (including a full service) was also provided 
dated 8 July 2019 and a quote for the wax oil was provided dated 1 July 2019. 
As I find, based on when the issues were raised, it is more likely than not that the paintwork and mechanical issues with the vehicle were present at the point of supply I find the fairest 
outcome to this complaint is for Sainsburys Bank to cover the cost of the repairs as listed in 
the reports and estimates as well as refunding the amounts already agreed.
In its initial offer to Mr C, Sainsburys Bank also offered to refund the cost of the inspection 
Mr C had carried out (£175) I think this should also be refunded. 
Service
I note the comments made about the service Mr C received from Sainsburys Bank, but I find 
the evidence supports it carried out an investigation into Mr Cs claim and while I do not find 
its offer went far enough I dont find I can say I didnt investigate the issues fully. I note its 
offer to pay Mr c £50 compensation for the delay and think this is reasonable.
Putting things right
In resolution of this complaint, Sainsburys Bank should:
1. refund Mr C £51.83 he paid for renewing the brake fluid (invoice dated 7 June 2019);
2. refund Mr C £338.95 he paid to repair the fuel tank leak (invoice dated 25 March 
2020);
3. refund Mr C £175 for the inspection report dated 2 July 2019;
4. arrange for the remaining mechanical and bodywork issues set out in the inspection 
report dated 2 July 2019 and estimates of paintwork and mechanical works from July 
2019. For the avoidance of doubt this includes a full service being carried out and the 
wax oil treatment being completed to a reasonable standard; and
5. pay Mr C £50 compensation
Items 1, 2 and 3 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Sainsburys Bank considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sainsbury's Bank Plc should take the actions 
set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman