DRN-3066690
The complaint
Mr S complains through his representative, Mr C.as director of R, a limited company, that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined its commercial insurance claim for fire damage to its 
property undergoing conversion, and voided the policy.
What happened
In December 2018 R took out a policy with AXA, to cover a property it owned, which was 
undergoing conversion from a 20 bed house in multiple occupancy (HMO) to a 23 bed HMO. 
Initially AXA was informed that the conversion works were cosmetic only and would take 
three or four weeks. Subsequently this time period was changed to three to four months. 
AXA asked for further details of the work and asked Mr S to complete a Contract Works 
Questionnaire. AXA said that as the works appeared to be major structural refurbishment it 
proposed to offer fire, lightning, explosion and earthquake (FLEA) cover only. It also added, 
amongst others, the following endorsement:
No future tenant to be Asylum Seekers, Housing Association, homeless, vulnerable adults 
or students,
The terms of the policy were accepted by R. In November 2019, following an arson attack, 
the property was damaged by fire. R made a claim to AXA. In the course of its investigation, 
AXA discovered that, on completion of the works it had always been Rs intention to let the 
property through a housing association which let to homeless persons. R intended to cancel 
the policy once the works were completed.
AXA said it wouldnt have offered a policy, had it known the true circumstances. It said that R 
had misrepresented or failed to disclose this information to it when taking out the policy. So 
R had breached its duty, under the 2015 Insurance Act, to provide a fair presentation of the 
risk prior to inception. As a consequence it voided the policy and declined the claim. As it 
deemed the breach to be deliberate, it retained the premiums.
On referral to this service our investigator said that AXA had acted reasonably.
Mr C said that there was no misrepresentation, the policy would have run the whole twelve 
months but for the fire. R openly disclosed everything to the broker, there was no reason to 
hide or lie about any fact or issue - what would be the benefit in doing this? AXA was put at 
no greater risk and R has not breached any of their policy terms or conditions and would not 
have done so at any period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a commercial policyholder R and its directors who took out the insurance had to comply 
with the Insurance Act 2015. This says that Before a contract of insurance is entered into, 
the insured must make to the insurer a fair presentation of the risk.. This means disclosure 
of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know. Here its been 
established that before taking out the policy Mr S was aware that the property, once 
refurbished, would be let to or via a housing association, and that the tenants would be 
homeless persons. It was always the intention to cancel the policy once works were 
complete, and take out a more suitable policy to cover that class of tenant.
Whatever the broker might have been told, this information wasnt relayed to AXA. If the 
policy had run its course for the years contract, and the insurance moved elsewhere, of 
course AXA wouldnt have had any right to say what type any future tenant might be. But the 
intention was to cover the property for the duration of the refurbishment works, then 
immediately cancel it. Whilst there was a right to do that under the terms of the contract, I 
think this was a material circumstance which AXA should have been told about. The policy 
was offered on a twelve month renewable contract, and the risk would have been spread 
over the year. Had the works been finished when anticipated then the risk would have 
diminished for the rest of the term and the policy would have been priced accordingly. Short 
term insurance for unoccupied properties whilst works are taking place can be costly, so I 
think R had the benefit of a policy priced with certain conditions attached, but which probably 
wouldnt have been issued on a short term basis.
I do understand that works can overrun, but as Ive said the intention was to cancel the 
policy once the works had finished rather than not renew at the end of the year. So I think R 
was in breach of its duty to make a fair presentation of the risk, and that, as AXA wouldnt 
have issued a policy, its entitled to void it and not pay the claim. I think it was fair to say this 
was deliberate so AXA is entitled to retain the premiums. 
Mr C has pointed out that R didnt make any misrepresentation, which may well be the case. 
But as Ive found it failed to disclose information it should have in order to make a fair 
presentation, it was in breach of that, rather than the duty not to make a misrepresentation.
Im aware that AXA has mentioned other issues in its final response letter, namely the fact 
that there were incidents at the property during the policy year, and that R misrepresented 
the nature of the works to be carried out. I dont believe AXA has relied on those points. To 
be clear I dont think it can be said that there was any duty to disclose those incidents during 
the policy year, and AXAs guidelines refer to claims, rather than incidents for which no claim 
was made. In respect of the work, I can understand how that can overrun.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman