DRN-1628105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander), associated with their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Santander in August 1999 and they also took out a 
PPI policy to provide cover for accident, sickness or unemployment (AS&U) for both Mr and 
Mrs B. This PPI policy was cancelled in December 2000.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Santander that this PPI policy was mis-sold but Santander 
hasnt upheld their complaint.
Santander also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on 
any of the premiums that needed to be repaid. It offered and says it has paid £23.81 
compensation for this. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with what Santander said so brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold and Santander had paid 
fair compensation for any excess commission. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Mr and Mrs B say they do not recall ever taking out the PPI and were not aware they were 
paying for it. They say they never agreed to take it out, have never received any 
correspondence or statements about it and cannot recall setting up a separate direct debit 
for the PPI, so it must have been paid as part of their mortgage payments. Mr and Mrs B say 
they didnt need the PPI as they both worked and would have got sick pay if unable to work 
through sickness or accident. 
In this complaint Mr and Mrs B have been unable to provide any documentary evidence or 
records about what happened when they took out their mortgage and the PPI policy in 1999.  
They have provided some limited recollections about the application process for their 
mortgage and PPI, but it isnt surprising they have no records and only limited recall abou 
the process when this was over 20 years ago. 
It also is not surprising that Santander only has limited records available about the mortgage 
and PPI application, again because it was made many years ago. It has been able to provide 
some computer screen shots with some summary information about the mortgage and PPI 
but does not have the specific documents that were completed. It has however been able to 
provide some information from the insurer about the policy from when it was taken out.  
The screen shots and other documents show the PPI was taken out in August 1999 and was 
cancelled in December 2000. A copy of a welcome letter dated 16 September 1999 for the 
insurance, sent to Mr and Mrs B by the insurer, has been provided. 
This welcome letter provided a copy of the Schedule of Insurance, a booklet about the PPI 
cover and set out the payments that would be taken for the PPI. The letter states the first 
payment for £20.28, was to be taken from Mr and Mrs Bs bank account by direct debit on 28 
October 1999, this was to pay the first three months cover. After that it was stated the direct 
debit would be for £6.76 each month, the first direct debit for this amount to be taken on 
28 November 1999. The letter also provided the reference information that would appear on 
the statements against the direct debit for the PPI.
There was additional letter of the same date to Mr and Mrs B that indicated the application 
form submitted for the PPI cover had not specified what split of the benefit they may want. 
So, the cover had been set up with a split of 50/50 of the benefit for the policy for each of 
them. The letter advised if Mr and Mrs B wanted to change this or discuss any other aspects 
of the cover, they should call the number given.
I cannot know what was said to Mr and Mrs B at the meeting when they applied for their 
mortgage and the PPI. Nor have I seen the forms that were actually completed. Santander 
says a separate application form would have been completed for the PPI and the 
correspondence from the insurer does indicate this was the case. 
Taking account of the information and evidence I have seen I think it most likely PPI was 
discussed at the meeting with Mr and Mrs B and a separate application form was completed. 
I have seen samples of the type of form used around that time and this would have indicated 
to them they had a choice about taking out the PPI. So, although Mr and Mrs B do not recall 
this, I think they did complete a separate application and agreed to take out the PPI at the 
time. 
The records provided by Santander and the insurer indicate a separate direct debit was set 
up for the PPI to be taken from Mr and Mrs B bank account. This would also have required 
completion of a separate direct debit form. So again, although Mr and Mrs B do not recall 
this, the information strongly indicates this is what happened and at the time Mr and Mrs B 
should have been aware they were paying for the PPI.
Whilst I think Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the PPI I still have to consider if the policy 
was suitable for them in their particular circumstances. The cover they took out was to cover 
them both. From the information provided about their circumstances at the time I think they 
were both eligible for the policy. 
They were both in full-time employment and there is no indication either of them had any 
unusual employment conditions. I cannot be sure if full details and any restrictions of the 
policy were explained in any detail to Mr and Mrs B. So, I have looked at what information 
has been provided from the records of Santander, and by Mr and Mrs B from their 
recollections, to see if any restrictions would have affected any claim by either of them and 
so possibly affected their decision whether to take out the PPI or not.Mr and Mrs B say they had no pre-existing medical conditions at the time they took out the 
policy, so they would not have been affected by this for any claim for accident or sickness. 
The say they both had some employment sickness benefits if they were off work sick and 
Mr B had good benefits of six months full pay and six months half pay. Plus, if either of them 
had been made redundant they may have received a basic redundancy payment. 
But the PPI policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits or redundancy 
payment. And the PPI would have been useful to pay the mortgage at what could have been 
a difficult time if either of them was not working for any reason. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they had some savings but have provided no evidence to support 
how much they may have had. But again, savings could have been needed for other living 
expenses and may have been essential if one of them was not working and they had to rely 
on one income. 
I have seen nothing to show Mr and Mrs B were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if something 
went wrong and either of them was unable to work for any reason. 
The cost and benefit would have been set out at the time of sale, and as I have already 
indicated Mr and Mrs B this was reaffirmed in correspondence and did come out of their 
bank account separately to the mortgage. So as a separate direct debit was set up I think 
they would have been made aware of the cost at the time of applying for the policy for the 
level of cover they took out. The cost was also reasonable when considering the benefits 
chosen and there is nothing to indicate the PPI was unaffordable.
In summary, its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs B at the time of the 
sale of the PPI policy may not have been as clear as it couldve been. But I think Mr and Mrs 
B did make a choice to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And I 
dont think better information about the PPI policy would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking 
out the cover as they were not affected by any restrictions or limitations in the terms and 
conditions.
It follows I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold by Santander. 
Ive also considered the issues about any excess commission and profit share that would 
have been part of the PPI premiums needs to be refunded by Santander. Santander wrote to 
Mr and Mrs B and offered compensation of £23.81 in relation to this. Mr and Mrs B signed 
and returned the acceptance form for this and in December 2019 Santander indicated this 
payment would be made to the bank account details provided within 14 days. Santander 
says the payment was made.
I think what Santander offered for this excess commission compensation is fair and as this 
has been paid there is nothing further due.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold by Santander 
UK Plc to Mr and Mrs B and Im not upholding this complaint. Compensation for any excess 
commission and profit share has been offered, accepted and paid so nothing further is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 Chris Fraser
Ombudsman