DRN-2928541
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the amount Ageas Insurance Limited has offered them to 
settle their motor insurance claim.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the valuation Ageas has placed on their van 
which was written off in an accident that wasnt their fault. Ageas has offered Mr and Mrs D 
£4,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the amount 
Ageas has offered is fair and reasonable. I do so for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs Ds policy sets out that Ageas will pay the cost of replacing the vehicle 
with one of a similar age, type, mileage and condition, immediately before the loss or 
damage happened. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs Ds van was used for leisure purposes and was therefore 
fitted out differently to the usual van of its type. It is likely therefore that Mr and Mrs D 
will find it difficult to find an exact replacement for what they had previously. In light of 
this, I would expect Ageas to make an offer to Mr and Mrs D which takes into account 
the differences the van had to a standard model, as far as practicably possible. 
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade 
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides 
refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as 
well as any extras and the mileage. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower 
than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value 
of the vehicle.
The trade guides, once VAT has been added give values for the base vehicle as 
£2,996.40, £3,025.20, £3,510 and £3,847.  Ageas has offered a value with VAT of 
£3,500. This is within the range of the trade guides for the base vehicle and therefore 
I think it is fair and reasonable. 
In addition, Ageas has offered a further £1,000 to recognise the modifications the van 
had. Again, given this isnt a policy that provides new for old  nor is it intended to 
provide a value which covers all of the costs of retrofitting a replacement van to the 
exact specification of the old van, I think this is a fair and reasonable amount. 
A bespoke valuation for the van was obtained which reflected the base vehicle and 
the specification Mr and Mrs Ds van had. However, this came out lower than the 
amount Ageas has offered. Given the type of van Mr and Mrs D has is generally used 
by tradesman, the internal layout that they had wouldnt be as desirable to the 
general market, so I dont think this is surprising. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds van suited their circumstances and needs, however 
having reviewed everything, I think the amount Ageas has offered is fair and 
reasonable and in line with the policy terms and conditions. I wont therefore be 
asking Ageas to increase this amount. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman