DRN-3650182
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC asked her to supply additional documents, or it
would close her credit card account. She tried to check if Barclays had everything it needed,
and it said it would get in touch if it wanted anything more. But then it closed her account.
What happened
Mrs K opened a credit card with Barclays in 2020. Barclays said that in March 2021, it got in
touch with Mrs K to ask her to send documents to prove her income. It hadnt been able to
verify this automatically.
Mrs K went to a branch of Barclays to get some help with this request. She said that the
branch manager told her what was needed, and took copies of her payslips. She said she
then repeatedly tried to check with Barclays whether it had received everything it needed,
and it told her that it would get back in touch if it needed anything more. But it didnt. Instead,
it just closed her account.
Mrs K said shed taken out this card to build up her credit rating, and she said her credit
score would be much better now if this account had remained open. She wanted to stress
that she had taken her documents to Barclays, and said the branch scanned these in for her
and sent them off.
Mrs K was very upset that, although shed tried to make sure everything was ok, the account
was still closed. She has shown us the efforts she made to resolve this issue, including
sending documents to Barclays herself after it responded to her complaint. But none of this
made any difference.
Barclays accepts that it had confirmed it had Mrs Ks documents, and that it would be back
in touch if it needed anything further. But it then closed the account.
Barclays said it had closed Mrs Ks account because it had asked for eight consecutive
wage slips, but it received only six. It said the members of staff who told Mrs K that her
documents had been received werent the same as the people who made a decision about
whether her account could stay open. So the staff members Mrs K spoke to didnt know
about the problems with her documents.
Our investigator said it wasnt wrong for Barclays to ask Mrs K for proof of her income.
Lenders need to be able to show that they are responsible. Or in other words, Barclays
needed to be able to show that it had only lent Mrs K an amount of money she could afford
to pay back.
But our investigator didnt think Barclays had provided good customer service for Mrs K.
Shed gone into a branch to get help with the request. She was told that her documents were
under review and if there were any issues someone would be in touch. But no one did get in
touch, and Barclays now says that there isnt a way for the staff Mrs K was able to contact,
to actually find out if everythings ok.
Mrs Ks account was then closed. Our investigator said Barclays cant re-open a closed
account, so she couldnt make it do this for Mrs K. But she said Barclays should pay Mrs K
£175 for the upset this issue has caused.
Barclays accepted this, but Mrs K didnt. She wanted her account to be reopened, and she
said we were just fobbing her off. Mrs K still said that Barclays shouldnt have to reopen the
account, because it should never have been closed in the first place. She felt that what had
gone wrong here was racism, and said that if it wasnt, she wanted us to tell her what had
happened.
Our investigator asked Barclays whether it would be willing to open a new account for Mrs K.
Barclays said that, although it couldnt just reopen Mrs Ks account, it could support her
through a new application. It hoped that this would be successful for her, and replace her old
card with a new one. But if not, then it would remove all trace of the application from her
credit file, so she could be confident that she wouldnt be worse off as a result of the
application. And it would pay the £175 that our investigator suggested.
Mrs K didnt accept this. She said no one had explained to her why she was treated
differently to everyone else. She said Barclays own staff put together the documents that
Barclays asked for, so she knew everything was done correctly. And she said the branch
manager had done everything she could to help. But the staff who looked after credit cards
werent willing to help. She still thought that they had just wanted to close her account.
Mrs K wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by saying I do think that Barclays has done something wrong here, and I 
think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld.
Barclays said the problem started because Mrs K didnt supply the right documents. But 
Mrs K has told us that she received a considerable amount of support to provide this 
documentation, from the branch. So if Mrs K hadnt taken in all the payslips that 
Barclays wanted, she should have been told this at the time. And it doesnt look like she 
was.
Mrs K then tried to check if everything had been accepted by Barclays. Staff repeatedly 
told her that if there was a problem, then Barclays would come back to her. But it didnt 
do that. It just closed her account.
Mrs K was concerned that Barclays had always just wanted to close her account, and 
she said that this treatment might have been because of her race. She said if it wasnt 
racism, she wanted to know what had gone wrong.
What Mrs K is saying is that she thinks Barclays may have treated her unlawfully, on 
grounds of her race. But its not my role here to say whether a business has acted 
unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts.
What I have to do, is decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. As part of deciding that, I have to take a number of things into account, including 
the relevant law as well as what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. So although it would always be for the Courts to say if Barclays had broken the law on race discrimination, I do have to take that law into account when I think about what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has shown us that the checks it asked Mrs K to complete are something it asks 
of anyone whose income cant be verified by a credit reference agency. So I think that 
these checks would affect a range of people. It would affect people who have recently 
come to the UK, like Mrs K. But it would also affect those whove only recently started 
work (young people and those returning to the labour market after a break). And it would 
also affect people who are self-employed.
So quite a lot of people would be asked to submit extra documentation to prove their 
income. I dont think that the request Barclays made for Mrs Ks wage slips was 
because of Mrs Ks race, and I dont think it was unfair.
I think that Barclays then closed Mrs Ks account for two reasons.
The first reason is because it didnt get the documents it asked for  and Ive explained 
that I think this is mostly Barclays fault. Mrs K asked the branch for help, and she didnt 
get the help she needed.
The second reason is that Barclays doesnt have any system to ask again, if someone 
doesnt give it all the documents it wants. And thats poor service, which is also 
Barclays fault.
I hope it will reassure Mrs K to know that I havent seen anything to make me think that 
Barclays closed her account because of her race. But thats not the only sort of 
unfairness I have to consider here. And I do think that Barclays did let Mrs K down  it 
provided her with poor service. So Ive got to think about how this has affected Mrs K.
Mrs K has told us that she wanted to use this card account to build up her credit score. 
Shes shown us that she currently has an excellent credit score, close to the maximum 
possible. Mrs K said she thought this score would have been at the maximum if shed 
still had the Barclays card account.
Mrs K was hoping to apply for a mortgage. She also told us that she hasnt been able to 
go ahead with this, due to an injury which has forced her to take time off work. I 
understand that Mrs K is now starting to recover from this, and I hope shell continue to 
feel better.
I can see that Mrs K already has an extremely good credit score. And it doesnt seem as 
if the closure of her card with Barclays has prevented her from buying her own home, as 
those plans have unfortunately been delayed by her recent injury. So I think that, in 
these circumstances, the proposal that Barclays has put forward to allow Mrs K to apply 
for a new card could form part of a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, 
because it may well support Mrs K in continuing to build her credit score.
Because Mrs K is currently off work due to her injury, and this will naturally affect her 
income, Ill ask Barclays to hold this offer of supporting Mrs K through a new card 
application (and deleting all record of it from her credit file if the application fails) open 
for Mrs K for six months from the date of my final decision.
Ill also ask Barclays to pay a little more in compensation than our investigator 
suggested. I can see that Mrs K put considerable effort into making sure that her 
documents were accepted, and this card could stay open. It was clearly very important 
to her. And I think that Mrs K has been greatly disappointed by Barclays actions, and has found this deeply frustrating as well as very worrying. So Ill ask Barclays to pay Mrs 
K £250 in compensation, to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
Mrs K.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it had considered my suggestions, and it was happy to agree to those. And it 
said it would also do a little more for Mrs K. Id said it must remove any credit search from 
Mrs Ks credit file, if her application for a card was not successful. But Barclays said it would 
act to remove the credit search from her file whether she was successful or not. So only the 
original credit search, done when she first took out this card, would remain on Mrs Ks file. 
I agree this is an appropriate step for Barclays to take, and Ill include it in my award below.
Mrs K replied to say she was still very unhappy. She said Barclays had told her, and the 
manager of her local Barclays branch, that it would let her know if it needed more 
information, but it just closed the account. She wanted to know why. 
Mrs K also said she thought it was strange for Barclays to ask for proof of income, when her 
salary was paid directly into her account. Mrs K said she had more than enough payslips 
available to provide what Barclays had wanted. She said Barclays branch should have 
known how many payslips she had to send. 
Mrs K said shed taken out this card on a recommendation from her branch manager, to help 
with her credit score. She was upset that a PLC would treat its customers with complete 
disregard, and she said she would be taking advice about legal action for racism. 
I do understand why Mrs K remains unhappy. I still think it was reasonable for Barclays to 
ask for proof of income, and I think providing payslips offers reassurances as to the source 
of income that is being paid into a customers account. But, as my decision set out, Mrs K 
has received some very poor service from Barclays. I know she was concerned that this was 
on the grounds of her race. Although Ive sought to reassure her on that point, I realise how 
disappointing it must be to find that Barclays didnt provide her with the right service in 
branch (because it didnt send the right payslips). And that, in these circumstances, it just 
doesnt have any sort of system to put things right again, once they go wrong. 
Our service isnt a regulator, and I cant require Barclays to fix its systems, so that no one 
else faces the same problems as Mrs K in future. And of course, I cannot undo what has 
already been done. I can only try to provide a fair and reasonable outcome for Mrs K. And I 
think the outcome I now propose  of a payment of £250 in compensation, plus support to 
apply for a new credit card account, with the reassurance that this application will not impact 
on her credit file  does provide that for Mrs K. So Ill now make that decision.
Mrs K has told us she will be seeking advice on pursuing legal action instead. But if Mrs K 
does accept this decision, then it is binding on both her and the business, and may restrict 
her ability to take legal action on this issue. So Mrs K may wish to ensure that any advice 
she takes on future legal action covers the effect on her of accepting the decision and award 
I propose. Ill now make my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays hereafter) 
must, if Mrs K requests this within six months of my final decision, support Mrs K to make a 
fresh application for a Barclays credit card. Whether or not this application is successful, 
Barclays must remove all trace of this application from her credit file. And Barclays must pay 
Mrs K £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman