DRN-3024465
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Brents of Brentwood Ltds appointed representative didnt tell 
them that they had to pay for an Insurance Backed Guarantee for the piling of their self-build 
property, before the warranty they bought could be activated.  
What happened
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs H bought a self-build warranty for a property they were 
building. They bought it through Brents appointed representative, who I will refer to as A. 
At the end of 2019 the property was complete and Mr and Mrs H asked for the final 
certificates for the warranty to be issued. However they were told by A that they couldnt be 
issued until an Insurance Backed Guarantee (IBG) was purchased for the piling of the 
property. They provided a document from the contractor who carried out the piling, but A 
informed them this hadnt been accepted by the insurer. Instead Mr and Mrs H had to pay 
around £6,000 for the IBG, purchased through A.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy about this as they said they hadnt been told an IBG for the 
piling was necessary when they bought the warranty and it was only mentioned at the end. 
And they didnt think it was fair that their document wasnt accepted, without explanation as 
to why. They made a complaint to A. A didnt respond to their complaint in the required time 
frame, so Mr and Mrs H bought it to this service.
When our investigator contacted Brents about the complaint, it said that while the warranty 
was in Mr and Mrs Hs name, its contact for the sale had been their builder. And it said it had 
told the builder about the requirement for an IBG when it quoted for the warranty. It agreed it 
had provided poor service by not responding to Mr and Mrs Hs emails promptly and 
apologised for this. 
Our investigator considered this and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he 
was satisfied A had told Mr and Mrs Hs builder about the requirement for an IBG and it was 
the builders responsibility to tell them. So he thought A had done enough to make this clear. 
He agreed that A hadnt provided good service, particularly as it didnt provide an 
explanation for why the insurer hadnt accepted their document as an IBG. But he didnt 
think this was enough to warrant compensation.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, they said the requirement for an IBG wasnt included in the 
insurance document, which meant it wasnt made clear enough. They asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that as A were acting as an appointed representative of Brents, Brents 
is responsible for As actions. So if I find A got something wrong, it is Brents that would be 
responsible for putting things right. Which is why this complaint is against Brents.
Mr and Mrs H have two complaints about the circumstances  one against the insurer and 
this one against Brents, the broker. In this decision I am only considering the complaint 
against Brents, so Ill only consider its actions and not the details of the insurance contract 
itself, as the insurer is responsible for that. Because the two complaints are so closely linked, 
for complete clarity the issues I will consider as part of this complaint are as follows:
A, on behalf of Brents, didnt make the requirement for an IBG for piling clear when it 
sold the warranty to Mr and Mrs H.
A, on behalf of Brents, provided poor service. 
Ill address these in turn. 
Mr and Mrs H dont think its fair that A requested an IBG right at the end of the build. They 
say it hadnt mentioned this was a requirement of the warranty before this. A has provided 
the correspondence about the warranty when it was bought in September 2018. This was 
between it and Mr and Mrs Hs builder, who was acting on their behalf when purchasing the 
warranty. I can see that when A provided the documents it said:
Please find attached for your perusal
Subject to a full condition survey & recommendations, surveyor to sign off. IBG required for 
the foundations.
So while the requirement wasnt included in the document itself, I think A did enough to 
make it clear that this would be required, before the warranty was agreed. As Mr and 
Mrs Hs builder was arranging the warranty on their behalf, it was for him to pass on any 
information provided by A. But Im satisfied that A provided this information before the 
warranty was taken out. So I dont think A did anything wrong here.  
Mr and Mrs H have said that while A reference foundations in the above quoted email, it 
doesnt mention piling. So its not clear an IBG would be needed for their build. Piling 
describes foundations that are built more deeply, using long columns under the building to 
increase the effectiveness by reaching more sturdy ground lower down. So I think by 
referencing the foundations, A were clear that this would mean the piling, as this was how 
the foundations were built. Particularly as it was explaining this to Mr and Mrs Hs builder 
who would have greater knowledge than a lay person.
Mr and Mrs H have also complained about the service they received from A. From looking at 
the emails between A and Mr and Mrs H, I agree the service could have been better. In 
particular A didnt respond to them promptly and didnt explain why the document from the 
piling contractor wasnt accepted. While I can understand this would have been frustrating, A 
has apologised and I think this is enough in the circumstances. As even if it had provided a 
more full explanation about why the document hadnt been accepted, the outcome would still 
have been the same  Mr and Mrs H would have had to pay for an IBG. And while the 
delays would have caused Mr and Mrs H some distress, I dont think this is enough that it 
would warrant compensation.
For these reasons, I wont require Brents to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman