DRN-3770209
The complaint
Mr K complained that First Central Insurance Management Limited (First Central) mis-sold 
him a motor insurance policy as it didnt have No Claims Discount (NCD) protection when he 
came to make a claim. First Central acted as a broker for Mr K, so were responsible for the 
sale and administration of the policy.
What happened
Mr K made a claim on his policy via his broker, First Central. He said an unknown third-party 
damaged his car outside of his home. Mr K was unable to take the details of the vehicle or 
third-party as he was busy at the time. He reported the incident to the Police, but 
unfortunately, they have been unable to find the perpetrator.
As the details of the third-party were unknown the claim was recorded as a fault against Mr 
K and he lost a significant amount NCD that hed previously accrued. Mr K was unhappy on 
three points:
He was unhappy the claim had been recorded as a fault recorded against his name
He said the claim shouldnt have impacted his NCD
He wasnt made aware he didnt have NCD protection on his policy when he bought 
his policy.
First Central explained Mr K bought his policy via a comparison website and was given the 
option of purchasing NCD protection but chose not to. It also said its website provided 
further details around NCD protection and the policy documentation sent to Mr K covered all 
the information about his policy, including NCD protection.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought reasonable steps had been 
taken to draw Mr Ks attention to key information about his policy. Mr K disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 21 September 2022. I said:
Before I share my decision, I wanted to clarify that Mr K made his complaint against his 
broker, First Central, so I will only be able to consider the points Mr K made to First Central 
and those actions it was responsible for. Its responsibilities relate solely to the sale and 
administration of the policy.
Therefore, I cant look at the actions of Mr Ks insurer who was responsible for making 
decisions about the claim and chose to record the claim as a fault against Mr K. 
Unfortunately, I dont have jurisdiction to include this in my decision, as a complaint hasnt 
been made against the Insurer. However, its normal in the industry in these circumstances 
where the details of third-party are unknown, for the fault to be recorded against the insured 
party (in this case Mr K)  this is because the insurer hasnt been able to recover the full 
costs resulting from the incident. The insurer wouldnt necessarily be apportioning blame, 
just recording the incident in line with industry wide protocols.
I will consider the two complaint points that First Central are responsible for  claim shouldnt 
have impacted NCD / Mr K wasnt aware he had protection.
Our service thinks its important that the key terms of a policy are clearly set out when a 
policy is purchased. So, I have checked this is the case. First Central have set out the sales 
journey for this policy. It said:
The following question on the website is, "Would you like to protect your no-claims bonus?" 
with an option to select "yes" or "no", when either of these boxes are selected, a pop up box 
appears on the page and states the following, "No claims discount protection varies between 
insurance providers, but typically it allows you to make one or more claims before your 
number of No Claims Bonus years falls. No Claims Bonus protection does not protect the 
overall price of your insurance policy so the price of your insurance policy may increase 
following an accident, even if you weren't at fault".
First Centrals website sets out "If you have three or more years No Claims Discount (NCD) 
you are eligible to protect it when you set up your insurance with us. Our guaranteed No 
Claims Discount (NCD) Protection means regardless of how many claims you make over the 
next 12 months your NCD will not be reduced. NCD Protection can't be added on during the 
policy year, only at the start of a new year, and it doesn't protect the overall price of your 
insurance. The price of your insurance policy may increase following an accident even if it 
wasn't your fault."
First Central said Once your policy was purchased, all your documents were issued to you 
via your online portal which showed all the information about your policy. On your Statement 
of Fact document issued to you on the 30th September 2021, it shows your No Claims 
Discount is not protected, and within the box is shows "No".
We also issued your "Motor Insurance Schedule" on the 30th September 2021, this 
document also shows your No Claims Discount entitlement is 11 years and states that you 
do not have protected No Claims Discount.
I have reviewed the sales journey and I think its clear that Mr K chose not to purchase the 
NCD protection. I think First Central has also clearly signposted this key term in the 
documentation it sent Mr K and explained further about NCD on its website. Therefore, I 
think it has been reasonable in its approach. I think Mr K should reasonably have been 
aware he didnt have NCD protection. And I think he should reasonably have been aware 
that had he made a claim, this was likely to impact his NCD. Therefore, I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K didnt respond to my provisional decision.
First Central accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require First Central Insurance 
Management Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman