DRN-4456655
The complaint
Ms L complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to assist her when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms L had a timeshare she no longer wanted; she had been trying to get rid of it 
since 2016. In that month, she was cold-called by a third party firm which I will call X. X 
persuaded her that it could get rid of her timeshare for her, and so she paid X £7,115 for its 
services, in two debit card payments from her RBS current account. She signed a contract 
with X.
After that, Ms L heard nothing further from X, and she eventually concluded that she had 
been scammed. Her suspicions were confirmed when she researched the company online 
and discovered a large number of negative reviews. (She had previously researched the 
company and found nothing out of the ordinary.)
In February 2022 Ms L asked RBS for a refund of the payments. RBS asked her for further 
evidence to support her claim, but on receiving no reply it closed her case in April 2022.
In February 2023 Ms L made a second claim to RBS, this time represented by a claims 
management company (CMC). RBS did not uphold her claim. The CMC then complained 
on her behalf. In particular, it said that RBS had failed to intervene at any point to prevent 
Ms L from paying X, or to warn her of the risks. It referred to the judgement of the Court of 
Appeal in Philipp v Barclays Bank Plc, and said that RBS had been under a duty to enquire 
into the reasons for the payments she was making and to protect her. It argued that RBS 
had failed in its duty of care. In support of that point, it suggested that the payments had 
been unusual activity on Ms Ls account, and that this should have triggered its intervention.
RBS apologised for some customer service failings on some phone calls (Ms L having said 
that the calls went on for too long and that the staff were impersonal). But apart from that, 
RBS said it had done nothing wrong, and it did not uphold the rest of her complaint. In 
particular, it said that the payments had been authorised by Ms L, and the fact that no 
additional checks had been triggered by the banks systems did not mean that a banking 
error had occurred. Being dissatisfied with that response, Ms L brought this complaint to our 
service, again represented by the CMC.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the payments had been 
authorised, and that they had not been particularly out of the ordinary; he pointed out that 
there had also been a payment of over £9,000 earlier in that same month. So he did not 
agree that RBS should have been suspicious. He said there had been nothing about the 
payments to suggest that they were not being made to a legitimate company. He said that 
Xs contract had said that it could take up to twelve months for it to complete its service, and 
when Ms L had first approached RBS this time had not run out. So it had been too soon for 
RBS to attempt to raise a chargeback dispute. He also thought that it had been reasonable 
of RBS to close Ms Ls case when she did not provide the further evidence it had asked for. 
Then a year later, when Ms L had approached RBS for the second time, it had been too late 
to raise a chargeback, the time limit having expired.
The investigator also said that there was no evidence that X had actually failed to provide 
the service Ms L had paid it for. Ms L did not know whether she still had the timeshare or 
not, and the timeshare company had not made any further demands for payment. So he said 
there was no proof that Ms L had not got what she had paid for. He concluded that RBS had 
done nothing wrong.
The CMC did not accept that decision. It said that Ms L had not just paid X to get her out of 
the timeshare agreement, but also to recover the £15,000 she had paid to the timeshare 
company. Since she had not got back a penny, X had failed to fulfil its obligations. It added 
that the other large payments Ms L had made from her RBS account were not related to the 
payments to X and were therefore irrelevant. It argued that RBS should have intervened to 
ask Ms L tailored questions, which would then have uncovered the fraud which was being 
perpetrated on her, and then the payments need not have been made. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Introduction
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I accept that X did not provide the service that Ms L paid it for. On the balance of 
probabilities, X and the timeshare company are most likely the same people, and they 
tricked her into making the two payments in May 2021.
However, RBS is not automatically liable for that, so I need to decide whether RBS did 
anything wrong. Firstly, I will consider whether RBS should have stopped the payments. 
Then I will consider whether RBS should have done more that it did to try to get them back.
Should RBS have intervened when the payments were made?
By now, the CMC will be aware that the Supreme Court has overruled the decision of the 
Court of Appeal in Philipp.1 I have taken the Supreme Courts judgement into account.
The duty the CMC described only applies to a bank in cases where a payment is not being 
made by a customer directly, but on the customers behalf by another person who is acting, 
or who purports to be acting, as the customers agent. Where the circumstances are such 
that the bank has reason to suspect that the person making the payment is not really acting 
on the customers authority, or is exceeding that authority, then the bank has a duty to 
inquire into the matter and to satisfy itself that the payment is duly authorised by its 
customer. But in this case, Ms L authorised the payments herself, so Philipp does not apply.
The banks duty is therefore to carry out its customers instructions and make the payment. 
There is no general duty of a bank to protect a customer from making a risky or unwise 
payment. I would nevertheless expect a bank to give general warnings or advice to 
customers about the risks of being scammed, but I would not expect RBS to go as far as the 
CMC has argued it should, and to pause Ms Ls payments and ask her questions about 
them.
1 [2023] UKSC 25Sometimes a banks systems will flag a suspicious transaction for review or for further 
security checks if it looks as though it might not have been authorised by the account holder. 
But that is not the same thing as what is being complained about here: a payment authorised 
by Ms L, albeit one that she was tricked into making. The bank was under no duty to inquire 
into why she was making the payment; it only needed to be satisfied that it was carrying out 
Ms Ls instructions, and it was. (There is an exception to this: good banking practice is to ask 
questions when a payment is being made over the counter in a branch, but that was not the 
method of payment here.)
I am therefore of the view that RBS did nothing wrong by executing Ms Ls payment 
instructions. (I have not needed to consider the other payments she had made earlier in May 
2021.)
Did RBS do enough to try to get Ms Ls money back?
Ms L asked RBS for her money back in February 2022, and again in February 2023. I will 
consider each of these occasions in turn.
Ms L made her payments by debit card, so the only remedy she had with RBS was the 
chargeback scheme.2
In considering whether to raise a chargeback dispute, I would expect RBS to ask for certain 
evidence, such as the terms of Ms Ls contract with X. Indeed, a chargeback dispute would 
be unlikely to succeed without such evidence. So without it, RBS had no realistic option but 
to close Ms Ls case.
Nevertheless, I have read the contract, and it says that X may take no longer than 12 
months to complete its service. As that time had not yet expired, I think that a chargeback 
could not have succeeded earlier than May 2022. 
A chargeback might have succeeded after that, but by February 2023 it was too late to raise 
one. So I dont think there was anything else RBS could have done to assist Ms L with 
recovering her money. It was under no obligation to pro-actively contact her in May 2022 or 
shortly afterwards to ask her if she wanted to try again, nor is that normal banking practice.
For all of the above reasons, I do not think that RBS did anything wrong, or that it needed to 
do anything differently.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023 (the CMC may respond on her behalf). But 
apart from that, this final decision brings our involvement in this case to an end.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
2 Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 does not apply to debit card payments. The Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code does not apply to card payments.