DRN-4356464
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs H holds, jointly with three other borrowers, with 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. There are several elements to Mrs Hs complaint  
Ill detail them below  which relate primarily to how Halifax has treated her since she left the 
property in 2009.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 5 September 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of the dispute are known to Mrs H and Halifax. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with both parties to the dispute, and so I dont need to repeat the 
details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The background to the complaint is that Mrs H entered into the mortgage as one of 
four joint borrowers; the other three are her husband, her sister and her brother-in-
law. Mrs H has told us that shes not lived in the mortgaged property since 2009, and 
has been the victim of abuse from the other borrowers in the intervening years. Mrs S 
has also told us that her husband is responsible for making the mortgage payments, 
and when he fails to do so on time, Halifax reports this on her credit file, which she 
thinks is unfair. Mrs H wants Halifax to remove her from the mortgage.
Thats the historical context to the complaint; more specifically, our investigator 
identified twelve elements to the complaint, covered by various final responses that 
Halifax has issued from time to time. Summarised in my own words, these are:
1. Mrs H has issues with the circumstances in which the mortgage was taken out by 
her and the three other borrowers.
2. Despite her separation from her husband in 2009, Halifax wont remove her from 
the mortgage without the consent of the three other borrowers.
3. Mrs H is concerned at how her husband is running the mortgage; she thinks hes 
in breach of the mortgage contract and that this will impact on her.
4. The three other borrowers have been hostile and subjected her to abuse, but 
Halifax hasnt addressed this.
5. Mrs H is unhappy that Halifax allows her husband to make changes to the 
mortgage without consulting her; she says he should ask her permission for 
changes so that she can negotiate her removal from the mortgage.
6. Mrs H is unhappy about the information Halifax reports on her credit file.
7. Halifax reported incorrect information on her credit file, corrected it, but didnt tell 
her about the error.
8. Halifax gave out Mrs Hs personal data to a third party in 2009.
9. Halifax has shared Mrs Hs personal information internally without her consent.
10. In material she received in response to a data subject access request (DSAR) 
Mrs H noted that one of the three other borrowers had received a refund as a 
result of a payment mix-up. She wants more information about this.
11. Mrs H believes two mortgages have been mixed up and wants clarification.
12. Halifax has told Mrs H some of her complaint issues are out of time.
Other than some service failings, for which she considered it had offered reasonable 
compensation, our investigator wasnt persuaded Halifax had treated Mrs H unfairly 
overall. Shes asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  - and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive set out my conclusions and the reasons for them below, using 
the numbered headings I used in the above summary. The investigator grouped 
some of the individual points together, where they related to a common theme. That 
was a reasonable approach, and I have done something broadly similar, albeit with 
slightly different groupings, for reasons that will become apparent. 
Points 2 to 5
The investigator included point 1 in this group; I havent done so, and will explain why 
later in this decision. 
At the heart of elements 2 to 5 of the complaint is the breakdown in the relationships 
between Mrs H and her three co-borrowers, after the mortgage was taken out. I can 
tell from considering everything she has said and provided, that this is a deeply 
sensitive and complex situation, and that Mrs H feels extremely vulnerable as a 
result. The difficulty for Halifax is that where personal relationships within a mortgage 
break down, a lender cant simply remove one borrower because they want to be 
removed.
First of all, its a situation for the borrowers to resolve between them, and that might 
require the involvement of intermediaries  for example, solicitors - if direct 
communication is difficult or uncomfortable. Essentially, however, the parties need to 
agree collectively on who should remain on the mortgage and who should be 
released from it. At the same time, it would be normal practice for a similar 
agreement to be reached on who should stay on, or be released from, the title to the 
mortgaged property. If all the parties to the mortgage are able to do that, those proposing to stay on the 
mortgage then need to apply formally to take over the mortgage (and the property 
title) and the lender  so Halifax in this case  will then assess the application by 
reference to its lending criteria and its regulatory obligations. So even if Mrs H gets to 
the stage where she and the three other borrowers can agree on an exit strategy for 
her, and a formal application is submitted to Halifax by the three other borrowers, it 
wont be a foregone conclusion that Halifax must agree.
But unless and until that happens, Halifax is reasonably entitled to continue treating 
Mrs H as a joint borrower alongside the three other borrowers. That means she has 
the same joint and several liability for the mortgage payments, with all the 
implications that go with that (including credit file reporting, which Ill get to shortly). It 
also means Mrs H is entitled to the same degree of fair treatment as the three other 
borrowers, which Ill also get to in due course.
Points 6 and 7
The starting point here is, as Ive already explained above, Mrs H is jointly and 
severally liable, alongside the three other borrowers, for the mortgage payments, and 
Halifax has both the right and the obligation, to report accurate information about the 
payment record on all four borrowers individual credit files. Thats the case even if in 
practical terms the payments are made by only one of the three other borrowers. 
Clearly, that creates a potential difficulty for Mrs H because it places her in a situation 
where something outside her control - i.e. her husbands actions in making the 
payment - can result in adverse information being recorded on her credit file. 
But that doesnt mean Halifaxs reporting on Mrs Hs credit file is inherently unfair. Its 
something that Halifax must do all the time Mrs H remains a joint borrower. Im not in 
a position to say if Halifax has reported anything factually inaccurate on Mrs Hs 
credit file, because I havent seen a copy of it. But in terms of the complaint about 
credit file reporting as it has been articulated to date, there arent any grounds for me 
to find that Halifax has treated Mrs H unfairly.
Point 8 to 11
The investigator included point 12 in this group; I havent done so, and will explain 
why later in this decision. 
At the heart of points 8 to 11 of the complaint is how Halifax has managed Mrs Hs 
personal data. Generally speaking, we take the view that this is something thats 
better dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and I can see that 
she has engaged with the ICO on some of her data concerns. I dont think it would be 
right for me to second guess or otherwise interfere with any investigations being 
carried out by the ICO into some or all of Mrs Hs data management concerns. 
Other matters
Ill cover points 1 and 12 of the complaint in this section.
We arent free to deal with every complaint we receive. Were bound by our rules  
which in turn flow from legislation  that set out the types of complaints we can look 
at. Those rules are maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and are 
published in the FCAs Handbook, under the heading DISP. Section 2 of DISP sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It 
covers such things as who is bringing the complaint, what its about, which business 
its about and, crucially, time limits on how long after a person becomes aware of a 
problem they can wait before complaining about it. 
Theres no issue on the first three aspects of our jurisdiction I referenced in the 
preceding paragraph. Mrs H is a consumer and therefore eligible to complain to us. 
The subject matter of this complaint  the operation of a loan secured by a mortgage 
on land  is an activity we can look into, and Halifax is covered by our scheme. The 
issue I need to address here is with the time limits in our rules.
Our rules say that, unless the business consents, or there are exceptional 
circumstances, I cant consider a complaint that is referred to our service:
a) more than six months after the final response letter or summary resolution 
communication; or
b) more than six years after the events complained of; or
c) more than three years after the consumer knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, there was cause to complain
unless, in the case of b) and c) above, there is a written acknowledgement of a 
complaint having been made within the time limits.
As stated above, our rules only allow us to look into events that happened in the six 
years immediately preceding the start date of the complaint. Theres a provision in 
our rules for two exceptions to that, and Ill cover those in due course. But in the first 
instance, the various elements of this complaint started in 2020, which means we can 
only look into events that happened since 2014.
In point 1 of the complaint, Mrs H has referenced events going back as far as 2003 
when the mortgage was taken out. It is for this reason that I considered it necessary 
to clarify the limits on my remit to determine the merits of the complaint. 
I mentioned a moment ago that our rules include a provision for two exceptions, and 
Ill cover those now. 
The first exception is what is known as the three-year rule. The second exception is 
where there is a written record or some other acknowledgement of a complaint 
having been made within the time limits in our rules.
We can look into events that happened more than six years before a complaint 
started, if we are satisfied that the consumer only knew (or could reasonably have 
known) that they had grounds for complaint less than three years before they first 
raised the complaint. So that means I have to think about when Mrs H could  or 
should  have raised the complaint about the origination of the mortgage in 2003. 
Its not always easy to assess when a consumer might reasonably have known for 
the first time about the issue(s) or event(s) that theyre complaining about, thus 
starting the three-year clock running. The rules we follow dont just require me to 
consider what a consumer did know; I have to take account of what they ought 
reasonably to have known, and when they should have known it. Also, Mrs H didnt 
need to know of all of her complaint points, just that something might have gone 
wrong and that Halifax might be to blame.Ive seen extracts from Halifaxs archived notes that Mrs H contacted it in August 
2009 to allege that the mortgage might have taken out fraudulently and that she 
intended going to the police. The notes from the time indicate that Halifax didnt treat 
this as a complaint as such, but that a message would be left for the Retail Fraud 
team to look into as a possible case of identity theft. 
Whether or not Halifax recorded this contact as a complaint, I think its fair to say that 
it was an expression of dissatisfaction on Mrs Hs part, which means that it would 
meet the definition of a complaint as set out in DISP. That means that in August 
2009, Mrs H effectively complained about the circumstances in which the mortgage 
had been taken out. What I then have to decide is whether that was less or more 
than six years after the mortgage started. 
The available evidence suggest it was more. I say that because Halifax has provided 
an extract from what is either the application form or offer for the mortgage, bearing 
Mrs Hs signature, and it is dated 31 January 2003. Added to that, the mortgage 
statement issued in May 2019 referred to a remaining term of nine years; i.e. ending 
in May 2028. That would correspond with a 25-year mortgage starting in May 2003. 
Working on the premise that the mortgage started in May 2003, Mrs Hs expression 
of dissatisfaction in August 2009 about the possibility of the mortgage having been 
taken out fraudulently is a complaint, and Halifaxs note is a written record of it having 
been made. It looks to have been made outside the six-year time limit, so I need to 
consider if it was made within the three-year time limit.
To assess that, Ive gone to Mrs Hs comments to our investigator in her email of 
3 February 2023. The essence of this email is that Mrs H describes how she believed 
she was being added to the title of the property in 2003 without realising she was, 
effectively being hoodwinked into joining the mortgage as well. Taking into account 
the wider domestic environment Mrs H has described herself as being in, Im inclined 
to give Mrs H the benefit of the doubt here and say that Im not sure I can safely 
conclude that she was, or could reasonably have been, aware that she was a full 
party to the mortgage (as well as the property) three years before she contacted 
Halifax in August 2009. 
That being the case, point 1 of this complaint is not time-barred. The investigator was 
right to address it on its merits, and I can also see why she grouped it alongside 
points 2 to 5, insofar as it goes more to the relationship and interaction between the 
four parties to the mortgage than it does to the actions of Halifax as lender. 
I separated it out in order to clarify the jurisdiction aspect first, and whilst my 
conclusion is that point 1 of the complaint is not time-barred under our rules, it 
remains the case that it is about events that happened twenty years ago. Its also, as 
Ive said, less about what Halifax did  or didnt do - when providing the mortgage 
and more about what the four borrowers did  or didnt do - when applying for it. 
Its unlikely that the Financial Ombudsman Service could get to the bottom of how 
Mrs H came to be a party to the mortgage in 2003 without hearing testimony from the 
three other borrowers. We have no power to compel evidence from them, and even if 
they were willing to provide testimony, its not clear to me that anything they might 
say would allow me to reach a reliable conclusion on whether it was reasonable or 
otherwise of Halifax to provide the mortgage to all four parties. Overall, I think point 1 
of Mrs Hs complaint, like points 2-5, is something for Mrs H to resolve with the three 
other borrowers.Point 12 is, in itself, about Halifax saying Mrs H has brought parts of her complaint 
out of time. Im talking here not about the six-year/three-year time limit, but the 
six-month time limit after a business has dealt with a complaint.  
As I mentioned earlier, Mrs H began complaining in 2020, and Halifax has issued a 
series of final responses between 2020 and 2022. Mrs Hs first contact with us was 
on 11 April 2022, which means that under the six-month provision in our rules, we 
can only consider elements of her complaint that were covered in final responses 
issued after 11 October 2021. 
The issue of Mrs H wanting to be removed from the mortgage was addressed in a 
final response dated 4 December 2020. In the normal course of events, that would 
mean it was time-barred, but Halifax has consented to us looking at it, which is why 
the investigator, and then I, have been able to make a finding on that issue.
The issue of credit file reporting was dealt with in a final response dated 22 March 
2021; thats also more than six months before Mrs H contacted us. However, it was 
covered again in a final response Halifax issued on 30 March 2022, in terms that I 
am satisfied renewed referral rights to this service. Thats why the investigator, and 
then I, have been able to make a finding on this issue.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. Ive also had to limit my findings to those matters 
which fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I can see from 
her submissions how important this is to Mrs H. Thats a natural reaction, and entirely 
understandable when youre as close to a situation as she is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that 
means stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is 
fair, reasonable and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also 
means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes 
up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments. 
That time has now passed; Halifax hasnt provided any further comment in response to the 
provisional decision. Mrs H has left a telephone message to say she is unwell and needs 
more time to provide further information.
I addressed the issue of additional time in my provisional decision. Mrs H first told us she 
intended submitting more information for the reviewing ombudsman to consider after the 
investigator gave her informal view of the complaint. That was in May of this year; we kept 
progress on the case in abeyance for Mrs H to do that, but despite numerous reminders, 
Mrs H kept declining to provide the information.
Overall fairness means we cannot leave cases open indefinitely; aside from the impact it has 
on this services finite resources, there is another party to the complaint, and we have to 
treat both with equal fairness. I cant conclude that we havent given Mrs H ample 
opportunity to argue her case. She has been already had four months in which to provide 
her final submission before the case is determined.
Furthermore, our enabling legislation, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, provides 
at section 225 that we are required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality.Thats why, when the case came to me for review, I made it very clear in my provisional 
decision  which, to be clear, didnt depart form the investigators recommended outcome in 
any way but merely explained it with more precision  that that no further extensions of time 
would be granted to either side. Ive no reason to depart from that position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be changing my decision, for the same reasons as given in my 
provisional decision, which are repeated above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman