DRN-3727238
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and their decision to reduce the 
cash settlement amount for her damaged TV after shed already accepted a higher offer.
What happened
Mrs B held a Home Insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral. This policy included cover for 
the contents of Mrs Bs home. In July 2022, Mrs B contacted Admiral to make a claim on this 
policy for her damaged TV. This claim was accepted, and Admiral initially offered Mrs B the 
choice of a cash settlement worth £1,417.67 or a voucher worth £1,549. Mrs B accepted the 
cash settlement offer.
But shortly after, Admiral made Mrs B aware they would only provide her with a cash 
settlement of £1,000, as this was the policy limit for a single, unspecified High-Risk item. Mrs 
B was unhappy the cash settlement offer had been reduced and so, she raised a complaint. 
Mrs B didnt think Admiral were fair to reduce the cash settlement offer, as shed already 
been offered and accepted a higher amount. So, she thought Admiral should honour the 
original offer.
Admiral responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted they had mis-informed Mrs 
B by providing her with a cash settlement offer without ensuring this offer fell in line with the 
terms of the policy she held. So, they offered Mrs L £30 to recognise the upset this caused. 
But they thought Mrs L was only entitled to £1,000 as the TV wasnt specified as a high-risk 
item. So, they didnt think they were obliged to pay Mrs B the cash settlement offer she 
originally accepted. Mrs B remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think Admirals terms 
and conditions made it reasonably clear to Mrs B that she would need to specify her TV as a 
high-risk item. And so, they didnt think it was fair for Admiral to cap the cash settlement to 
£1,000 because of this. So, they thought Admiral should pay the cash settlement Mrs B 
originally accepted.
Mrs B accepted this recommendation. But Admiral didnt. They thought the policy terms and 
conditions made it reasonably clear audio-visual equipment were classed as high-risk items. 
So, they thought it was reasonable to expect Mrs B to specify her TV, as they thought a TV 
fell under the audio-visual description. And because of this, they thought the £1,000 
settlement limit set out within the policy applied and that they were fair to reduce Mrs Bs 
settlement offer on this basis. As Admiral didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
When considering this complaint, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy at 
length to decide whether I think Admiral acted in line with these when deciding to reduce the 
settlement offer. And if I think they did, I must then also be satisfied that they acted fairly by 
doing so. And having done so, I dont think they have on this occasion.
Ive seen the definition of a high-risk item, which states the following:
The following personal belongings owned by you and your family.
-Any collectible articles which are rare or unusual
-Musical instruments or audio-visual, photographic or sporting equipment
-Computers, laptops, mobile phones, tablets and electronic notebooks
-Jewellery, watches, pearls, precious metals or precious stones
-Pictures, prints or works of art, Stamp, coin or other collections.
And I can see the terms and conditions explain that for any items that fall into the category 
above, the settlement will be capped at £1,000 unless they are specified within the policy 
schedule. Having looked at the policy schedule, I cant see any items are specified. 
So, because of this, I note Admiral believe the settlement reduction was fair, and in line with 
the terms set out above. But for me to agree, I need to be satisfied that the terms make it 
reasonably clear to Mrs B exactly what items would need to be specified. And I dont think it 
is reasonably clear that her TV fell into the category of a high-risk item here.
I understand why Admiral believe the TV falls into the category of audio-visual equipment as 
a TV does produce both sound and picture. But in the terms Ive quoted above, directly after 
audio-visual equipment is mentioned, it goes on to list several items that are audio-visual in 
the same way a TV would be. Yet within this list, a TV isnt stated. I think this creates a 
certain level of confusion and I dont think its unreasonable for a customer to expect a TV to 
be stated within this list, alongside the other electrical appliances.
I appreciate Admiral has pointed out that on a separate page of the policy booklet, a 
definition of audio-visual equipment is provided and within this television sets are referred 
to. But as this definition is placed in another part of the booklet, I dont think its fair for 
Admiral to say Mrs B should then relate this definition back to another term in a completely 
different area of the terms and conditions, that she would already have read past.
So, while I can understand why Admiral believe the settlement limit is applicable in this case, 
I dont think the terms and conditions were clear enough to allow Mrs B to have fair and 
reasonable knowledge that the TV shouldve been specified. And so, I dont think Admiral 
have acted fairly when reducing Mrs Bs settlement amount, when an increased original 
settlement offer had been both made and accepted.
Putting things right
As I dont think Admiral acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think Admiral should do to 
put things right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs B back in the position 
she wouldve been in, had Admiral acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, I think if it had been made reasonably clear to Mrs B within the terms and 
conditions, or in some other way, that the TV needed to be specified, she would most likely have done so. I think its fair for me to make this assumption as I can see she has specified 
a bicycle within a separate section of the policy schedule. 
And if Mrs B had specified the TV as a high-risk item, she wouldve been paid the original 
cash settlement amount that Admiral offered which I also must take into account was offered 
to Mrs B and accepted initially. So, considering both of these points, I think Admiral should 
pay Mrs B the original cash settlement Admiral offered to her, which was calculated based 
on the actual value of the TV that was insured and damaged. 
My final decision
For the reasons outline above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs B the original cash settlement amount that was offered to her, which she 
accepted, that was based on the TVs full value without any policy limitations.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman