DRN-4299671
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc took too long to release the funds 
from her savings accounts when it decided to end its banking relationship with her.
What happened
Nat West wrote to Mrs R in May 2022 giving her notice that it was going to end its banking 
relationship with her and that she had until July 2022 to make alternative arrangements. Mrs 
R arranged to switch her current account to another bank but she didnt realise that the 
funds in three savings accounts with Nat West wouldnt be included in the switch. 
Mrs R held £120,000 in her savings accounts and ceased to have access to that money from 
July 2022. It took until 4 November 2022 for the funds to be released to her. Nat West 
accepted that there had been some unnecessary delay and offered her £100 compensation, 
which Mrs R declined.
Mrs R said that she had some large bills to pay and not having the available funds caused 
her to become ill through stress. She also had to borrow money from friends which was 
embarrassing. In addition, her friends had charged her 1% per month interest on the loans 
made to her. Our investigator looked at Mrs Rs circumstances and thought that a more 
appropriate level of compensation would be £1,000 for distress and inconvenience and that 
Nat West should reimburse the interest payments that Mrs R had incurred on the loans.
Nat West agreed in principle and has paid Mrs R the £1,000. However, before making the 
payment for interest on the loans, it required more evidence that Mrs R had actually paid it.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained I was thinking of upholding the 
complaint and thought that compensation of £1,000 was fair. However, I didnt think Nat 
West should have to reimburse any interest payments as Mrs R hadnt provided sufficient 
evidence to prove she had paid her friends back with interest.
Nat West accepted my provisional findings. Mrs R didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated in my provisional decision, as both parties accepted the investigators 
recommendation of £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience, I dont need to 
look at that any further.
The issue at hand is whether Mrs R has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that she 
had indeed been charged 1% interest on her loans.
My provisional decision set out the inconsistencies in the information provided to us by Mrs 
R. She first told us that she had paid the money back with interest and provided some 
evidence that seemed to corroborate that. But when asked for more specific details, she 
then told us that shed had a change of circumstances which meant she hadnt been able to 
pay any of the money back at all. She also provided more evidence which seemed to 
support that alternative scenario. As such, my provisional decision was that I was unable to 
rely on the information that had been provided and I hadnt seen enough to be persuaded 
that there was any agreement in place to pay her friends 1% interest.
As Mrs R hasnt responded further, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint and require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay Mrs R £1,000 compensation. As it has already done this, I am not asking it 
to do anything more.
National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to reimburse any interest payments on the 
money that Mrs R borrowed from her friends.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman