DRN-2746592
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was 
about eight years old and had already completed about 54,000 miles so I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have some wear and tear. But I dont think theres a suggestion 
that the fuel pump failed due to wear and tear  I think thats unlikely.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But if the fault happened after six months 
the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present or developing at the point 
of supply.
Here the fault appears to have occurred only a few days after the six-month period elapsed, 
but Im persuaded the fuel pump was probably failing when the car was supplied. I say that 
as Mr W had only completed a few thousand miles in the car and the presence of swarf in 
the system would suggest the fuel pump had been breaking down for a time. I also note that 
the dealership were prepared to provide spare parts free of charge and I dont think they 
would have done that if they didnt believe the fault was their responsibility to resolve.
Mr W diagnosed the fuel pump fault and attempted the repair himself. Hes a qualified 
automotive mechanic so I dont think that was unreasonable, but I wouldnt think it fair to 
hold the business responsible for any damage he may have caused whilst completing the 
repair.
Im persuaded he didnt cause any damage as I think its now clear that the injectors were 
damaged by swarf that had come from the breakdown of components in the failing fuel 
pump. Thats a view thats supported by the expert independent engineer. He said, we do 
feel that some swarf may have found its way through into the injectors causing the failure.
Mr W has explained that when he told the dealership about the fuel pump failure he also 
explained there was metal swarf in the system and that he was concerned the injectors may 
also be damaged. I can see he also told MotoNovo about that. In their final response to      
Mr W they say, During your initial callyou explained that the failed fuel pump had caused 
metal pieces to get into the injectors. 
So, I think its therefore likely that the fuel pump was failing at the point the car was supplied 
and that its subsequently become clear that the fuel pump failure caused damage to all the 
injectors.  I think these are problems that MotoNovo should fairly take responsibility for. 
Putting things right
Mr W wants MotoNovo to refund the cost of the injectors and I think its fair for MotoNovo to 
do so. Hes already incurred costs to have some of these injectors replaced and MotoNovo 
should refund those costs, and costs for any remaining injectors, on provision of the receipts 
from Mr W. Theyll need to add interest to that refund as Mr W has been deprived of that 
money.
Mr W has also incurred costs for a secondary fuel pump and has had to replace the battery 
on the car as a consequence of it sitting unused for so long. The business should also 
refund these costs on provision of the receipts and, again, theyll need to add interest to that 
refund.
The car broke down on 23 March 2020 and Mr W has had impaired use of it since then. His 
enjoyment of the car will also have been impaired, and I think, on balance, MotoNovo should 
therefore refund 10% of the finance instalments hes paid since 23 March 2020 in respect of 
lack of use and loss of enjoyment. They should add interest to that refund.
Mr W has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. I think the matter could have been 
resolved much earlier and in the meantime Mr W has had to provide information to support 
the independent assessment and has had to escalate his concerns to this service. In the 
circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay him £200 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
refund any costs Mr W has, or will, incur to replace all the injectors, on provision of 
receipts from Mr W. Add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund the cost of £25 for the secondary fuel pump and £186 for the replacement 
battery and add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund 10% of all monthly instalments Mr W has paid since March 2020 in respect of 
lack of use and loss of enjoyment. Add 8% simple interest per year to this refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr W £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman