DRN-3023084
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold a Privilege Account (PA) in August 2006 by The Co-
operative Bank Plc (Co-op).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that he didnt know about fee free accounts when he was sold the PA. He says he 
wasnt told about the benefits and later he didnt know he had a fee-paying account.
Co-op says that it sold the PA to Mr C on an information only basis and it provided full 
information to Mr C at the time.
I wasnt present when the PA was sold, so I can only make my decision based on the 
evidence available now.
Co-op had provided evidence that Mr C had a fee free account before he took out the PA. 
And fee free accounts were widely available and advertised at the time. So, although I dont 
doubt Mr Cs honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that he knew he had a 
choice whether to take out the PA and he chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence such as a review of Mr Cs circumstances to show that Co-op 
advised Mr C to take out the PA. And this service has evidence that Co-op generally sold 
accounts on a non-advised basis at the time. So, I think its more likely than not that Co-op 
sold the PA to Mr C on an information only basis. 
The requirement on Co-op therefore was to provide enough information about the PA to Mr 
C to make an informed decision about buying it.
And I think it did. I say this because Co-op has provided evidence that it sent the introductory 
letter with all the information to Mr Cs correct address at the time of sale. And Mr C 
immediately benefitted from a fee free overdraft hed not had before, avoiding expensive 
charges for going overdrawn.
Co-op has also provided evidence that it sent Mr C copious correspondence about changes 
to fees, benefits and terms and conditions over the time he had it. Mr C couldve closed the 
account at any time but didnt for many years.
So, in my view, I think its more likely than not that Co-op didnt do anything wrong in this 
sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman