DRN-3132379
The complaint
Mr S complains about a guarantor loan provided to him by TFS Loans Limited, (TFS), 
which he says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this Service on Mr Ss behalf 
by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being 
taken by Mr S. 
  
What happened
TFS provided Mr S with a loan of £5,000 in April 2015. The loan was secured by a guarantor 
who would be responsible for repaying it if Mr S failed to make his repayments. The interest 
rate was 27.9%, (48.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 72 monthly repayments of 
around £186. If Mr S made each repayment when it was due, he would pay £13,376.16 in 
total. The loan was repaid in July 2020. Mr S said that the loan was needed to repay a loan 
from a friend.
Mr S said that TFS had failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. Had one 
been carried out, it wouldnt have provided a loan to him.
In its final response letter, TFS concluded that it wasnt upholding Mr Ss complaint. Its letter 
set out details of the information provided to it by Mr S. In a call between the parties, Mr S 
had given information about his regular expenditure. He also provided a payslip. TFS 
calculated that Mr S had a monthly disposable income of over £430 (after the loan 
repayment had been made) to cover any unforeseen costs should they arise. It said this 
deemed the loan affordable. TFS also carried out a credit check and said that the 
information obtained both from Mr S and on his credit search showed he had no current 
problems managing credit. So, it didnt believe it was reasonable or proportionate to also 
request evidence of Mr Ss expenditure, given that the remaining disposable income 
calculated was consistent with the information currently showing on his credit file. TFS also 
noted that Mr S had made all payments apart from one to the loan on time. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He didnt think 
the information TFS based its lending decision on was consistent with the other information it 
had about Mr S. He said that the fact that Mr S needed to borrow a large loan to repay a 
friend he owed money to should have alerted TFS that Mr Ss finances might not be in good 
shape. And in addition to the money owed to his friend, and a hire purchase loan being 
repaid at £231 each month, Mr S was using a substantial overdraft, over £2,500, when he 
applied for the loan. TFS was also aware that Mr S had been using short term credit
to supplement his income and had been doing this for a long time. The investigator said that 
there was evidence of short term credit usage as far back as 2011 and Mr S was still using 
short term loans when he applied for TFSs loan. He noted that there were three instalment 
loans being repaid at the time of the application, and another high cost loan. The three 
instalment loans had all been obtained less than three months before the loan application 
with TFS. The investigator said that this wasnt consistent with Mr S having a disposable 
income of over £600, or any significant disposable income. He thought this strongly 
suggested Mr S was struggling to manage his money and was reliant on credit and had been 
for a long time.
TFS disagreed. It noted that Mr S was using an overdraft and had small loans, which he was 
managing to repay without any financial difficulty. It said that if a customer wished to use 
short term loans and an overdraft, this was their choice. It disagreed this was a reason to 
decline a loan. It said that Mr S was not in debt and it did not see a reason to refer the 
customer to a debt adviser for financial help. 
TFS also said that Mr Ss income and expenditure was more than reasonable for a person 
living at home. His credit file had no adverse information at all. The information gathered at 
the time of lending was proportionate and it wasnt persuaded to carry out any additional 
checks. 
TFS said that Mr S maintained all the loan payments without any late payment fees which 
was further evidence the loan was affordable to him. 
TFS said it was satisfied that it had a suitable understanding of Mr Ss circumstances in 
order to ensure the loan was affordable and proportionate checks were carried out to make a 
fair lending decision. 
TFS also said that there were other cases where a Financial Ombudsman Service 
investigator had not upheld the complaint because the credit report had not shown any 
adverse information and there was no financial difficulty at the time of lending. It believed 
this was a similar complaint and therefore should not be upheld. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to TFS on 27 September 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that TFS had referred to other cases of this Service. However, as TFS knew, we 
assess each case on its own merits and it wasnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints as the circumstances might be very different.
I noted that when TFS lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Its rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. So even in this 
case where Mr S had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if he couldnt, this 
didnt absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Mr S could meet his repayments 
without undue difficulty.
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
TFS gathered some information from Mr S about his income and expenses before it agreed 
the loan. Id listened to recordings of eight phone calls between Mr S and TFS. TFS 
collected information from Mr S in some of these. It also carried out a credit check and 
obtained a payslip from Mr S.
Mr S declared his monthly income as £1,600, although his most recent payslip showed his 
net income as around £1,655. Mr S said he lived at home and paid no rent. He said he was 
single and had no dependents. He was a car owner. He declared living costs of £585. TFS 
noted that his monthly credit commitments were £396. It said that Mr S had a monthly 
disposable income of £433.22 after the loan repayment was made which deemed the loan 
affordable.
But TFS was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Id also noted that the purpose of the loan was to pay off a loan from a friend. But Id noted 
that Mr S had originally applied for a loan of £7,500 and that TFS had reduced the loan 
amount to £5,000 because of the information provided by Mr Ss guarantor. So, it wasnt clear whether TFSs loan would have repaid the outstanding loan. And I couldnt see that 
TFS had imposed any requirements for that loan to be repaid from its loan.
Id reviewed TFSs credit report. TFS could have seen from this that Mr S had three 
outstanding short term loans, two of which had been taken out around two months before his 
loan application. He also had another loan, and a hire purchase loan on which he was 
paying monthly payments of around £231. But more worryingly, the credit report also 
showed that Mr Ss overdraft had been in an arrangement to pay since the previous month. 
Altogether I thought the recent short term loans and arrangement to pay suggested that      
Mr Ss finances were under pressure. And I thought they might have also reasonably caused 
doubt on Mr Ss declared disposable income. 
I also thought that TFS would have been aware that its credit checks might not have 
revealed the full extent of Mr Ss credit commitments. A lender might only see a small portion 
of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might 
not necessarily be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit reference 
agencies.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Id also noted that Mr S was 
entering into a long and expensive loan agreement. Mr S was making a commitment to 
make his monthly loan repayments for 72 months. So, I didnt think it was enough here for 
TFS to rely on Mr Ss declared expenses and credit information that it knew might not be up 
to date or comprehensive in order for it to have a clear understanding of Mr Ss finances at 
the time. So, I thought it would have been reasonable and proportionate here for TFS to 
gather further information about Mr Ss financial situation and to verify his monthly 
expenditure. As I couldnt see it did this, I didnt think the checks it had carried out before 
providing Mr S with his loan were reasonable and proportionate. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did TFS make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr S had provided his credit report to this Service. Id noted that the investigator had asked    
Mr S to provide his bank statements from around the time of the loan, but these hadnt been 
received. 
Id reviewed Mr Ss credit report. I could see this showed the arrangement to pay from    
March 2015 on Mr Ss current account overdraft of £2,635. The report also showed that Mr S 
had a larger amount of outstanding credit than that shown in TFSs credit checks. At the time 
Mr S applied for TFSs loan, he had four outstanding short term loans (with a total amount 
borrowed of £1,050) and the most recent of these was for £300 and had been taken out 
around a month before TFSs loan. Mr S had also taken out another high cost loan for 
£2,000 less than three months before TFSs loan with repayments to be made over four 
years. The entries on the credit report also suggested that Mr S had been reliant on short 
term loans to supplement his income for an extended period. In the year before his loan 
application, he had borrowed 18 short term loans and had borrowed at least one short term 
loan in each of the last twelve months. As Mr S was borrowing at least one short term loan 
each month just to fund his existing expenditure and credit commitments, I thought there 
was a very real prospect that Mr S would need to borrow again in order to repay his new 
loan and that would likely have a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. Id noted that TFS had said that the loan payments (apart from one) had been made on time. 
But I didnt think that necessarily meant that the loan repayments were repaid sustainably, or 
without causing Mr S undue difficulty.
Overall, I thought TFS would have likely seen that Mr S was having significant difficulties 
managing his money if it had made better checks. So, I thought that further checks wouldnt 
likely have provided the assurance TFS needed and that it was unfair for it to provide the 
loan to Mr S.  
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or TFS, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order TFS to put things right as follows. 
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do 
TFS should:
  refund to Mr S all the interest and charges he paid on the loan;
  pay Mr S interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date  
they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
  remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
TFS hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both Mr S and TFS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require TFS to pay Mr S some compensation and take the steps as set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what TFS needs to do.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
TFS Loans Limited to pay Mr S some compensation and take the steps as set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what TFS needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman