DRN-3115950
The complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of his business, which Ill call R, that Allianz Insurance Plc hasnt 
fairly settled legal costs incurred following a claim made under the legal expenses cover 
offered within a Complete Office policy.   
What happened
R submitted a legal claim under the legal expenses part of its insurance. Allianz accepted 
the claim and agreed that R could appoint a solicitor of its choice, subject to terms being 
agreed. The solicitor negotiated an hourly rate of £177 with Allianz. 
During the course of the claim, the solicitors appointed an agent to carry out administrative 
work. Its our understanding this was agreed as a disbursement rather than an agreed hourly 
rate (between the solicitor and the agent). And the claim also required the input of an expert 
witness, which Allianz agreed. 
Rs claim was submitted to court. However, the expert witness report wasnt in the court 
standard format, and so the court required a further report to be done. And during further 
discussions about this it was determined the case no longer had prospects of success and 
so it was withdrawn.  Rs solicitors submitted a claim for costs of £39,585.37.  After referring 
the matter to a costs draftsman, Allianz agreed to pay £32,649.92. It didnt agree to pay the 
costs of the second report, as this wouldnt have been necessary had the initial report been 
done to the requisite standard. 
R complained that this has resulted in a shortfall of nearly £7,000. Allianz referred Rs 
comments back to the cost draftsman. The draftsman was satisfied the costs agreed were 
reasonable but did suggest some costs could be increased as a good will gesture.   So 
Allianz agreed to increase the hourly rate of the agent from £118 to £130 and offered an 
additional £500 + VAT for the second report. Not happy with that R referred the complaint to 
our office. 
Our investigator was satisfied Allianz had already fairly settled the costs claimed for; the 
solicitors had agreed to work £177 per hour and the work completed by the agent had been 
fairly assessed as being the equivalent of a grade D solicitor. She also concluded the 
amount paid towards the report, including the additional goodwill gesture, was fair given the 
initial report hadnt been of the required standard and so additional costs incurred 
unnecessarily, and authority hadnt been sought from Allianz and so it hadnt been approved. 
And she was mindful the claim was deemed to no longer have prospects, which meant the 
claim no longer met the terms of the policy. 
R has asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, it has said:
The insurance policy has an implied term of utmost good faith, which applies to both 
parties. It doesnt consider Allianz met that standard; the policy allowed the insured to 
choose a legal representative which is entirely reasonable, but Allianz makes this 
extremely difficult as it only offers low payment rates. Allianz offered a rate of £130 
when the scale rate was £221. The solicitor had to accept a lower rate of £177 to 
progress the case. 
It disputes the cost draftsman was independent and says they work for Allianz. They 
used the court guidelines rates but not for the solicitor and it wants to pick and 
choose when the guideline rates are used. If the court guideline rates are to be used, 
they should be used across the board and not just for the agent. 
The supplemental report was required by the judge; he doesnt agree there were 
inadequacies in the original report, the judge just wanted it to fully cover all the points 
discussed at the hearing. Allianz had already agreed to the appointment of the expert 
witness and the costs were well within the ceiling limits. 
I issued my provisional findings on 29 June 2021, explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint in part. I said:
Allianz accepted Rs claim, the only issue for me to consider is whether it has properly 
indemnified R for the legal costs incurred in pursuing the claim to the point it was no longer 
deemed to have prospects of success. I can only ask Allianz to pay more in settlement, or 
reconsider it, if I find it hasnt settled the matter in accordance with the terms and conditions, 
or it the terms and conditions have been applied unfairly or unreasonably. 
The starting position is the policy document which sets out the level of cover provided and 
under what circumstances a claim can be made how settlement is made. 
The policy does allow the insured to choose a legal representative. But the terms set out at 
Section 5:8 a, that:
If the Insurer agrees to appoint a Legal Representative that the Insured Person 
chooses, that Legal Representative will be appointed on the same terms as the 
Insurer would have appointed its chosen Legal Representative, except where the 
Insurer and the Legal Representative reach a different agreement. 
A legal expenses insurer will usually have a panel of solicitors that have agreed to act under 
the insurers standard terms of appointment, which usually includes agreed rates of pay. 
These are quite often less than non-panel solicitor rates of pay. It then falls to the chosen 
solicitors and the insurer to come to a mutually acceptable hourly rate.
 
The information on file shows that although Allianz initially offered an hourly rate of £130 it 
later agreed £177.  I accept this rate may be lower than the government agreed band, but it 
was nevertheless agreed between Allianz and Rs solicitors.  That this might have left R with 
a shortfall to pay was something that I understand was brought to Rs attention, and I further 
understand R has agreed to pay. It was open to Rs solicitors to continue to negotiate with 
Allianz if the rate of £177 wasnt agreeable. But as it was, I find no basis on which to ask 
Allianz to retrospectively increase the hourly rate. 
I turn now to the disbursement agreed for the agent. Its my understanding an hourly rate 
wasnt pre-agreed for the agent, but instead charged as a disbursement. In correspondence 
between the solicitors and Allianz I can see the work of the agent is described as lodging 
documents and incidental work. This would include collating and lodging Inventories of 
Productions; attending at Preliminary Hearings with Counsel etc. Allianz referred the matter 
of costs to a costs draftsman at a law firm (independent of Allianz) who assessed the 
reasonable costs to be that of a grade D solicitor because of the nature of the work carried 
out.  
I understand the draftsman based the costs of £118 an hour on the National Grade 1 band D 
rate contained in the guideline hourly rates for solicitors in England and Wales. In the 
absence of applicable guidelines in Rs area, I find that Allianz was fairly entitled to rely on the draftsmans conclusions about that.  I appreciate and understand the agent may usually 
work for a higher hourly rate. But R hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that the work 
carried out was commensurate with a different pay band such that a higher hourly rate would 
be due, or that Allianz otherwise agreed to pay a higher rate. Indeed, that the guideline 
hourly rates would be used is set out in the definition of legal expenses, fees and expenses 
within the policy document.  Nevertheless, Allianz has agreed to increase the hourly rate to 
£130 an hour as a goodwill gesture. This is more than I would have awarded for this part of 
the complaint and so find this to be a fair resolution in respect of the fees for the agent. 
I turn now to the experts report. Under B Claims Process Conditions, 2 Consent, the policy 
says:
It is a condition precedent to the liability of the Insurer to provide cover under this 
Section that the Insured Person firs obtain the insurers prior written agreement 
(Consent) to
i    provide cover under this section in respect of a Claim; and
ii   incur Legal Expenses; and
iii  pay Awards of Compensation, Data Protection Compensation Awards, Jury 
Service Allowance or Witness Attendance Allowance. 
The information on file shows that Allianz required Rs solicitors to obtain authority for any 
disbursements of £500 or over. I agree and accept that Allianz did agree to the first report 
being commissioned from the expert witness and so accept it did agree to some costs in 
excess of £500. But it is clear Rs solicitors did not seek authority for the second report, or 
the costs incurred for producing said report, from Allianz. On a strict application of the policy 
terms, the costs of the second report wouldnt be met.
 
I do need to fairly take into account, however, that the second report was court mandated. I 
find it unlikely that a prudent legal expenses insurer, if authority had been sought in advance, 
would have declined to fund the cost of a report required by a judge. It seems to me to do so 
would have left it open to court costs for wasted time etc. But I dont think that means that 
Allianz ought to pay the second report costs in addition to the first.
 
As acknowledged by the costs draftsman, an expert witness report would have been 
required in any event and payment for their assessment of the situation and knowledge was 
reasonable. But that expert report ought to have been clear and court compliant from the 
outset. And although R has sought to argue there were no inadequacies in the original report 
it just needed to be clearer, that isnt borne out by Rs own solicitors comments about that.
 
In correspondence to Allianz, Rs solicitor said of the judges view of the report:
she was unimpressed with the Expert Report lodged for the Pursuers in this case. 
She indicated that this was not in the standard form of an expert report in her 
experience. She commented that the Expert appeared to be hypothesizing back and 
forth and offered no settled view that she could determine but just rehearsed counter-
arguments. Although there was a conclusion in the Expert Report, he did not 
explain to the satisfaction of the judge how he arrived at this conclusion. She ordered 
that the Pursuers expert prepare and submit a revised report in standard form.  
    
So whilst I accept the report needed to be in a standard form, I think its very clear there 
were inadequacies in it. 
It seems to me that had the report been prepared to the required standard initially, then the 
costs of the expert witness time and knowledge would likely have been that incurred for the 
second report  I say this because the report would likely have been longer, and taken 
longer to prepare etc. But that means the costs of the first report, to all intents, were wasted costs and it is entirely possible Rs solicitors ought to have realised the report wasnt in the 
standard form at the time and shouldnt have proceeded with it. 
In the circumstances, and taking everything into account, I find that had the report been 
done to the required standard initially, as it ought to have been, Allianz would likely have 
agreed to the costs, which I understand were £3,500 plus £700 VAT (the costs of the Expert 
Witnesses time and work in producing the second report). But I dont think it should fairly 
have to pay for the initial report as well, given these were, in effect, wasted costs. So Im 
currently minded to find Allianz should reimburse R £3,500 plus £700 VAT less what it has 
already paid towards the first report (including any VAT already paid).  Im currently satisfied 
this would be a fair resolution to this complaint. 
Mr D, on behalf, accepted my provisional findings. He reiterated his points that the second 
report was court mandated, that there was a £50,000 ceiling on the claim, and that it was 
only once the second report was done that R no longer had prospects of success. 
Allianz also responded, I summary it said:
It doesnt believe the assumption that authority would have been given for the second 
report had it been asked for, as the report was court mandated, is correct. It says it 
would have refused as it had been indicated verbally during discussions on 16 
January 2020 that the claim no longer had prospects of success.  It also disagrees 
that there might have been wasted court costs as the claim was discontinued as a 
result of the second report. 
The first report did have value. Its preparation meant the expert considered the case 
and formed a view; and it was this consideration that allowed the expert to provide a 
verbal opinion in advance of the report being prepared. As such it considers the 
second report unnecessary. 
The claim should have been discontinued on the basis of the experts verbal views 
given on 16 January 2020. Had authority been requested on or around 16 January 
2020, it wouldnt have been granted as the claim clearly no longer had prospects of 
success. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further submissions in relation to the costs granted for the 
agent or Rs chosen solicitors. I therefore see no reason to change my findings in relation to 
those areas of Rs complaint. 
I turn now to the second report. I have considered the further submissions carefully, but Im 
not persuaded to alter my original findings. 
I have never said the initial report didnt have value, I accept it did. But it remains that the 
initial report was unclear in its conclusions and reasoning and as such it was required to be 
redone. 
And it seems accepted that it wasnt until further discussions were had on 16 January 2020 
that it became clear this benefit is not in [the experts] view, the one envisaged by the 
exchange of correspondence between the parties which formed the contract in respect of the 
which current litigation is being pursued. I take Allianzs point that from then the claim 
appeared to no longer have prospects. But according to the cost analysis by the costs 
draftsman, the expert witness report revision was sent to Counsel a short time later (it appears to be the following day) at which Counsel confirmed the case no longer had 
prospects. 
It seems to me that Allianz, in making the arguments it has, hasnt taken into account the 
experts time in reaching the ultimate conclusion he did about the contract; the cost of the 
report isnt just about the written word but the time, research and analysis that goes into that. 
I therefore remain of the view that had the report been done adequately at first request, it 
likely would have cost the same as the second report  and Allianz hasnt provided anything 
that persuades me otherwise. 
I do take Allianzs points about wasted court costs  although the point I was making in my 
provisional findings was a general one. But it doesnt make a difference to my overall 
findings.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Allianz 
Insurance Plc to pay R: 
£3,500 plus £700 VAT for the second report, less any settlement it has already made 
for the first report; and
A sum representing the difference in hourly rate between £118 and £130 for the 
agents work, if R on reflection, now wishes to accept that goodwill gesture
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman