DRN-1696158
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
Mr and Mrs P took out the PPI to protect their mortgage repayments in 2001.
The policy provided cover in the event Mr P had an accident or became disabled or if he lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Our adjudicator didnt find enough evidence to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps mis-sale complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P disagree. Their main complaint is that the policy was added to their account 
without their knowledge. They dont recall agreeing to it and say normally theyd decline any 
extras like this. Mr and Mrs P also told us that they didnt need the cover as Mr P already 
had good sick pay arrangements through work and they say 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
HSBC discussed PPI with Mr P over the phone around the time he was arranging a 
mortgage and he then took out the policy by filling in an application form.  
Theres no call recording available now and I havent seen any sales script. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect HSBC to be able to provide either after so long and its not a reason for 
me to uphold the complaint. It means I dont know how HSBC presented PPI to Mr P or 
explained it to him. 
But I cant fairly say that HSBC didnt make Mr P aware that PPI was an optional feature or 
that he didnt opt to take it out, just based on what Mr P says. I have to decide what I think is 
most likely, taking into account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
Mr P had to fill in a separate application form to take out the policy. And it wasnt something 
that was directly linked to a mortgage application  he wouldve had to apply to borrow his 
mortgage separately. So I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that 
HSBC didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs P not to choose PPI if they didnt 
want to have it. I think its likely their mortgage was a major financial commitment. Mr and Mrs P were 
responsible for making the monthly mortgage repayments and their home couldve been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent paid in full and on time each month. The policy offered 
Mr and Mrs P benefits they wouldnt have had otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs P 
mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
I can completely understand why they mightve forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think 
its more likely that Mr and Mrs P decided they wanted to have the benefits the PPI offered 
and it was added to their account when they decided to buy the policy to cover Mr P. 
HSBC didnt advise Mr P to take out the PPI. But it still had to provide him with enough clear 
information about the policy so he could decide if it was right for him. 
HSBC told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date the PPI 
was sold. But it has provided policy terms which were in use shortly afterwards. So I think its 
reasonable to rely on this information and I think its likely that the policy Mr P took out 
wouldve had substantially the same terms and conditions. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr P wasnt eligible for the cover. And although there were 
some things the policy didnt cover, it doesnt look as if those applied in Mr Ps case. As far 
as I can see he wasnt affected by any of the policy limitations or exclusions and he couldve 
benefitted from full cover under the policy. So, I dont think having more information about 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected Mr and Mrs Ps decision to take out PPI to 
cover Mr P. 
The PPl policy Mr and Mrs P took out for Mr P provided cover for short-term absences from 
work (up to 12 months at a time) and protected the mortgage monthly payments. It couldve 
paid out in the event Mr P had an accident or he wasnt able to work as a result of sickness. 
It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay  and for longer than he told us he couldve depended 
on getting sick pay from his employer. The policy wouldve provided valuable cover if he 
couldnt work  not just due to illness but also if he lost his job unexpectedly. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs P long term protection whilst they were 
paying their mortgage.
As the mortgage was taken out when both Mr and Mrs P were in paid work, I think it mightve 
been difficult for them to manage the mortgage monthly repayments for very long if Mr P 
wasnt working. They told us they had no other way of making the monthly repayments if 
they werent working. 
So I think the policy offered Mr and Mrs P useful protection.
Its possible some of the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. I dont know if the PPI cost was explained to them when they bought 
the policy. But it was free for the first six months so there was plenty of time to cancel the 
insurance if it wasn't something they wanted to start paying for. From what Ive seen, it 
hasnt been suggested that Mr and Mrs P couldnt afford the monthly premiums. They 
wouldve had to set up payment instructions to their bank to cover the cost of the monthly 
premiums paid to the insurer separately from their mortgage repayments to the lender. So it 
seems they were happy to pay for the policy at the time. 
There may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think that 
Mr and Mrs P still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr P even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular circumstances. I dont think 
having clearer information wouldve stopped them buying the PPI.This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs P have lost out as a result of anything that HSBC did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman