DRN-2247823
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building unfairly closed his accounts with it.
What happened
Mr O had current and savings accounts with Nationwide. He had complained about a 
missing payment  a complaint which this service has considered separately. In May 2020 
he visited a branch trying to find out what had happened to the payment. He was asked to 
leave, but Nationwide says he refused to do so. The police were called. 
Around ten days later Nationwide wrote to Mr O to say it was closing his personal and 
business accounts and an ISA. It cited his behaviour towards its staff and said that, whilst it 
was entitled to close his accounts with immediate effect, it was giving him one months 
notice. 
In July 2020 Mr O visited a different branch, he says to make a transfer of funds to a 
different account. Nationwide says Mr O was trying to use the account again and that he 
said he didnt have a different account. Again, the police were called.
Mr O complained to this service. One of our investigators considered what had happened 
but felt that Nationwide had treated Mr O fairly. He didnt accept her findings and asked that 
an ombudsman review them.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its generally for account providers to decide whether or not they wish to provide  or 
continue to provide  banking services to customers. We wont usually interfere with their 
decisions about that, as long as theyre made legitimately. 
However, if a bank or building society does decide to end banking relationship, we would 
usually expect it to give reasonable notice that its doing so. In most cases, reasonable 
notice would be no less than 60 days, unless there are special circumstances. 
In this case, Nationwide gave Mr O 30 days notice of closure.
Nationwide has provided staff accounts of what happened. Those accounts have persuaded 
me that Mr O was rude and aggressive towards building society staff. That view is supported 
to some extent by the approach that Mr O has on occasions adopted when dealing with this 
service. Nationwide has also provided photographs of damage it says Mr O caused at the 
branch he visited in July 2020. 
Im satisfied too that Mr O was seeking to have his account re-opened in July 2020, not 
simply trying to get money transferred. 
In the circumstances I believe that Nationwide was justified not only in closing Mr Os 
accounts but also in doing so with less than the usual notice. It was also justified in acting as 
it did after it had given Mr O notice of closure. In the circumstances I dont believe either that 
branch staff acted unreasonably when they chose to call the police. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman