DRN-3946931
The complaint
Mr E complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Financial 
Services, who Ill call Argos were unreasonable to apply interest to his Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) purchases.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr E, but I think Argos have now done enough to resolve this issue.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Argos have explained that they stopped issuing text messages to remind consumers their 
BNPL transactions needed to be paid for, in August 2021. That was a service they werent 
obliged to offer, and I can see that even whilst that service was in place Mr E did miss some 
payments and attract interest on them. The statements Mr E received set out when the 
BNPL transactions needed to be paid for so I think Argos did make him aware of that, and 
whilst statements were only available on-line, Argos have provided evidence that they 
informed Mr E that would be the case and he doesnt appear to have asked to continue to 
receive paper statements.
However, its clear, that at least to some extent, Mr E relied on the text messages to tell him 
when payments were due. Argos have therefore offered to refund the interest charges for 
the first transaction Mr E failed to settle in time after the BNPL text messages ceased. I think 
thats a fair resolution in the circumstances, and whilst Im asking them to do that, Im not 
asking them to take any more action.
Putting things right
Argos should refund the first deferred interest charge that occurred after text alerts ceased, a 
total of £16.73.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited to refund the first deferred interest charge that occurred after text 
alerts ceased; a value of £16.73. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman