DRN-1864755
 
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy at how New Mount Reclaim Limited, trading as The Money Reclaim Expert 
(TMRE), dealt with her claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 23 April 2020, a copy of which is  below 
and forms part of this decision. 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs K is unhappy at how New Mount Reclaim Limited, trading as The Money Reclaim 
Expert (TMRE), dealt with her claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
what happened
Mrs K instructed TMRE to look into potential PPI claims against a number of lenders. 
A claim against Lender C was successful but Mrs K needed to provide Lender C with 
an acceptance form and proof of her change of name. She provided TMRE with a 
copy of her marriage certificate, but Lender C wouldnt accept this because it wasnt a 
certified copy. So Mrs K hasnt received her compensation for this claim as yet.
TMRE incorrectly invoiced Mrs K for their fees on the Lender C claim, and invoiced her 
in error for another unsuccessful claim. TMRE apologised for this, and have cancelled 
both invoices  so Mrs K doesnt need to pay the success fee for the claim against 
Lender C.
Mrs K has raised a number of grounds of complaint to TMRE about the service she 
says they failed to provide.
Our investigator said TMRE shouldve pursued claims against Lenders H, B, L and M, 
but she couldnt see that they had. She also said TMRE shouldve checked Lender Cs 
requirements before sending them the copy documentation Mrs K had provided. And 
she felt TMRE shouldve provided Mrs K with regular updates.
To resolve this complaint, the investigator said TMRE should return the copy 
documents to Mrs K, so she could send them to Lender C herself. She also said that 
TMRE should pay Mrs K £150 for the trouble and upset shed been caused, and an 
additional £250 as Mrs K has now lost the opportunity to have her PPI claims 
considered.
While TMRE agreed they couldve done better, they didnt agree that Mrs K had lost 
the opportunity to have her claims considered. They also provided a breakdown of all Mrs Ks claims. TMRE agreed the £150 was justified for the trouble and upset Mrs K 
had been caused, but they didnt agree with the additional £250.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not disputed that TMRE couldve done better, or that they incorrectly invoiced Mrs 
K. And they agree they should pay Mrs K £150 for the trouble and upset they caused 
her. But they say they only provide updates once these become available & are 
beneficial. 
Ive seen TMRE provided Mrs K with a full update on all of her claims on 23 August 
2019. This update clearly shows that all of Mrs Ks claims had been submitted and 
were either still in progress or completed. But I havent seen that they kept Mrs K 
reasonably updated with how her claims were progressing.
Ive also seen a copy of the letter Lender C sent to Mrs K on 4 June 2019. This 
explained theyd need to see an original or certified copy of her change of name 
before they could release her compensation. Lender C also enclosed a copy of a 
guide for certifying documents to help Mrs K.  
I agree with the investigator that, as a professional claims management company, 
TMRE shouldve known what Lender Cs requirements were, or shouldve checked 
this before they sent a copy of Mrs Ks marriage certificate to them. Not doing so has 
delayed the compensation being paid to Mrs K.
But Mrs K was aware what was needed once she received Lender Cs letter. Shed 
need to either send an original or certified copy or her change of name to Lender C, or 
send this to TMRE to send it to Lender C on her behalf. Ive not seen anything to show 
she did this. So I wont be asking TMRE to return the copy marriage certificate to Mrs 
K, as Lender C has already said they wont accept this. If Mrs K hasnt done so 
already, she needs to send Lender C an original or certified copy.
TMREs business file shows they prepared and submitted all of the claims Mrs K 
instructed them to make. The deadline for making new PPI claims was 27 August 
2019, and all Mrs Ks claims were made before this deadline. While it may be the case 
that some of these claims are still ongoing and/or Mrs K hasnt been updated as to 
whats happening; I cant agree with the investigator that Mrs K has lost the 
opportunity to claim PPI  the claims were submitted before the deadline and they can 
now be processed to their natural conclusion. 
Its for this reason I dont agree that TMRE should pay Mrs K £250 for the loss of 
opportunity to make PPI claims  no opportunity has been lost. But they should still 
pay her the £150 for the trouble and upset shes been caused, and provide her with a 
full written update on all of the claims shed asked them to make.
my provisional decision
For the reasons explained above Im looking to uphold Mrs Ks complaint and to ask 
New Mount Reclaim Limited to pay her £150 for the trouble and upset they caused 
her. In summary, I said TMRE couldve done better, and they acknowledge this was the case. 
TMRE made errors when invoicing Mrs K, but they cancelled these invoices so no success 
fees for the claim against Lender C was due. I also said that TMRE also didnt keep Mrs K 
reasonably updated as to the progress of her claims.
So I agreed that TMRE should pay Mrs K £150 for the trouble and upset theyd caused her. 
But, because all of her claims had been submitted before the PPI deadline, I didnt agree 
they should compensate her for the loss of opportunity to have all her claims considered.
Both Mrs K and TMRE have been given the opportunity to comment on my provisional 
decision. But they have both chosen not to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As no comments or additional evidence 
has been received from either Mrs K or TMRE, my provisional decision remains unchanged 
and will become my final decision.
Putting things right
TMRE should pay Mrs K £150 to recognise the trouble and upset theyd caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. New Mount Reclaim Limited 
must follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman