DRN-4382536
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with what Fairmead Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on his legal
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr I made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy as he wanted to
pursue an employment claim. Fairmead is the insurer of his policy. The matter was referred
to panel solicitors to see if it had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement for cover
to be provided under the policy). The panel firm concluded it didnt.
Fairmead issued a final response to the complaint Mr I made in September 2022. It said if he
wanted to challenge the prospects assessment hed need to obtain a barristers opinion of
his own. Mr I did so. That opinion concluded an element of his claim (relating to disability
discrimination) did have reasonable prospects of success but others didnt. A separate
complaint about those issues (including payment for the barrister) was referred to us by Mr I
and doesnt form part of this complaint.
Fairmead discussed next steps with Mr I. It said if he wanted to pursue the elements of the
claim that didnt have reasonable prospects of success it wouldnt provide funding and hed
need to pay privately. Mr I said he would wait to see which claims would proceed in the
Employment Tribunal (ET) following a strike out application.
Mr Is claims werent struck out and he told Fairmead in January he wanted assistance and
had a further hearing in early February. Fairmead said, given the strike out decision, it would
ask another panel firm to reconsider prospects. It also agreed to fund that firm to assist Mr I
with preparation for the February hearing and represent him at that.
After that hearing Mr I asked Fairmead for assistance with an appeal to the Employment
Appeal Tribunal which the panel firm hadnt been instructed to assist with and for which
there was an upcoming deadline. Fairmead asked the panel firm to help but it didnt have
capacity to do so. Mr I lodged the appeal himself but still wanted representation with his
other claims. At the start of March the panel firm completed its review. It found none of
Mr Is claims had reasonable prospects of success. Fairmead said it would withdraw cover.
In response to the complaint Mr I made Fairmead said it made clear it would only provide
funding for his claim if he removed those elements that were assessed as not having
reasonable prospects of success. It nevertheless agreed to seek a further opinion on
prospects in January and provided funding to protect Mr Is position while that was done. 
As the further opinion on prospects was unsupportive cover was withdrawn following that. 
But it accepted there had been occasions where its communication with Mr I could have 
been better and offered to pay £150 in recognition of that.
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had done anything wrong in withdrawing cover for
Mr Is claim or declining to pay for costs hed incurred. And she thought its offer of £150 was
enough to recognise the inconvenience hed been caused by its service failings. She also
noted Mr I had subsequently provided a new opinion from counsel on prospects which
Fairmead was reviewing.
Mr I didnt agree. He said his complaint was about what happened after the strike out
hearing on his claims had taken place; it wouldnt have made sense to withdraw any of them
prior to that. After that Fairmead agreed counsel could represent him at the February hearing
but this was postponed until April without his consent.
Fairmead hadnt then paid for further representation at the April hearing or the new
prospects assessment from the barrister involved. He thought Fairmead should reimburse
him for those costs which amounted to £2,700. And he said no cover had been put in place
for his victimisation claim which his barrister had given better than reasonable prospects of
success.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Fairmead has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In this case Im considering what happened since the final decision on Mr Is previous
complaint which was in September 2022. Its a requirement of his policy that a claim must
have reasonable prospects for the duration of the claim. It defines that as for civil cases the
prospects that you will recover losses or damage (or obtain any other legal remedy that the
administrator has agreed to including an enforcement of judgement), make a successful
defence or make a successful appeal must be at least 51%.
Mr I obtained a barristers opinion on his claim in at the end of September which identified
some elements had reasonable prospects of success. But Fairmead said it would only
provide funding if Mr I agreed not to pursue the other elements of his claim. In response to
our inquiries it said that was because pursuing all elements meant the overall claim didnt
meet the policy terms.
However, Im not clear why Fairmead couldnt have offered to fund those elements of
Mr Is claim that had been assessed as having reasonable prospects. Mr I could then have
decided if he wanted to pursue the claims and pay for those himself. That would have been
in line with the legal advice from the panel firm who said at the end of September his options
were to withdraw all claims save that of disability discrimination or choose to pursue all
claims pleaded and currently before the Employment Tribunal. This would mean you need to
pay privately for legal costs for your claims that do not have reasonable prospects of
success.
However, while I have concerns about the advice Fairmead provided here I dont think Mr I
has lost out because of anything it got wrong. He didnt want to make a decision on which
claims to pursue because he was waiting the outcome of a forthcoming strike out hearing.
He told us it wouldnt have made sense to withdraw any claims prior to that taking place. So
even if Fairmead had given Mr I clearer advice on his options I dont think that would have
led him to act any differently prior to the strike out hearing.At that hearing I understand Mr Is claims werent struck out. I dont agree with him that
means they had reasonable prospects of success; the test as to whether a claim meets the
threshold for strike out is different to whether its likely to be successful or not. But Fairmead
says given the outcome of the strike out hearing it decided to seek a revised opinion from a
panel firm on whether this did make a difference to the previous assessment on prospects. I
think that was reasonable and was treating Mr I fairly.
I also think, as there was an upcoming hearing which would take place prior to that
assessment being completed, it was appropriate of Fairmead to fund the panel firm and
counsel to prepare for that hearing and represent Mr I at it. I appreciate he doesnt feel
counsel acted in his best interests in seeking a postponement of the hearing. However, if
hes unhappy with the action of counsel or the panel firm hed need to raise that as a
separate complaint against either or both of them. Fairmead isnt responsible for the actions
of the panel firm (or counsel) when carrying out their legal role.
And I think Fairmead acted appropriately when Mr I told it about the appeal hearing he
wanted it to fund; it asked the panel firm if it could assist and when it couldnt offered to fund
a solicitor of Mr Is choice if he was able to find one. I appreciate Mr I wasnt able to find a
firm and had to lodge the appeal himself but, given the short timeframes involved, I dont
think there was more Fairmead could reasonably have done here.
The panel firm produced its prospects assessment in early March. That concluded none of
Mr Is claims had reasonable prospects of success. I think the opinion is properly written and
reasoned and from someone qualified to give it. So I dont think in principle it was
unreasonable of Fairmead to rely on this.
Where I do have a concern is that Mr I had previously produced an opinion from counsel
which did give positive prospects on some elements of his claim. And our general position is
that where theres conflict between the opinion of a solicitor or counsel it should be counsels
opinion thats preferred. I appreciate the prospects requirement is an ongoing one but I
havent seen there was any significant new evidence in relation to this since counsel issued
his previous opinion.
Given that I think prior to withdrawing cover for all of Mr Is claim Fairmead should have
obtained a further counsels opinion on those parts that had previously been assessed as
having reasonable prospects of success. So Ive thought about whether Mr I lost out
because it didnt do that.
I understand he paid for counsel to represent him at an April 2023 hearing of his claim and
paid for a further opinion from counsel on the claims prospects of success. That opinion was
negative about most elements. Counsel did however give reasonable prospects for a
victimisation issue. In relation to disability discrimination he said he wasnt in a position to
review or update the assessment undertaken by the previous counsel. And Mr I would have
to rely on the prospects assessment he provided (which put this at 55%).
I appreciate Mr I thinks Fairmead should reimburse the £2,700 he spent on this advice and
related representation. But its only matters which were previously assessed as having
reasonable prospects of success I think Fairmead should have sought its own counsels
opinion about. So its only costs relating either to that or any other elements of the claim that
have now been shown to have reasonable prospects of success it could reasonably be
expected to pay here.
In more recent correspondence with Mr I it offered to pay £200 towards the cost of the
advice he obtained. Its calculated that on the basis the proportion of claims which wereassessed as enjoying reasonable prospects was around 17%. I appreciate this isnt an exact
science but I think thats a fair way of recognising the additional costs Mr I incurred in
obtaining advice because of what Fairmead got wrong. But I think it should pay on a similar
basis for the costs he incurred in funding representation at the April hearing because at least
some of that amount will relate to costs which would otherwise have been covered by his
policy.
I appreciate Mr I didnt seek authorisation for those costs from Fairmead but thats because
hed been told cover had been withdrawn for his claim in its entirety when, as Ive already
found, Fairmead should have sought advice from counsel on part of it. The cost of
representation at the hearing was £1,500 so a 17% contribution would equate to £255. That
means Mr I should be paid a total of £455.
I also agree there have been some customer service failings in Fairmeads contact with Mr I.
In particular it does appear to have caused some confusion over what role the panel
solicitors would be carrying out once they were appointed in January 2023. But I think the
£150 Fairmead has already offered does enough to recognise the impact of what it got
wrong on Mr I.
Mr I is also unhappy with more recent decisions Fairmead has taken in relation to the
funding of his ongoing claim (having considered the most recent opinion from counsel). But
those are matters that would need to be considered as part of a separate complaint (and
Fairmead would need the opportunity to respond before we could consider them)
Response to my provisional decision
Fairmead said it didnt have any objection to my provisional decision. 
Mr I did provide some further comments. He said Fairmead hadnt paid the value of his 
victimisation claim despite offering to do so in June 2023 and being provided with evidence 
in relation to this. He thought compensation should be provided for this and for it not 
covering his disability discrimination claim. 
And he said he was unhappy with the actions of his insurer after the preliminary hearing in 
April 2023 as highlighted in previous correspondence. He was also concerned he had no 
representation for forthcoming ET hearings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr I is unhappy with what Fairmead did in relation to the April 2023 hearing. And 
Ive taken into account the comments he previously made about this and in particular the 
correspondence hes referenced from July this year. 
In relation to the April hearing Mr I focused on the £2,700 costs hed incurred. However, I set 
out in my provisional decision why I didnt think Fairmead should be responsible for all those 
costs. And I explained why I thought it was reasonable it should pay a total of £455 in 
relation to this. I havent seen anything that would lead me to reach a different view on that. I appreciate Mr I is unhappy about what subsequently happened and that Fairmead hasnt 
paid the value of his victimisation claim or provided cover for his disability discrimination 
claim. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, those arent matters Im considering. 
Im only looking at events that took place prior to the final response Fairmead issued on the 
complaint in April 2023. 
I know Mr I is concerned about his upcoming hearings but if hes unhappy with what 
Fairmead did (or didnt do) on his claim after April 2023 that would need to form part of a 
fresh complaint. And we could consider that once Fairmead had had an opportunity to do so. 
As part of our investigation wed then look into whether Fairmead had got anything wrong 
and, if so, whether Mr I should receive compensation. However, that doesnt form part of this 
complaint and for the reasons Ive explained I dont think there are grounds to change the 
outcome I previously set out on this. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited will need to pay Mr I £455 
towards the legal costs he incurred. It will also need to pay him £150 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman