DRN-4125858
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice Quilter Financial Services Ltd gave to him to transfer the 
benefits from one of his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr M to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ms.
The advising firm Mr M complains about is an appointed representative of Quilter. So, 
although it wasn't Quilter itself that gave Mr M advice, as its responsible for responding to 
the complaint, in this decision, I will only refer to Quilter. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr M approached Quilter about releasing cash from his pension. Quilter did a fact-
find with him gathering information about his circumstances and objectives. Amongst other 
things it recorded that:
Mr M was 64 years old, he would turn 65 later that year.
He was married, his wife didnt work or have an income of her own.
He was still employed, earning around £20,000 a year. But he was off work sick. He 
was scheduled to undergo operations and thought he would be off work recuperating 
for around a further six months. He said he wouldn't be paid while off sick. But once 
back in work, he anticipated working until he was 68.
He lived in rented accommodation, a housing association helped towards paying the 
rent, and Mr M paid around £500 a month himself. He said he was in rent arrears.
He wanted a lump sum of £17,100 to clear his rent arrears and to live off for 12 
months while he recuperated.
He was a deferred member of two former employers DB schemes.
He could access the benefits from one of his DB schemes (which Ill refer to as S) 
immediately. He didnt have the option of transferring out of this scheme. 
S would pay Mr M a pension of £2,876 a year with effect from February 2016. And as 
that entitlement was backdated, after deducting tax, it would make a payment to him 
of £3,068. It would also pay him a lump sum of £8,628 in tax free cash (TFC). 
Making a total payment of £11,696.
S would continue to pay Mr M a pension of £2,876 a year.
He would need around £15,000 a year to live off.
His other DB pension with an employer Ill refer to as B, had a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of £115,612 if he transferred it to an alternative arrangement.
At age 65 Bs pension scheme would pay Mr M TFC of £23,951 together with a 
yearly pension of £3,599.
Mr M and his current employer were continuing to contribute to his workplace 
pension scheme. Together they made contributions of about £1,600 a year. Mr M 
didnt have any other details about the funds in that scheme readily available to him.
He expected to receive a full state pension from age 65 of £8,297 a year.
He had an emergency fund of £820.
Quilter sent Mr M a suitability report setting out its analysis and recommendations. It 
recommended that Mr M should transfer out of his B scheme and invest the sums in a SIPP. 
Amongst other things it said that, after using the £11,696 he would receive from the S 
scheme, he could take £5,400 in TFC from the B scheme, to make up the £17,100 he said 
he needed to live off. 
Quilter acknowledged that Mr M could meet his income needs by remaining in the B 
scheme. But, it said that wouldn't give him flexible access to the funds he wanted. Instead he 
could top up the income from his state and S pension by drawing down funds of £3,826 a 
year from his SIPP, to make up his income to the desired level of £15,000. It also said that 
the death benefits available from the SIPP were more favourable for Mr Ms wife.
Quilter charged Mr M a fee of £3,473.90 for its initial advice with an ongoing service fee of 
1% of the fund value each year.
Mr M went ahead with the transfer. I understand that was completed around November 2017 
near to the time Mr M turned 65.
In 2022 Mr M complained to Quilter that its advice hadn't been suitable for him. Quilter didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that, given Mr Ms need for cash urgently to pay his rent 
arrears when he didnt have an income, a transfer met his objectives.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He spoke to Mr M, 
who said that at the time of the advice he wasnt in rent arrears and had used his TFC to pay 
for other things.
Our Investigator recommended upholding the complaint. In brief, he didnt think Quilters 
advice was suitable for Mr M. He said Quilter hadn't shown that, by drawing down income 
from a SIPP, the fund would last for Mr Ms life expectancy. The Investigator added that 
Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement by remaining in the B scheme. Our 
Investigator said that Quilter should compensate Mr M for any losses. 
Quilter didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It said the evidence 
it held showed Mr M had told it he was in rent arrears. It added that the suitability report said 
that, by drawing down from the SIPP to make up his income needs, the funds would last Mr 
M 36 years, so would still be available once hed turned 100 years old. It said at the time of 
its advice Mr M intended to carry on working and so he didnt want to take a regular income 
from the B scheme. Therefore it believed its advice was suitable for Mr M.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in replying to it both Mr M and Quilter have made a number of 
points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address each 
and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the matters at the heart of 
Mr Ms complaint and the reasons for my decision. Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilters actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate it was 
in Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence on our file, Im not satisfied it 
was in his best interests.
Was Quilters advice suitable?
Mr M was 64 at the time of the advice and, while he wanted to keep on working, he was very 
close to his 65th birthday. From then he could claim his state pension and also the full 
benefits from his B pension. In fact, as is common with DB transfers, as the matter took 
some months to conclude, the date of the transfer was close to Mr Ms birthday. So if he 
hadn't transferred, he could have taken pension income from his B scheme at that time. But 
he lost the opportunity to take income from his B scheme when he transferred. 
Quilter recorded that Mr M was in rent arrears and needed a sum of £17,100 to repay those 
and to provide an income for at least the next 12 months while he was recuperating from 
treatment. And it seems that when Mr M initially approached Quilter he was considering 
transferring from his DB scheme in order to release TFC to repay some of his rent arrears. 
I note Mr M told our Investigator that he wasnt in rent arrears at the time of the advice. But 
the evidence on Quilters file doesn't support that. I say so because Quilter recorded that 
Mr M was in rent arrears in its initial fact-find. And it referred to those arrears on at least 
three separate occasions within its suitability report. Thats significant as, after receiving the 
report, Mr M sent Quilter an email agreeing he understood it and that it was factually 
accurate. So, if he wasnt in arrears then I would have expected him to point that out then. But he didnt do so. So I think its likely he did tell Quilter that he was in rent arrears. In those 
circumstances I think it was reasonable for it to carry out its analysis on that basis.
That said, the papers I've seen dont show the extent of Mr Ms arrears. That is, from the 
evidence thats been presented to me, Quilter didnt make a record of exactly how much 
Mr M owed in rent. And, given Quilter had stressed how important paying the arrears was to 
Mr M, thats something I would have expected to see documented in its suitability report. 
Its notable Mr M said he needed access to £17,100, which included covering his living 
expenses for the next 12 months. And as Mr M said he needed £15,000 a year to live off that 
would indicate that the rent arrears were in the region of (£17,100 - £15,000) £2,100. And 
while thats not an insignificant sum, its certainly not the case that the only way in which 
Mr M could pay it was by giving up the guaranteed, risk free and increasing benefits from his 
B scheme. 
As I've said above the expectation is that a DB transfer is only suitable where an adviser can 
clearly demonstrate it was in the customers best interests. But, in this case, Mr M had other 
options other than transferring sums from his B scheme. I note that Quilter said that Mr M 
didnt have other means of accessing this sum of money, such as family or friends he could 
borrow from. And that he couldnt afford to repay borrowing from other sources.
Ill say briefly that, where a consumer is struggling with debts, there are other avenues of 
help available beyond commercial borrowing. And Quilter could have steered Mr M to seek 
advice from the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB). It might have been able to help him 
negotiate an affordable repayment plan for his rent arrears. And given that he was no longer 
receiving a regular wage, the CAB could also have advised him about his potential 
entitlement to state benefits until he began to receive a wage again. But I've seen no 
evidence it did that.
However, even if Quilter did recommend that Mr M speak to a debt or benefits adviser I dont 
think Mr M had any need to transfer from his B scheme in order to pay his arrears and meet 
his income needs. When he spoke with Quilter he was about six months away from his 65th 
birthday. So, given that advising on and arranging a DB transfer is a complex process, its 
usual for a transfer to take a number of months to complete. Therefore, Quilter should have 
known, at the outset, that Mr M was likely to be near to or already past his 65th birthday by 
the time the transfer process was completed. And from that point onwards Mr M would have 
entitlement to both state pension and income from his B scheme.Had Mr M chosen to take the benefits from his B scheme that would have given him the 
following yearly income:
State pension:  £ 8,297
S pension:  £ 2,876
B pension:  £ 3,599
Total  £14,772
So Mr Ms income from those three pension sources would be just £228 short of the amount 
he estimated he would need to live off each year. And its worth pointing out that all three of 
those pensions would have received an index linked increase the following April. Theyd also 
have continued to increase each year for the rest of Mr Ms life. So those sums should have 
allowed Mr M to meet his income needs without transferring out of his B scheme.
But as well as a regular income, S would pay Mr M TFC and backdated pension payments 
amounting to £11,696. And the indication is that he would have received that sum shortly 
after Quilter produced its suitability report and almost certainly before the transfer completed. 
And he could have used those funds to address some, if not all, of his rent arrears, as well 
as using it as income. Further, if Mr M had taken income from his B scheme then he could 
have received TFC of £23,951. He could then have used those funds to support his lifestyle 
or, if he wanted to, to invest in something like an easy access investment product  for 
example a cash ISA. And that would have given him some flexible access to cash. So Mr M 
had no need to transfer from his B scheme in order to meet his income requirements.
It's notable that Quilter identified in its suitability report that Mr M could meet his needs while 
remaining in the B scheme. But it said he would like to transfer anyway as, after taking 
£5,400 straightaway, that would allow him access to further TFC sums in the future without 
taking an income. I don't doubt thats what Mr M told Quilter hed like to do. Transferring 
would allow him access to £115,612, 25% of which he could take tax free. And I can see 
why that would be a mouth-watering prospect for most people. But Quilters role should have 
been to advise Mr M on what was in his best interests, not simply to arrange what he said he 
wanted at that moment in time without carefully examining what his needs, rather than 
simply his desires, were. And while he might have said hed like to be able to take large lump 
sums in the future, that doesn't mean that transferring was in his best interests. 
Quilters said that if Mr M limited his withdrawals to the £3,826 he needed each year to make 
up his income shortfall, even without investment growth, the fund would last him beyond his 
life expectancy. I accept thats the case. But that calculation doesn't allow for the effect of 
adviser and product charges, which would reduce his fund. it also doesn't allow for inflation 
increasing his income needs each year. And while that could potentially be offset by 
investment growth, a sustained period of poor performance or market crashes could result in 
losses. Also I need to think about Mr Ms capacity to absorb investment losses. While he did 
have other pension income, that wasnt enough to meet his day-to-day expenses. And he 
only had around £820 in savings. So I don't think he was in a position to absorb any 
significant losses if the SIPP didnt perform as predicted. 
Quilter also said that Mr M intended to return to work so he didnt need a regular income at 
that point. We now know that, as circumstances evolved, Mr M didnt return to work. But I 
accept Quilter couldnt have anticipated that at the time and based its advice on Mr Ms 
intentions. I think that was reasonable. However, that doesn't make its recommendation 
suitable. Mr M might not have expected to need a regular income, but that doesn't mean he 
couldnt have benefited from it. As I've said above, it would have increased each year and, if 
he had a surplus, he could have saved or invested that to give him further access to funds 
flexibly. Quilter also said the death benefits available from his SIPP were more favourable than those 
available from his B scheme. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when 
asked most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. So
the lump sum death benefits on offer through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. 
Thats because whatever was left within Mr Ms SIPP at the date of his death would be 
passed on to his wife, whereas the B scheme would pay his wife 37.5% of his pension 
entitlement. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his B scheme to a SIPP because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provision.
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr M was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his wife that he may not need for many years to come. And by that time, the fund could 
have been depleted by Mr Ms withdrawals from it.
Quilter said Mr Ms pension fund would last beyond his life-expectancy. So he might have 
thought that guaranteed a significant lump sum for family on his death. But, if the fund grew 
by less than Quilter expected, or suffered losses, then there would be less available as a 
death benefit. Further, the fund would reduce as Mr M drew down money from it and those 
deductions would reduce the lump sum benefit available in the event of his death. In fact 
every time Mr M took a withdrawal he would be reducing the amount available as a legacy 
for his wife. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the risks involved in giving up the guaranteed income from his B scheme. 
Summary
I dont doubt that access to TFC lump sums and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Quilter wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. As I've said above the advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Quilter was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr M about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Ms DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But Mr Ms 
chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for the chance of accessing lump sums 
of cash, which, while no doubt tempting, he had no obvious need for, rather than long-term 
planning.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Quilter gave to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer to outweigh this. Quilter should not have advised Mr M to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that he could repay by other means, or to provide an income he 
could match while remaining in the B scheme. And the potential for higher death benefits for 
his wife wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his B scheme.
So, I think Quilter should have advised Mr M to remain in the scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Quilter's 
advice if it had recommended he remain in the scheme. Ive considered this carefully, but Im 
not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out of the B scheme, against 
Quilters advice. I say this because Mr M was an inexperienced investor with at best a 
balanced attitude to risk. But he was taking a risk with his B pension funds by putting those 
in a SIPP. So, if Quilter had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the B 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that 
advice. 
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if Quilter had given suitable advice.
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr M retired at age 65. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits 
at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Quilter may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr M 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman