DRN-2895877
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) should cover the cost of a 
cancelled trip as the insurer of the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) travel 
insurance policy would not cover his claim.
What happened
Mr K and his family unfortunately had to make a claim on the travel insurance provided by 
his URCA.This was because he was unable to travel abroad in April 2020 due to the 
pandemic. 
Mr K contacted the insurer. But says he was told by the insurer that his claim wont be 
covered by the URCA travel cover. Unhappy with how the claim was handled Mr K submitted 
a complaint against Halifax. 
Mr K says that Halifax should be held responsible for the decision of the URCA travel insurer 
because he pays the monthly URCA fee to Halifax. 
Our adjudicators considered Mr Ks complaint and they concluded that Halifax should not be 
held responsible for the decision made by the travel insurer to decline the claim. Mr K 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered 
everything that has been provided. I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly I need to make it clear that as this complaint is against Halifax, I can only consider 
whether it did anything wrong or acted unreasonably in relation to this matter. So, whilst I 
understand that Mr K is unhappy with how the insurer dealt with his claim, Im unable to 
address whether the insurers decision to decline his claim was reasonable or not.  
Mr K says that Halifax mis-sold him the product because it promised him that the URCA 
travel policy would cover him for every travel eventuality. However, I dont find it likely that 
Halifax said this to him - because no insurance policy (of any type) covers for every 
eventuality. All insurance policies have exclusions and limitations restricting what cover they 
provide. 
My understanding of this complaint is that Mr K feels as though Halifax should be held 
responsible for his travel claim being declined. He says this because it is Halifax who he 
pays the monthly fee to for the URCA and says that the insurance contract is between him 
and Halifax. And Mr K says that hes essentially been charged for services that Halifax could 
not deliver. 
However, the monthly account fee Mr K has been charged is not just for the travel insurance. 
The monthly account fee is for the package of URCA benefits as a whole. In April 2020, I 
understood the URCA also included other benefits such as breakdown cover, home 
emergency cover, mobile phone cover. And the account is sold as a package, so Mr K was 
unable to pick and choose what the account comes with. So I cant say that Halifax has 
failed to deliver the benefits that it had charged Mr K for, as hes had the benefit of all of 
those account features should he wish to rely on them  including the travel insurance, 
although of course, only for events specifically covered by the policy.
Although I understand the reasons why Mr K says the contract is between him and Halifax, 
that is not actually the case in this situation. 
The account terms and conditions explain that: We [Halifax] use a range of third party 
providers for the benefits which come with our Ultimate Reward Current Account. We act as 
an insurance intermediary on behalf of these insurers in marketing, offering and providing 
these policies.
And the URCA travel terms and conditions specifically say: Your policy is a legal contract 
between You and Us. And the definition of Us in the policy gives the name of the travel 
insurer and not Halifax or Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Given the above, I am satisfied that the travel insurance contract is not between Mr K and 
Halifax, it is actually between Mr K and the travel insurer. And therefore it is the travel insurer 
who is responsible for how the claim was handled.
I can see that, in his response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr K was frustrated that he 
waited months for our service to then tell him that he should complain to the insurer, and not 
Halifax, if he was unhappy that his claim was not accepted. But in its final response letter, 
Halifax did make it clear that he should direct his complaint to the travel insurer and provided 
the telephone number for the insurer. And the account terms and conditions do explain how 
you can complain to one of the third-party product providers as well. So what the adjudicator 
said was not new information, and it was up to Mr K whether to follow the advice he was 
given by Halifax in the final response letter. 
So, having reviewed everything, I do understand Mr Ks frustration with the circumstances he 
found himself in. And I am glad to hear that he was eventually able to recover the majority of 
his costs from the airline in the end. But overall, I cant say that Halifax has done anything 
wrong or acted unreasonably in this matter, as it is not responsible for how Mr Ks travel 
claim had been handled. 
Because of this, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Halifax to refund the account fees 
or pay Mr K for his unrecovered travel costs.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman