DRN-4152019
The complaint
Dr R complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled a claim 
he made after his car was hit by a third party. 
What happened
Dr R has a motor insurance policy with Admiral.
Unfortunately he was involved in a road traffic accident. Dr R says he was at a junction 
checking both left and right before moving forwards, intending to turn right. Dr R says the 
road is an S-bend and the third-party came around it and hit his car. 
Dr R says the third-party was driving too fast and as a result his car was hit. Dr R says the 
other car was going at around 40mph which, although is the speed limit of the road, is too 
fast for the bend in the road. Dr R says the third party made no attempt to avoid a collision. 
Dr R says he complied with the law in that he checked the road in both directions and 
observed it was clear from traffic before he moved out. 
Dr R complains Admiral said the accident was his fault which he disagrees with. As a result 
of this he lost his no claims bonus of which he had in excess of 20 years and had to pay his 
excess of £500. 
Dr R wasnt happy with how Admiral handled the claim and so he made a complaint. 
Admiral said based on the incident circumstances it was satisfied the correct liability decision 
had been made. It said at the time Dr R pulled out of the side road the onus was on him to 
ensure it was clear to do so. Admiral said Dr Rs no claims bonus would be reduced in line 
with its terms and conditions and his excess would be payable. 
Dr R disagreed with Admirals response to his complaint and so referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said Admiral were entitled to settle 
the claim on Dr Rs behalf in line with the policy terms and conditions. The investigator said 
as a result of the claim being a fault claim Dr Rs no claims discount is impacted and he 
would be liable to pay any excess under the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know that this will come as a 
disappointment to Dr R. 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Dr R. Ive no 
doubt Dr R has done all he can to try and prove his claim and has acted in good faith when 
reporting the accident to the insurer. I can understand why he thought the accident 
circumstances, witness testimony, and his own account of what happened would be enough 
to show the third party was at fault for the accident. And when the claim was recorded as a 
fault claim I think this would have both shocked and upset him. 
But its not for me to decide who was responsible for the accident. Its important to explain 
my role here is to look at whether Admiral acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and within 
the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. Decisions on responsibility 
and matters such as whether someone was speeding and/or driving without due care and 
attention are best dealt with by the courts. 
In the terms and conditions of the insurance policy Admiral is, entitled to conduct the 
investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf. And this is what it has 
done here. Because of this Admiral didnt need Dr Rs agreement or approval to accept 
liability. But I would expect it to base any decision on things such as the version of events 
provided by Dr R and the third party, evidence provided to support or challenge the version 
of events, legal precedent, legislation, and the Highway Code. 
There was one independent witness who confirmed the third-party was driving at around 
40mph which Dr R says was the speed limit. There is no CCTV and the police didnt attend 
the scene. 
Dr R was turning right out of a side road and crossing a road where the speed limit was at 
least 40mph. Dr R says the other car was travelling at speed but there is nothing to show 
what the actual speed was at the moment of collision. Dr R says his view was also obscured 
by overhanging trees and hedges. 
Admiral explained that it was Dr R who was expected to exercise caution, the onus was on 
him, because he was the one pulling into the path of the other driver, who was already 
established on the road. Because of this I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decide 
liability the way it did. 
Ive considered the information provided to me by Dr R and Admiral. I must say I empathise 
with the position Dr R now finds himself in. Unfortunately I dont think thats due to Admiral 
and its handling of the claim. 
Excess and no claims bonus (NCB)
The policy defines excess as The amount you must pay towards any claim. And so Dr R is 
liable to pay the excess and so I cant say Admiral has done anything wrong here. 
Dr Rs policy says, if a claim is made against your policy, your no claims bonus will be 
reduced. And since a claim was made against the policy Admiral have reduced the NCB. I 
know Dr R feels strongly about this since hes a careful driver with over 20 years NCB. But 
the only way the claim wouldnt affect his NCB would be if the incident wasnt Dr Rs fault 
and Admiral had recovered its money in full, and this hasnt happened here. So the NCB 
was reduced correctly and in line with the terms of the policy.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Dr R but overall I think Admiral has acted in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Admirals decision to accept liability was made with full regard to all of the evidence and 
circumstances of the accident and was taken in line with the terms of the policy.  My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Dr Rs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman