DRN-4071096
The complaint
Mr J complains Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Chase de Vere) 
overcharged him fees on his investment portfolio. 
What happened
Mr J agreed to pay Chase de Veres 1% annual fee on his portfolio by direct debit. He didnt 
want this to be deducted from his portfolio. The direct debit payments started but the fee was 
also deducted from his portfolio. So he was double charged. 
Chase de Vere agrees Mr J was overcharged and agreed to resolve this by refunding the 
direct debit payments for the period in which they were duplicated by deductions from his 
portfolio. This was the period September 2017 to April 2020.
Chase de Vere also offered to pay Mr J 8% interest on the refund. This was in place of the 
investment growth lost on the fee amounts when these were deducted from his portfolio. It 
also offered him a payment for inconvenience.
I wrote to Chase de Vere saying I thought it should consider offering Mr J an inconvenience 
payment of £300 in addition to the fee refund it had offered  and that the interest it should 
pay should run until the refund was made, to bring the figures up to date since its original 
offer. I said this was likely to significantly increase the amount being offered for interest. 
Chase de Vere agreed to offer this settlement. Mr J was also willing to accept this settlement 
as long as he could see an updated calculation from Chase de Vere to confirm his 
understanding of the likely figures. Chase de Vere didnt wish to do a new calculation without 
knowing that the proposed settlement would be agreed. 
Both Chase de Vere and Mr J have suggested a final decision be issued as the settlement 
couldnt be agreed. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it is one that I need to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ive decided Chase de Vere should 
refund to Mr J the excess fees he paid by refunding the duplicate direct debit payments and 
paying interest on these as redress for lost growth on the fees deducted from his portfolio.
On balance Ive decided the offer to pay 8% interest to Mr J on the refund is fair and 
reasonable compensation for this lost growth.
In reaching this view I note that working out the lost growth exactly would be an onerous 
enterprise in the context of the relatively modest sums that Im satisfied would likely be 
involved. I also note that Mr J no longer raises objections to this form of settlement in 
substance or principle. 
I also note and have drawn to Mr Js attention that the direct debit for the fees wasnt 
adjusted each year as it should have been to reflect changes in the portfolio value - and that 
the fee deductions implied by this settlement would reflect the actual monthly deductions 
made from the portfolio based on its actual value, which I think are likely a fair reflection of 
the fees Mr J wouldve paid had the direct debits been adjusted properly. 
In reaching my view I have also noted, and drawn to Mr Js attention when assessing the 
adequacy of the 8% figure Chase de Vere proposed, that interest is taxable and that if the 
redress were paid to his portfolio to restore its value, its likely he would incur charges or 
costs on that payment. I have also noted the likelihood that before allowing for that tax and 
those costs, a return of 8% is more generous to Mr J than an exact calculation of the growth 
lost on the fees deducted from his portfolio  based on the information Ive been provided so 
far. I note that Mr J will be aware of how his portfolio value rose or fell over time. 
Ive also decided Chase de Veres error caused Mr J inconvenience. In particular it told him 
about the error but then didnt act to correct it until Mr J chased this some months later and it 
still wasnt resolved a considerable while later, in part due to reasonable concerns raised in 
Mr Js mind, which werent adequately addressed, about the adequacy of the redress offer. 
So Ive decided Chase de Vere should also pay Mr J redress for the inconvenience its error 
caused him.
My view on what is a fair and reasonable settlement is reached with all Ive said above in 
mind. I uphold Mr Js complaint to the extent and on the basis Ive outlined above.
Putting things right
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should put things right by refunding 
to Mr J the direct debit payments paid for fees on his portfolio in the period September 2017 
to April 2020. 
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should pay Mr J simple interest at 
the rate of 8% gross per year on each refunded direct debit payment from the date each 
direct debit payment was paid to Chase de Vere until the date of this decision. 
The amount of the direct debit payment attributable to Mr Js portfolio, and that should be 
refunded to him under the terms of this award, should be treated as the proportion of the 
direct debit payment that is equal to the proportion Mr Js portfolio made up of the combined 
joint value of his and his wifes portfolios as at May 2017. I use this date as it is one for which 
we have figures and Ive received no objection to its use from either party.
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should also provide Mr J with a 
breakdown of its redress calculation in a clear and comprehensible form so that he can see 
that the amount paid is in accordance with the terms of my award here.
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should also pay Mr J £300 for the 
inconvenience its error caused him. 
If Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited does not pay the redress above to 
Mr J within one month of receiving from us notification of Mr Js acceptance of my award, 
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should also pay Mr J simple interest 
on any outstanding amounts at the rate of a 8% gross per year from the date of this decision 
until the date the redress is paid to Mr J. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should put things right by doing what 
Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman