DRN-3843506
The complaint
Miss S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited irresponsibly agreed to
provide her with a credit card and then subsequently increased the credit limit which was
unaffordable for her.
What happened
In June 2016 Miss S applied online for a credit card account with American Express. She
declared that she had an annual income of £42,000. American Express approved her
application and she was provided with a credit limit of £4,200.
American Express says the credit limit that was set was based on a number of factors
including the information given on Miss Ss application form as well as external information
such as that held by credit reference agencies.
In January 2017, American Express increased the credit limit to £5,000 and then in March
2018 to £9,000.
In the summer of 2019 Miss Ss account fell into arrears and a default was recorded by
American Express in the December. The account was passed to a third-party company to be
managed.
In March 2021 Miss S wrote to American Express requesting details about her account
including charges levied and repayments made. She also set out that she had concerns that
American Express had acted irresponsibly as the credit she had been given was
unaffordable and she believed she shouldnt have been approved for the credit card.
Miss S said in her complaint that although her income was £2,410pm, her bills amounted to
£2,360pm excluding any payments to the American Express account. She said had
American Express conducted proper checks into her income and outgoings it would have
found that the credit card account was unaffordable for her. She said dealing with the stress 
of struggling to make payments has had a significant impact on her.
American Express didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. It said there had been no error on its
part in approving the credit card application nor in the subsequent rises to the cards credit
limit. American Express said that it had conducted appropriate checks and that the decision
to increase Miss Ss credit limit was based on internal and external factors. It said that Miss
S had been notified of the change to her credit limit and had been given the option to opt out
of any credit limit increase offered but hadnt done so.
Miss S was unhappy at the response from American Express and complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be partially upheld. He said he
thought the checks carried out for the approving the credit card and the first increase in the
credit limit had been reasonable and proportionate. He said there werent any signs Miss S
would have found the credit agreement sustainably unaffordable.
But our investigator said that when the credit limit had been increased to £9,000 in March
2018, there had been signs that she was overindebted and struggling to reduce balances
within a reasonable time. He said she had been using most of the £5,000 limit since that limit
increase had been provided and had shown little ability during those preceding 15 months to
pay down the balance.
Our investigator also said that Miss Ss credit file had shown she had taken out two further
loans and opened another credit card since credit limit rise to £5,000. He said this showed
someone who was becoming increasingly reliant on credit and that an increase in credit for
her would be unaffordable.
Following the credit increase to £9,000, our investigator said that the statements showed
that her balance increased significantly to the point Miss S had been unable to sustain
payments on the account and she had fallen into financial difficulties. He said this ultimately
led to her defaulting on the account which he considered to be as a direct result of the credit
increase. Our investigator said that under the rules, American Express should have
assumed she would use the full credit limit immediately when assessing if the lending was
sustainable.
Our investigator said that he thought American Express had information which demonstrated
Miss S wouldnt be able to sustainably afford the credit limit rise to £9,000 in March 2018. He
said he thought it would be fair for American Express to do the following:
Rework the account to ensure that from March 2018 interest is only charged on 
the first £5,000 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided.
If an outstanding balance remained once these adjustments had been made it 
should contact Miss S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed 
from her credit file
AND
If the refund meant there was no remaining balance, any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Miss S
AND
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
Miss S agreed with the view of our investigator, but American Express disagreed. It said the
rises to the cards credit limit in 2017 and 2018 were on basis of Miss Ss annual earnings
and that she had no history of late or missed payments. It also said that Miss S had actually 
secured a loan of £17,000 and a credit card after the credit limit had been raised to £9,000 
and not before, so this wouldnt have had any impact on its decision. It said the evidence at 
that time was she had no other significant lending.
American Express said it had acted in line with the rules for responsible lending by
considering the information, it was aware of. It said from the evidence, it believed she could
repay the credit over a reasonable period of time.
American Express also said that it first spoke with Miss S about her account in
May 2019, she had advised she had changed employment and was now on a lower salary.
This was over a year after the increase to her credit limit. At that time a payment plan had
been discussed. It said that while future changes of an individuals circumstances can
sometimes be anticipated it believed it had conducted a reasonable and proportionate
creditworthiness assessment in accordance with the rules and based on the information it
had been aware of at the time. American Express said the change in Miss Ss income hadbeen unforeseen by it.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me and I
issued two provisional decisions along the following lines. 
In the first provisional decision I explained that our approach to considering complaints about 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set out on our website. Id had this approach in 
mind when considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the
credit and the consumers circumstances.
Did American Express complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss S would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
Account opening
Miss S had applied for the credit card online in June 2016. Shed declared an income of
£42,000 per year. Her credit file showed that at that time she held one other credit card
which had no reported adverse information. I hadnt seen that American Express conducted
further verification checks such as obtaining payslips or bank statements. It had considered
her credit file which showed Miss S had one other credit card with no missed payments or
late payments. There were no markers for missed or late payments with her utilities either.
While I dont know the credit limit of the other credit card, Id seen that her outstanding credit
balance in December 2016 had been £3,963 which was the amount outstanding on the
credit card she held with American Express. So, I thought it was reasonable to consider that
Miss S either had a small credit limit or hadnt made a great deal use of the card.
As the credit limit was around 1/10th of Miss Ss stated annual income and there was no
adverse information in her credit file I thought American Express checks on the affordability
of this card for Miss S had been reasonable and the repayments would have been
reasonably affordable for her.
I also thought that, based on the figures provided by Miss S in her complaint that had
American Express asked to see additional information, such as bank statements, this would
have supported its lending decision.
Looking at the income and outgoings set out by Miss S these were as follows:
Income:
£2,410pm
Expenses:
Rent £1000pm
Council tax £110pm
Bills £270pm
Food £250pm
Total: £1,630pm
This would have left Miss S with a disposable income of £780pm. I appreciated Miss S has
raised in her complaint repayments for debts in excess of £500 but this figure didnt appear
to have applied in June 2016 since there was only the other credit agreement in place at thattime.
So, I didnt think American Express had acted irresponsibly by providing the credit account
with a limit of £4,200 to Miss S in June 2016.
First limit increase
In January 2017, American Express had increased the credit limit on Miss Ss account to
£5,000. When deciding this increase American Express had taken into account Miss Ss
management of her credit card account and her credit file. It said there was no adverse
information in Miss Ss credit record, and she had made regular payments towards her
account paying over the contractual minimum amount required each month.
This had been an increase of £800 after Miss S had been managing her account for around
six months. While Miss S had been making use of the account and used around three
quarters of the balance, she had made regular monthly payments which were in excess of
the contractual monthly minimum. I thought it was reasonable to say she was managing her
account.
American Expresss credit file checks would have shown that she had acquired one
additional credit card with a limit of £200. But as her overall credit balance was the for the
amount outstanding on this card, I didnt think there was any indication Miss S had been
relying on debt or at risk of becoming overindebted. Her disposable income would have been
sufficient to repay the credit cards she had. So, I was satisfied that in light of the evidence
that American Express had carried out proportionate checks before increasing the credit
cards limit to £5,000. It was reasonable to say that this first increase was sustainably
affordable for Miss S.
Second credit limit increase
In March 2018 American express increased the credit cards limit to £9,000. American
Express said that before deciding this increase, it had considered Miss Ss management of
the card account and also referred to the information contained in her credit file.
However, this was a substantial increase close to doubling the credit limit. I thought that
when offering credit of this amount, that American Express should have conducted further
enquiries rather than relying only on information as to how Miss S had run her account and
what appeared on her credit file. Id also seen that Miss S hadnt cleared the balance of the
card and it was running close to the credit limit. Although I accepted this didnt necessarily 
mean this was a sign she was financially struggling since she had also made regular 
monthly payments above the contractual minimum. But it would have been proportionate 
and reasonable for American Express to have checked that the repayments were 
sustainably affordable for Miss S on a credit limit of £9,000.
A failure to carry out proportionate checks doesnt automatically mean that the increase in
credit was unfair and unaffordable. I have to consider what further checks would have
revealed and if the information would have altered American Expresss decision to increase
the credit limit.
And here I thought that had American Express carried out further checks it would have been
satisfied that this increase was, at that time, sustainably affordable for Miss S. This was
because by March 2018 Miss Ss overall credit borrowing appeared to have been around
£5,000 (this was the amount shown as outstanding in December 2017), she had a further
credit card with £200 credit limit and had taken out two loans with repayments of £44 and£30pm in May and August 2017. Both of these loans had also been for relatively short
periods of around two years. So, it was reasonable to think that these additional credit limits
hadnt significantly impacted on Miss Ss disposable income.
I appreciated the payments on a £9,000 credit limit would be greater than those on the credit
limit of £5,000. But when looking at Miss Ss disposable income from the figures she had
provided, then there would have been around £650pm as disposable income when taking
into account the additional credit agreements she had entered into. I thought this increase
was therefore sustainably affordable for Miss S.
Looking at the evidence that has been provided, I accepted that Miss S had and continues to
have financial difficulties from around the spring/summer of 2019. And I was sorry to
hear how stressful she has found this to be and the impact it has all had on her financial
stability. But Id seen the difficulties had arisen from her financial circumstances changing
due to the company she worked for going into administration during 2019 which was some
months after the credit increase.
Id also seen that after the credit cards credit limit had been raised to £9,000 in March 2018,
Miss S had entered into further credit agreements which would have increased the
pressures on her income. Miss S took out two other credit cards and a loan with 55 monthly
payments of £382.
I was satisfied that although American Express hadnt carried out proportional and
reasonable checks in respect of the second credit limit rise to £9,000, if it had done so then I
thought it would have been satisfied this was sustainably affordable for Miss S. I thought it
was reasonable to say that it was unforeseen circumstances in respect of Miss Ss job and
the changes to her salary which had led to the financial difficulties.
Did the lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I hadnt seen any evidence that American Express acted unfairly or unreasonably while
handling Miss Ss account and she hadnt raised any issues in her complaint. She had
missed payments and the account had been defaulted in December 2019. This was in line
with credit cards terms and conditions.
Id seen that in May and June 2019 Miss S had spoken with American Express about her
financial difficulties and she had said she needed 12 months to get straight and a payment
plan was discussed. Miss S said she had got a new job with an increased salary of £50,000
per year in June 2019.
So, for the reasons set out above and while I appreciated this would be of disappointment to
Miss S, I wasnt intending to uphold her complaint.
Miss S disagreed with my first provisional view in respect of the second increase to the credit
limit in March 2018. She also raised a further increase which American Express had 
implemented in or around November 2018 when the credit limit had been increased to 
£13,000.
In regard to the March 2018 increase, Miss S said my decision hadnt been in line with a 
decision by another ombudsman concerning a bank loan Miss S had taken out for £17,000 
which had been considered unaffordable by this service. She asked that I looked at that 
decision and also one concerning an overdraft facility from the same bank.
Miss S also said that the credit limit increase in November 2018 had been unaffordable and
American Express should have carried out further checks to ensure she was able to pay this amount back sustainably. She said this increase was unfair.
American Express said it agreed with my provisional view and that this final increase was in
its view fair. It said it looked at how Miss S had been managing her account and her credit 
file, and it had been satisfied this was affordable for her.
I issued a second provisional decision along the following lines.
Dealing first with the credit increase in March 2018, I hadnt changed my view and I 
explained why. I had read the decisions in respect of the loan and the overdraft
facility and I was satisfied that my decision hadnt been inconsistent with those findings 
because the ombudsman and investigator who dealt with those matters had both considered 
Miss Ss financial position as in August 2018, so around five months after the increase by 
American Express on the credit card limit. This had also been after she had taken out 
significant further borrowing of £17,000 for a loan and £2,000 for an overdraft.
And as set out above, although I thought American Express should have undertaken more
checks than it had when increasing the limit from £5,000 to £9,000, I still didnt think that had
it done so, there would have been anything that would have alerted it to Miss Ss becoming
over indebted. I hadnt seen any evidence that in March 2018 her income and outgoings
had altered substantially from when she had first applied for the credit card. So, even with
the additional credit she had taken out prior to the March 2018 increase I thought it was 
likely she would have had enough disposable income to sustainably pay for this increase. 
The later loan and overdraft facility hadnt existed at the point American Express made its 
decision to increase the credit cards limit and so this increase of £19,000 debt wasnt 
relevant to the decision of whether this credit increase was affordable.
I also hadnt seen any evidence that it was this increase in borrowing rather than the later
additional £19,000 that had been borrowed coupled with the change in financial
circumstances which had led to Miss Ss financial difficulties.
So, I remained of the view that the second increase by American Express to Miss Ss credit 
limit had been fair. However, in respect of this matter, both parties could provide further 
information for me to consider if they wished, but neither side needed to provide any 
information or submissions that they had already made to this service again.
Id seen that in December 2018 American Express had increased Miss Ss credit limit to
£13,000. This rise hadnt been considered in my first provisional decision because I hadnt 
been aware of it.
American Expresss said this final increase hadnt been part of Miss Ss original complaint so 
it wasnt included in the information it had provided to this service but I thought Miss S had 
been clear she had been complaining about all the credit increases on this credit card 
account.
American Express had then provided this information and so, Id considered the final
credit rise and issued a second provisional decision.
And as I didnt think American Express had carried out proportionate or reasonable checks
when increasing the credit limit to £9,000 then I also thought it should have done more than 
rely on information as to how Miss S ran her account and her credit file when making this
decision.
I was also unclear how American Express had considered this increase was affordable for
Miss S when she had significantly increased her debt liabilities by taking out an additionalloan and overdraft in August 2018 as this information had been showing on her credit record.
I thought that had American Express carried out reasonable and proportionate credit checks 
then it would have seen that this increase was unaffordable for Miss S and that her level of
debt was becoming unsustainable. She had substantially increased her overall amount of
debt by this point and with an increase to £13,000 for this credit card account would have
owed well in excess of £30,000. And I thought that had American Express sought additional 
information, it would have seen Miss S wouldnt be able to sustainably cover the repayments 
on £13,000 of credit card debt in addition to her other commitments. I was therefore 
intending to uphold this part of Miss Ss complaint.
As I didnt think American Express should have increased Miss Ss credit limit from £9,000, I
didnt think it was fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which 
exceeded that limit. However, Miss S has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the 
account so I thought she should pay this back. Therefore, American Express should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £9,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss S along with
8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date
of settlement. American Express should also remove all adverse information
recorded after December 2018 regarding this account from Miss Ss credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £9,000, American
Express should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss S for the remaining
amount. Once Miss S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information
recorded after December 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from
her credit file.
As American Express has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried
out promptly.
Miss S hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my second provisional decision again, but 
American Express has disagreed with it. It says that at the time of the final increase it 
believed her income was around £42,000 a year and that her external lending was around 
£8,000 as her Miss Ss credit file hadnt revealed the true extent of the additional borrowing. 
American Express says that it was reasonable to expect Miss S to pay back around 5% of 
the credit limit and looking at Miss Ss management of her account she had been making 
regular payments and had cleared the balance in September 2018.
American Express also says that when an increase to a credit limit is offered a minimum of 
45 days notice of the proposed increase is given to the consumer. It says the increase will 
not be applied before the notice period expires, however, a consumer may choose to accept 
the offer sooner, in which case the additional lending will be granted sooner, with the 
consumers consent. In this case, the offer was made at the end of November 2018 and 
accepted by Miss S in mid-December 2018, some four weeks earlier than would have been 
the case without her intervention.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view. While I appreciate that Miss Ss credit file didnt provide the full picture of her lending at the time of this final increase and she had paid a lump sum off the 
balance shortly beforehand, I still think American Express should have done more than rely 
on these two factors when making this lending decision.
As explained above, I think American Express should have made further enquiries at the 
time it increased the credit limit to £9,000 in March 2018. This was because it was a 
substantial increase from the original credit limit and Miss S had run the account close to the 
credit limit. However, I also thought that had it made these proportionate and reasonable 
enquiries at that time that I didnt think that it would have uncovered information that would 
have led to a conclusion the increase was unaffordable for her. This was based on the 
figures Miss S had provided about her income and outgoings at that time.
Ive seen that Miss S continued to run her credit card account close to the limit following the 
increase to £9,000 until September 2018 when she paid a lump sum of over £7,000 towards 
the balance. However, I think this payment was more likely than not linked to the loan she 
had taken out in August 2018. 
American Express says this lump sum payment shows Miss S was managing her account 
well and that she could afford the increase to £13,000. It also says that looking at her credit 
file, this had shown external borrowings far lower than the amount she had actually 
borrowed. But I dont think this lump sum payment together with the amount of her external 
borrowing that was shown on her credit file meant that American Express didnt need to 
make further enquiries about her income and outgoings when making a fair lending decision. 
It would have been proportionate and fair for it to have asked more because this was a 
substantial increase of credit and the history showed that Miss Ss credit account usually ran 
close to the limit. I dont think her income alone made this increase reasonable.
Had American Express asked for more information then it would have learnt about the true 
extent of Miss Ss borrowings which included two further credit cards, a loan and an 
overdraft. I think looking at this information American Express would have considered an 
additional credit amount of £4,000 to be sustainably unaffordable for her.
While I appreciate Miss S accepted the offer to increase her credit limit and she has a 
responsibility to ensure she can repay what she borrows, I dont agree that this means 
American Express doesnt have any responsibility for making that offer. I think its 
understandable that those facing pressing financial situations will accept credit that they may 
not be able to sustainably afford. As set out above, had American Express made 
proportionate and fair enquiries before increasing the credit limit then it wouldnt have offered 
that additional amount to her.
Im therefore partially upholding Miss Ss complaint in respect of the final credit rise to her 
credit card account in December 2018.
Putting things right
Im asking American Express to do the following:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £9,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss S along with
8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date
of settlement. American Express should also remove all adverse information
recorded after December 2018 regarding this account from Miss Ss credit file.Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £9,000, American
Express should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss S for the remaining
amount. Once Miss S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information
recorded after December 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from
her credit file.
As American Express has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried
out promptly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint in respect of the 
final credit rise applied to her credit card by American Express Services Europe Limited. I 
am asking American Express Services Europe Limited to do the following:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £9,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss S along with
8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date
of settlement. American Express should also remove all adverse information
recorded after December 2018 regarding this account from Miss Ss credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £9,000, American
Express should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss S for the remaining
amount. Once Miss S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information
recorded after December 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from
her credit file.
As American Express has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried
out promptly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman