DRN-1678354
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) provided poor 
service in dealing with a claim made on his motor insurance policy by another driver. 
What happened
Mr S says that in August 2019 the driver of a car hed driven past said hed caused damage 
to it. Mr S could see that the bumper of the other car had detached from the bracket, but as 
he hadnt heard a collision noise, he didnt accept that his car had caused it. He clipped the 
bumper back on, but says the other driver kicked it off again. They then exchanged contact 
details and spoke the next day, when the other driver said he wouldnt be making a claim.
In December 2019 Mr S contacted his broker about another policy and was told that a claim 
had been recorded against him due to an incident in August 2019. He said LV hadnt 
contacted him before settling the claim, but LV told him it had called and had sent a letter to 
him on 28 August 2019. It said as it hadnt heard from him, it settled the claim. 
Mr S said LV advised Mr S to cancel the second policy, so he wouldnt have to declare an 
enforced cancellation to future insurers. It said that policy was taken out when there was an 
undisclosed claim, which wasnt acceptable to LV. But it said hed get a refund of most of his 
premium. When Mr S contacted his broker, he found that charges were taken from the 
refund, which meant he only got a small sum back, so he was unhappy about that.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. She said the refund issue should be 
addressed by Mr Ss broker and set up a separate complaint about that. She thought LV had 
acted reasonably in settling the claim. She said Mr S was required to inform LV about any 
damage. And although LV couldnt show it had called Mr S before making its decision, it had 
shown that a correctly addressed letter was produced on its system on 28 August 2019.
 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He said there was no evidence that an accident 
had taken place and nothing to show that LV had tried to contact him. A second investigator 
reviewed Mr Ss complaint and also thought it shouldnt be upheld, Mr S said he had two 
witnesses to verify his account and wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says he didnt report the incident in August 2019 because there wasnt an accident and 
therefore there was no damage. But from his account of the event, after the cars passed 
each other the other driver sounded his horn, which is why Mr S pulled over and went to 
speak to him. It seems the other driver made it clear that he believed a minor collision had 
occurred, as the bumper on his car was displaced - and that Mr S was to blame for it. 
In circumstances like this, I think it was always possible that the other driver would report the 
incident. And Mr Ss policy required him to report any incident or damage to LV anyway. I 
think he should have done so, if only to say that another driver was claiming that his car had 
been damaged. LV would then have been fully prepared for a potential claim.  
 
One of Mr Ss concerns is that LV didnt contact him about the claim before settling it. LV 
hasnt been able to show that it called Mr S, so I think its fair to disregard that call. But its 
computerised records show that a letter correctly addressed to Mr S was produced when LV 
said it was. Mr S says a letter can be backdated - and that even if one was produced, human 
error may mean it wasnt sent. But theres nothing to show that LV tried to alter the 
computerised record  which I think would have been hard to do. And LV would have had no 
reason not to contact Mr S, as he might have been able to help it to defend the claim. 
Human error cant be ruled out, but we think if an insurer can show that a letter was 
produced, its more likely than not it was sent. The insurer cant be blamed if it wasnt 
received. Given the nature of Mr Ss business, I think if hed got the letter, hed have called 
LV straight away. But I dont think he can show that LV was at fault - and Im not sure what 
difference it would have made had Mr S got the letter anyway. 
Mr S relies on the fact that he and his passengers didnt hear a collision and that there was 
no damage to his car. So thats what hed have told LV in August 2019. But the damage was 
minor, and there may not have been much to hear. It isnt unusual in minor accidents for one 
of the cars not to be damaged. And Mr Ss passengers cant be regarded as independent 
witnesses (neither could any passengers in the other drivers car). 
I think LV was faced with what seemed to be a credible claim in August 2019. Its business 
file shows that after it got Mr Ss version of events in December 2019, it contacted the other 
insurer and argued that liability should be split equally. It appears that the other insurer 
refunded half the cost of the claim to LV. But as LV couldnt show that Mr S wasnt involved 
at all in causing the damage, he still had a fault claim on his record. I think that was always 
likely to be the outcome of the claim, even if Mr S had given LV his account earlier.
  
I think LV helped Mr S by advising him to cancel the second policy, so he didnt have a 
cancellation by an insurer on his record. That would have meant his future premiums would 
have been higher. The deductions made from the returned premium is an issue for Mr Ss 
broker. As I dont think LV acted unreasonably in relation to this issue, or in the way it dealt 
with the claim on Mr Ss policy, Im not going to uphold his complaint.   
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
17 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman