DRN-4410713
The complaint
Ms B and Mr P are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) havent reimbursed the 
repair costs under their home emergency policy for a leaking water supply pipe.
Any reference to Aviva includes reference to respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Ms B and Mr P had a leak on their water supply pipe, but the damaged area of 
pipe was found to be under the neighbours driveway.
The neighbour didnt give permission for their driveway to be disturbed for the 
repairs as Aviva could only promise a patch repair to the tarmac on the driveway. 
Due to this, Aviva couldnt repair the leak it advised Ms B and Mr P to instruct 
their water authority, as it would be able to enforce the repairs if it needed to.
The water authority was able to carry out repairs without disturbing the 
neighbours driveway and said that Aviva wouldve been able to do the same 
works.
Ms B and Mr P asked Aviva to refund their repair costs however it declined, 
saying it hadnt confirmed it would cover the costs, but said it would assess it 
alongside the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that the 
works the water authority carried out wouldnt have been covered by Aviva under 
the policy, and that it couldnt proceed without the neighbours consent which is 
also required under the terms of the policy.
Ms B and Mr P disagreed with our investigators outcome. They said theyd been 
reassured in phone conversations with Aviva that it should allow the water 
authority to carry out the repairs and the costs would be reimbursed.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is what are Aviva responsible for covering, under the policy that 
Ms B has taken out. Having looked at the plumbing and drainage plus terms and conditions, 
it sets out what is and isnt covered, along with policy exclusions.
The policy says:
What is covered?
Water Supply Pipe. You are covered for a leak or blockage in your water supply pipe. An 
engineer will locate the leak or blockage and repair, replace or unblock the affected section 
of the water supply pipe. This will include the permanent reinstatement of any excavations 
carried out as part of the claim. (Bold is my emphasis) 
From what Ive seen the water authority didnt just repair the leaking section of the pipe. It 
had to carry out a full replacement of the pipe and reroute it so as not to dig up the 
neighbours drive. This isnt covered by Avivas policy as the intention of it is to fix the leak or 
blockage, and not install unaffected parts of the pipe. Im satisfied that the works the water 
authority carried out went beyond what Avivas policy covers.
Its not disputed that the leak was located under the neighbours driveway, and Im satisfied 
that for Aviva to have carried out a repair or replacement on just the affected section of pipe, 
it wouldve had to have disturbed the neighbours driveway. 
Ive considered that the neighbour wouldnt allow access and the following applicable policy 
term:
What isnt covered
n) any work required on a water supply pipe outside the boundary of your property where 
you share legal responsibility of the water supply pipe with any third party(i.e.) who does not 
agree to the work being completed by our engineers
As the neighbour didnt consent to the necessary works that would impact their driveway, the 
policy couldnt respond due to the above term.
Ive considered Ms B and Mr Ps comments around what was discussed on the phone with 
Aviva, and I appreciate that they were left with the impression that the works could be 
covered under the policy. Our service hasnt been provided with the call recordings however 
I dont consider I must listen to them. I say this because even if the calls supported Ms B and 
Mr Ps recollections, this wouldnt change the crux of the complaint which is the works they 
had carried out arent covered under the policy. Even if incorrect advice had been provided, 
this wouldnt result in the claim automatically being covered. And here, its evident the works 
wouldve always needed to be carried out, so it hasnt changed anything other than 
potentially mis-managing expectations.
But taking that into account, Im also satisfied that Aviva did inform Ms B by email that 
reimbursement details would need to be assessed first and it also sent its guidance for this, 
which said the invoice would be considered, and that it will only reimburse for the works 
done under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Im persuaded that given the circumstances with their neighbour, Ms B and Mr P wouldnt 
have had any other choice but to carry out the reroute of the pipe. As this isnt something the 
policy covers, Im unable to instruct Aviva to cover the costs so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman