DRN-3230163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Nationwide Building Society (previously Nationwide Anglian) mis-
sold them an endowment policy for repaying their mortgage. They say they werent made 
aware of the risks associated with the policy; they were led to believe it would repay the 
mortgage and provide an additional lump sum.
Mr and Mrs C are represented in their complaint by a claims management company. 
The full details of this complaint as well-known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr and Mrs C were sold the policy in July 1989 to repay their mortgage. They were 
first time buyers, both in employment and they didnt have any dependents.  The 
policy was set up to achieve £35,000 over 25 years and it was invested into the With-
Profits fund. 
Mr and Mrs C repaid their Nationwide mortgage in 1997.  They paid their last 
premium to the policy in March 1998 and in May 1999 it was cashed in for £6,683.00.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs C complained about the sale of the policy. Nationwide didnt 
uphold it. Although there was limited information available, it was satisfied the low 
risk investment would have been considered suitable. And the only guarantee was 
the death benefit and the basic sum assured within the policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it either. They hadnt been provided with any evidence 
that a guarantee had been given and they werent persuaded the policy had been 
sold incorrectly. 
Mr and Mrs C have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so. I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
There is limited information available from the time of the sale, which isnt surprising 
given the policy was cashed in, in 1999 and business data protection obligations. But 
I havent seen any persuasive evidence Mr and Mrs C were given a contractual 
guarantee that the policy would achieve a set amount at maturity. And no such 
guarantee exists within the terms of the policy itself. I accept the endowment was 
probably sold in a positive light, but that isnt sufficient for me to agree a binding 
guarantee was given. 
The policy was invested into the with-profits fund. The with-profits fund is generally 
accepted within the industry to be a low-risk investment area. It would have been 
suitable for someone who was willing and able to accept a low level of risk. 
Mr and Mrs C were first-time buyers, so I accept they wouldnt have had much 
mortgage experience. And it doesnt appear they had any investments at the time 
either, so they would have been inexperienced in this area too. But that doesnt 
automatically mean a low risk investment is unsuitable. Given their circumstances, 
that they were both in employment and they didnt have any dependents at the time, 
Im satisfied they were in a position to accept a low level of risk. I therefore dont find 
the investment area was unsuitable for them.   
The policy also included life cover. As the policy was being used to repay a 
mortgage, Im satisfied it was suitable to protect that liability in the event of death of 
either of the borrowers. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold and so I wont be asking 
Nationwide to make any award. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman