DRN-2003158
 
The complaint
Mr J complains about what happened when he tried to make a payment from his account 
with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr J was planning to make a large purchase. He had the money in his Barclays current 
account ready to do that, but Barclays made a number of mistakes, which meant that a 
process normally taking only about half an hour took three hours. He was given wrong 
advice before he went to make the purchase, and when he arrived there, as part of trying to 
resolve his payment problems.
Mr J said he had to take a taxi home and back before he could complete his purchase. Then 
finally, Barclays blocked the payment for security reasons, although he said it only asked 
him the same questions over again.
Mr J said Barclays had offered him £150 for the inconvenience, and £40 to cover his taxi 
fare. He turned that down, and complained to us.
Barclays accepted it had made a number of mistakes, but it thought it had made a fair and 
reasonable offer to make up for what had gone wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that much of the 
confusion in this case, and the resulting inconvenience to Mr J, was caused by Barclays 
failing to check how long Mr J had had the Barclays app. If it had done that at different points 
it wouldve known that the advice it was giving Mr J was unhelpful, and wouldnt work. Our 
investigator said though that the final delay to Mr Js payment was for security checks, and
he didnt think Barclays made a mistake by carrying those out.
Our investigator thought that what Barclays had done to make up for this was fair. He said 
our service isnt here to punish banks, and that Mr J could see on our website how wed 
resolved similar complaints. He wouldnt ask Barclays to take any further action.
Mr J said that our investigator had got some of the details of his complaint wrong. And he 
said hed complained about the security delay only asking the same questions as before. 
Our investigator noted that Mr J didnt seem to have mentioned this before. Mr J wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened to all the calls Mr J had, when he was setting up and making this 
payment. Ill go through these in turn.
On 25 September, Mr J spoke to Barclays about the best way to make this payment.
Barclays didnt actually answer this question directly, rather, it asked him whether he 
was going to make the payment on his card. There was then some confusion over 
the card number. Once this was resolved, Barclays suggested he call on the day to 
put a large transaction marker on the account. The call handler also said that in 
future he could call Barclays directly from his mobile banking app.
I understand Mr J recalls being told on this call that the best way to pay was through 
the app, but both this and the following call suggest to me that he had intended to 
take his bank card with him on 26 September. He just forgot it. However, that doesnt 
change the overall position on 26 September, when Mr J was given unhelpful advice.
On 26 September, Mr J rang again to say that he wanted to make a payment through 
a bank transfer, and asked if he could pay through the app. He was asked if this was 
the first time hed paid this company, but he said he had already paid the seller a 
deposit. So he was told he could make his payment through the app, and that he 
could call through the app if he wanted to. Or he could be sent a one-time passcode 
and Barclays could make the payment for him. Mr J said hed left his card and 
PINsentry machine at home, but Barclays said he could still make the payment.
I think the advice Mr J was given on this call about being able to pay through the app 
was based on a misunderstanding. Barclays had asked him whether hed made a 
payment before, and he said yes. Barclays clearly didnt realise on this call that the 
previous payment Mr J had made wasnt made through the app, and Mr J would 
need to set up a new payee to pay the seller. Its particularly unfortunate that this 
misunderstanding occurred at this point, because instead of simply returning home to 
collect his card, Mr J then spent quite some time trying to make a payment which he 
simply wasnt going to be able to make.
Mr J then rang back to say that he couldnt set up a new payee. Mr J was told he 
couldnt do that on the call, because of the level of security he was at. The advisor 
wrongly suggested Mr J could call back through the app. Mr J didnt want to do that, 
but was told that his only other options were to either go home and collect his laptop, 
or go to a branch. That was especially poor service, as Barclays was aware at this 
stage that Mr J had only just installed the app, so it shouldve realised this wasnt 
going to work.
Mr J apparently tried to call through the app, but wasnt able to get through. He rang 
back, and it was at this stage that he was told he couldnt call through the app, 
because hed only just installed it. He then realised he was going to need to return 
home.
Once Mr J finally made his payment, the payment was blocked for security reasons. 
This was a large transfer, and Barclays paused this payment for extra checks. Mr J 
has complained that he was only asked the same security questions on this call as 
on earlier calls. I can hear from the start of the call that Mr J was cleared through 
security and then told hed need to clear security again. But I can also hear that Mr J 
was then asked a number of questions on this call intended to establish whether this 
payment could be part of a scam.
I can quite understand Mr Js frustration at having to repeatedly clear security, then 
asked yet again if he really wanted to make a payment that hed been trying to make 
for most of the morning. And I know this was a long call, during which he spent some 
time on hold. But I do still think that this kind of call is an important part of keeping 
customers accounts safe, so I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong by 
referring this for extra checks.Ive considered Mr Js complaint carefully. I think he had initially thought to make a 
large payment using his card. On the way to make the purchase the next day, he 
realised hed forgotten his card, and was wrongly reassured that he could make the 
payment a different way. This initial error was based on a misunderstanding, which I 
think, having listened to this call repeatedly, is understandable. So I dont think this 
first call on 26 September was particularly poor service by Barclays. But I think there 
was particularly poor service on the next call, which then prolonged the problem for 
him. And finally a stop on the payment, which I dont think was a mistake, further 
increased the length of time this all took.
I note Barclays has offered Mr J a payment of £150, and £40 to cover taxi fares. Mr J 
would like Barclays' staff to receive better training. Thats not something that our 
service can require Barclays to do, we arent a regulator. All I can do is look at what 
has happened, and what Barclays has offered to make up for it, and see if thats 
enough. I have to set that in the context of other awards our service makes, to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome. And in this case, I think Barclays offer does 
that. Its certainly no less than I wouldve suggested in this case, if Barclays hadnt 
already made this offer. So thats what I propose to award. I understand Barclays 
didnt in fact pay this to Mr J, but in case it has done so more recently, Ill provide that 
Barclays can count any payment its already made for this complaint towards
my award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied. 
Putting things right
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr J £150 in compensation, and 
£40 to cover taxi fares. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count any payment its already made for 
this complaint towards this award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman