DRN-3850832
The complaint
Mr B complained because Monzo Bank Limited refused to refund him for three transactions 
which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 25 April 2022 there was a £1.500 credit to Mr Bs Monzo account, from his bank account 
elsewhere. The same day, there was an outgoing £1,000 payment from Mr Bs Monzo 
account to a cryptocurrency organisation.
On 2 May, there was a £1,000 credit to Mr Bs Monzo account, from his bank account 
elsewhere. The same day, there was an outgoing £1,000 payment from Mr Bs Monzo 
account to the same cryptocurrency organisation.
On 11 May, there was a £1,000 credit to Mr Bs Monzo account, from his bank account 
elsewhere. The same day, there was an outgoing £1,000 payment from Mr Bs Monzo 
account to a different cryptocurrency organisation.
On 18 June, Mr B filled up a dispute form for the three transactions, and contacted Monzo to 
say he hadnt authorised the three outgoing payments. He told Monzo no-one else had 
access to his phone, which was protected by a password or biometrics. All three had been 
approved using the Monzo app on Mr Bs registered phone, and his PIN. Mr B initially said 
no-one else had access to his card, PIN, or phone. Monzo froze Mr Bs account and blocked 
his card so no more transfers could be made.
Monzo asked Mr B for more information. It said it had separate processes for different 
scenarios. Both processes could recover the money, but the chances reduced if the wrong 
route was chosen. Monzo told Mr B that there was one process if hed sent the money 
himself as a result of a scam, and a different process for when someone else had made the 
payment. So Monzo asked Mr B whether hed sent the money himself as a result of a scam, 
or whether the money had been sent without his knowledge.
Mr B replied that the money had been sent without his knowledge. He then said hed left his 
phone and wallet in a restaurant on 2 May around 10 am, and had got it back around 5 pm. 
Monzo asked whether there had been any other times when Mr B hadnt had his phone, and 
whether anyone else knew his PIN. Mr B said a few people knew his PIN, especially at work, 
but it had only been on 2 May that he hadnt had access to his phone.
Monzo told Mr B that it didnt agree that the transactions had been carried out by an 
unauthorised third party. It said the decision was based on the data available, and the 
timeline of transactions was suggesting it wasnt possible for anyone else to have authorised 
them. Monzo also reminded Mr B that the terms and conditions provided that it could close 
an account at any time, and it decided to close Mr Bs account the next day, 21 June.
Mr B said that hed been introduced by a friend to an investment guide. And a third party had 
accessed his device, using remote access software which was normally used for the 
maintenance of computers and other devices. He said he hadnt authorised the payments. 
Mr B complained about Monzos rejection of his fraud claim, and also because hed asked 
Monzo to trace the recipient of the payments to the cryptocurrency organisations and reclaim 
the money, which Monzo said it couldnt do.
Monzo sent Mr B its final response to his complaint on 29 June. In this, it said:
- there was a scheme to reimburse customers who had transferred money after falling 
victim to a scam. This was called the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) and 
applied to Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. These cases were where a 
fraudster deceived a customer into sending a faster payment under false pretences. 
But Monzo said that this scheme  which Monzo didnt control - only applied to faster 
payments, but the payments from Mr Bs account had been card payments. And in 
any case, Mr B had said he hadnt authorised the payments. So it couldnt use this 
scheme to refund Mr B.
- Monzo believed its investigation had been thorough, and had reached the right 
conclusion.  It had reason to believe the transactions hadnt been fraudulent, so it 
didnt have to refund Mr B.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said hed been investing with a 
company in April 2022, which had had access to his device, using the remote access 
software which was normally used for the maintenance of computers and other devices. He 
said the company also had his address and identification. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said shed considered what Mr B had 
said about the investment company which had had remote access to his device, but thought 
it was unlikely that a fraudster with full access would only have made three transactions over 
around two weeks. She also pointed out that Mr B had only been without his phone at the 
time of one of the disputed transactions, not all of them. And although Mr B had said he 
sometimes gave his phone passcode to others at work, hed also said he always changed it 
after others had used his phone. So the investigator thought it was most likely that Mr B had 
authorised the disputed transactions himself.  
Mr B didnt agree. He agreed that the transactions couldnt have happened when hed left his 
phone at work, because no-one there knew his Monzo app passcode. He said he hadnt 
known that the company he was investing with had had access to all his data through apps 
which it had required him to download  including access to his email, where they could set 
up cryptocurrency accounts in his name, to which theyd transferred the money. He said that 
even recently, someone had tried to reopen one of the accounts under his name and Action 
Fraud had told him about it, and had told him to change his driving licence.
In a phone call with the investigator, Mr B also said that hed been introduced to the 
investment company by a friend, so hed expected the phone call, and had approved the 
companys  access using the remote access software.  Mr B also told the investigator that 
Action Fraud had told him there was now a warning on the anti-fraud database CIFAS, to 
show hed potentially had his identity stolen. And Mr B clarified that the reason his work 
colleagues had his phone passcode was so they could buy things in the restaurant  but 
they didnt have Mr Bs banking app passcodes, either for Monzo or for Mr Bs bank from 
which money had been transferred immediately before the disputed transactions.
Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Monzo) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Monzo has provided the technical 
evidence to show that all three disputed transactions were authenticated using Mr Bs 
genuine card, and correct PIN, using 3D secure. So the disputed payments were 
authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that Mr B authorised the 
payments himself.
The payments were all carried out on Mr Bs registered device, using the Monzo app on the 
phone. Mr B said his phone was protected with Face ID and passcode, and so was his 
Monzo app. So Ive considered how any third party might have been able to carry out the 
payments.
Mr B initially told Monzo that no-one else had access to his phone, card, or PIN. He later 
said that hed left his phone and wallet in a restaurant on 2 May, but its hard to see how a 
third party could have accessed his phone and Monzo app when both were protected with 
Face ID and passcode. Mr B got the phone and wallet back when he went back at around 
5pm, which isnt likely to have happened if those who found it were dishonest. Also, this 
wouldnt explain the other two transactions on 25 April and 11 May.
Mr B also said that work colleagues knew his phone PIN, but said he always changed the 
PIN after someone else had used it. And after the investigators view, Mr B agreed that the 
transactions couldnt have happened when hed left his phone at work, because no-one 
there knew his Monzo app passcode.
Mr Bs theory is that the transactions were carried out as a result of a company hed been 
investing with. He said hed approved the companys access using the remote access 
software tool, which is normally used for the maintenance of computers and other devices. 
Mr B also told us that he provide the company with proof of his address, and a picture of his 
driving licence. 
But there are problems with this theory. First, there is still the problem of obtaining Mr Bs 
phone which was Face ID and passcode protected, and then accessing the Monzo app 
again with Face ID and passcode. I also dont think its likely that the use of that remote 
access software could have enabled a third party to carry out fraudulent transactions on Mr 
Bs account. And all three of the transactions were immediately preceded by transfers into 
Mr Bs Monzo account from his bank account with another bank. This shows there was clear 
balance knowledge, and its likely that it also indicates an intention to carry out the 
payments. I recognise that Mr B says he didnt make the bank transfers either  and this 
complaint isnt about his other bank, so I dont have the technical information for that non-
Monzo account. But there are still too many factors meaning that I cant see how a third 
party fraudster could have carried out the transactions. I also think that if a third party fraudster had: obtained Mr Bs phone; been able to unlock it 
despite it being Face ID and passcode protected; and had been able to access his Monzo 
account despite being Face ID and passcode protected - theyd have taken more than three 
transactions between 25 April and 11 May. Most fraudsters maximise their gains in as short 
a time as possible, before anything can be discovered and stopped.
Mr B told Monzo categorically that he didnt authorise these payments. So that rules out the 
possibility of it having been a scam, using an Authorised Push Payment (APP). 
Taking all these factors into account, I cant see how any third party fraudster could have 
authorised the transactions. So I think its more likely than not that Mr B carried them out 
himself. This means that under the Payment Services Regulations, Monzo isnt required to 
refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that  do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman