DRN-3181448
The complaint
Mr G complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Lighthouse Advisory Services 
Limited (Lighthouse) in October 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr G and Lighthouse. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits in the scheme, one of which was a transfer to 
the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. 
Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr G, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr G to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Gs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
He had accrued 31 years and 9 months qualifying service between August 1984 and 
May 2016;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in May 2016, his 
annual scheme pension was £13,893.90. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount. 
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60. 
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was 
£19,900 or a reduced pension of £13,188, plus tax-free cash of £87,923; 
In the event the BSPS fell into the PPF, the estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension payable by the PPF at age 65 was £16,467 or a reduced pension of 
£12,916, plus tax-free cash of £85,755;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £353,048.35. 
Mr G was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He contacted Lighthouse for advice. He initially met 
one of its advisers in October 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire 
were completed which recorded the following information about Mr G:
He was aged 52, in good health, divorced and two adult children who were financially 
independent. He had a partner but had no plans to live together or marry;
He was employed by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about £34,000;
His assets comprised his main residence valued at £130,000 and £2,500 in cash 
deposits. He didnt have any other savings or investments;
His liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £97,000 on his main residence and 
a car loan with an outstanding balance of about £1,300;
He had surplus monthly income of about £300 after paying for essential expenditure;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full State pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 2016. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 12% of his gross annual salary. This would 
increase in line with changes to his salary. He wanted to retire at age 65 and receive 
monthly retirement income of about £900 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms;
His risk profile was determined to be 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 was lowest risk 
and 10 was highest risk. The score of 5 was described as Low medium. This was 
defined as, While you are likely to be concerned with not getting as much back from 
your investments as you put in, you also probably want to make higher returns on 
your investments. Your preferred investments are likely to be a mix of lower and 
medium-risk investments which may include cash, cash-type assets, bonds and UK 
commercial property, and higher-risk investments such as UK and overseas shares.
In the fact find document, Lighthouses adviser noted in reference to Mr G:You told me that you would like to look at alternatives for this [safeguarded benefits 
in the BSPS] as you are concerned that upon your death your pension will die with 
you and not pass down to your family.
You also told me that you would like a pension with greater flexibility when you retire 
so that you can control your level of income around your pension needs.
You have concerns around the future of the British Steel pension scheme and feel 
that the future options will further detriment your retirement.
You told me that you have a partner and have no plans to live together or get 
married.
In October 2017, Lighthouse issued a suitability report to Mr G in which it recommended that 
he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP. The report 
confirmed Mr Gs needs and objectives as follows:
You confirmed that your objective is to work until age 65 but would consider retiring 
earlier if your situation dictated. You feel that you will require approximately £900 per 
month (in todays terms) to meet your monthly outgoings in retirement.
Lighthouse explained in its report that it recommended a transfer to a PPP because Mr Gs 
safeguarded benefits didnt offer income flexibility, flexible death benefits, succession 
planning for family, control over his investment choice or tax efficient drawdown of income.
To align with Mr Gs Low medium risk profile, Lighthouse recommended that the transfer 
value of £353,048.35 be invested equally in five different funds. The costs associated with 
the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, as follows:
Initial advice charge 
£10,591.45  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation 
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value 
0.50% ongoing adviser charge 
0.23% plus £18.75 per quarter platform charge
Investment fund charges ranging between 0.95% and 1.37% across the five 
recommended funds
Mr G accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed 
in December 2017. 
This complaint
In 2021, Mr G complained to Lighthouse about the suitability of the pension transfer advice it 
had given to him in October 2017. He said he had become worried that the advice hed been 
given was unsuitable.
Lighthouse didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that it had complied with and 
considered the FCAs rules and that it had clearly demonstrated that the pension transfer 
was in his best interests. This was because its advice had enabled him to achieve his 
income, flexibility and death benefit objectives. It acknowledged that the scheme pension wouldve met his recorded income need but the death benefits payable by the scheme 
wouldnt have enable him to pass on benefits to his children in line with his objective. In 
addition, it stated that the transfer removed the risk of his safeguarded benefits being 
transferred to the PPF which was another motivating factor for the pension transfer. In its 
opinion, no other option wouldve achieved his objectives.
One of our investigators considered this complaint. She initially gathered additional 
information from Mr G. He explained that his primary motive for transferring was because he 
was single and concerned that following his death his two adult children wouldnt receive any 
benefits from his scheme pension. But he had come to realise that there was an alternative 
option of life cover to provide a death lump sum benefit to his children, but Lighthouse had 
failed to consider and advise him on this.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld. She said that Mr G had 
provided contradictory answers on the risk profile questionnaire and that Lighthouse had 
wrongly categorised him as a Low medium risk taker. She noted that he had very limited 
investment experience and thought, based on his answers in the questionnaire, that it was 
more likely he was a low or very low risk investor. She also thought that he didnt have any 
capacity for loss. As for the critical yield figures attached to the transaction, she thought 
these indicated that it was likely Mr G would be financially worse off as a result of the 
pension transfer. And she thought that Lighthouse had failed to adequately demonstrate that 
it had considered alternative options, such as life cover, to achieve Mr Gs objectives, 
meaning he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position. Overall, she wasnt 
persuaded that it was suitable for Mr G to relinquish guaranteed income that wouldve easily 
met his recorded income need in exchange for an unknown death benefit lump sum for his 
children.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Lighthouse carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr G opted for the 
PPF (rather than the BSPS2) and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In 
addition, she said that Lighthouse should pay Mr G £300 for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable advice and the resultant disruption to his secured retirement planning.
Lighthouse didnt accept our investigators assessment and requested that the matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. Lighthouse subsequently appointed a law firm to 
represent it (the Representative). The Representative provided substantial additional 
comments and evidence for the ombudsmans consideration. Within this it stated that the 
advice given to Mr G had been assessed as suitable by an FCA-appointed Skilled Person. 
In summary, the Representative stated that that this service had applied and outdated and 
narrow approach when assessing this complaint including failing to pay due regard to the 
FCAs rules and Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) when assessing the 
suitability of the advice given to Mr G. 
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked Mr G that in the event this 
complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred redress to be calculated on the current 
methodology or the updated guidance expected to be implemented in early 2023. The 
investigator told Mr G that if we didnt receive an answer that wed assume he preferred 
redress on the current methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms 
on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. As at the date of this final 
decision, Mr G didnt confirm which option he preferred. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs Handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties. Ive carefully considered the substantial additional comments and 
evidence provided by the Representative in response to our investigators assessment. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome. Im satisfied that Ive been provided with sufficient evidence to decide 
this complaint.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Lighthouse was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it advised Mr G. This meant 
that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider the guidance in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs Handbook.
Primarily, Lighthouse was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr G. 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when Lighthouse provided its 
recommendation to Mr G were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance 
are to ensure that businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for 
their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk 
beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in 
line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary 
information for it to be confident its advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of 
COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find 
process.
There were also specific rules and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Gs case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that the comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case nolater than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
The Representative stated that our investigators interpretation of the FCAs Handbook was 
flawed, specifically in reference to COBS 19.1.6G and the starting assumption that a pension 
transfer is unsuitable. In its view, this is only guidance and businesses arent required to 
follow it. It thinks that guidance is intended to supplement the rules under COBS 9.2.1R and 
COBS 9.2.3R which set out businesses obligations for assessing suitability. It says that this 
service should therefore only be bound by the FCAs rules and not its guidance when 
deciding Mr Gs complaint.
I disagree with the Representatives position. Firstly, as Ive set out above and in                        
DISP 3.6.4R, when deciding this complaint and considering whats fair and reasonable, I 
consider several factors including regulators rules, guidance and standards. So Im not 
bound by the FCAs rules. In any event, the FCA has over the past several years repeatedly 
set out its view that it considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable and that it expects 
businesses to start by assuming that a pension transfer will be unsuitable.
Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, its my view that businesses advising on 
pension transfers should start by assuming that the existing DB pension scheme is suitable 
and to only recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded benefits into flexible 
benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests.
Mr Gs situationThe situation for Mr G wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr G. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr G had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Lighthouse.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr G to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr G, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable, when needs 
could be determined with far greater accuracy than at age 52  the PPF didnt offer these 
additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr G still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Lighthouses advice was provided in October 2017, 
after the Time to Choose pack had been issued to members. I think that the risk of the 
BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been 
approved and the BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in 
most situations that were higher than PPF benefits. Bearing this in mind together with Mr Gs 
age, circumstances and objective to retire at age 65, its my view that he wouldve been 
better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF because of the higher level of income it 
would pay at that age.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Lighthouse shouldve started its advice 
process by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr G and to 
only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Mr Gs objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr G had three broad objectives 
regarding his safeguarded benefits, summarised as follows:
Death benefits  He was concerned that, following his death, his two adult children 
wouldnt receive any benefits from his scheme pension. He wanted to ensure that 
any unused pension benefits be passed on to his children;
Flexibility  He planned to retire at age 65 but wanted the flexibility to take benefits sooner, if required. When he retired, he required approximately £900 (net of income 
tax) in 2017 terms to meet his expected monthly expenditure; and
Control  He was concerned about the future of the BSPS and the level of his 
benefits being reduced further or the BSPS falling into the PPF which would result in 
a 10% reduction in his benefits. He wanted to sever ties and have control over his 
pension benefits by transferring to a PPP.
I recognise that Mr Gs safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Lighthouse to provide expert, balanced information and 
advice, taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could 
then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client 
seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Lighthouse was tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take to achieve their objectives. Financial planning 
generally involves managing client expectations and a need for compromises. Mr G was 
relying on Lighthouse to provide expert advice. 
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time Lighthouse advised Mr G. This required it to carry out a 
transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The 
critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, 
after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension 
scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a 
lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less 
likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the 
revalued pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
Lighthouse calculated the following revalued pension figures and critical yield figures on the 
basis of Mr G taking benefits at his planned retirement age of 65:
Scheme Reduced pension and maximum  
tax-free cashFull pension only
BSPS £13,188 plus tax-free cash of £87,923
Critical yield of 6.88%£19,900
Critical yield of 9.15%
PPF £12,916 plus tax-free cash of £85,755
Critical yield of 4.72%£16,467
Critical yield of 5.13%
The revalued pension and critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was 
known at the time Lighthouse advised Mr G that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of 
benefits than the PPF but lower than the BSPS at age 65, so the figures for the BSPS2 likely 
fell somewhere in between the figures above.
Lighthouses recommendation to Mr G was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions 
in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider that they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.0% based on
Mr G taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr G's 
Low medium attitude to investment risk and the investment timeframe to age 65. Based on 
these factors, I think the critical yield figures attached to the proposed transfer were likely 
unachievable for an investor investing in line with Mr Gs attitude to risk. As result, I think it 
was unlikely that the PPP would provide benefits that matched the relinquished benefits, let 
alone exceed them. Rather, in my view, it seems it was more likely Mr G would financially 
worse off. And it seems that Lighthouse agrees because in its suitability report the adviser 
stated that the expected annual growth rate on the recommended portfolio was less than the 
critical yield figures applicable to the BSPS.
So, from an economic point of view, Lighthouse agrees with me it was likely Mr G would be 
financially worse off by transferring on a like-for-like basis when compared to the scheme 
pension.
As well as Mr G's attitude to risk, it's also important to consider capacity for loss. His 
safeguarded benefits represented 31 years and 9 months qualifying service. I think its fair 
to say that when the time came to retire, hed be heavily reliant on the value of these 
benefits to support his standard of living in retirement. I say this because Mr G had limited 
other assets at that time upon which he could rely on in retirement. I acknowledge that he 
was an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme and was on course to receive a 
full State pension, but the value of those benefits at retirement would likely represent the 
smaller proportion of Mr Gs overall retirement provision. Given the importance of Mr Gs 
safeguarded benefits, I think its fair to say that he had a very low capacity for loss because 
a reduction in the value of his benefits would likely have a materially detrimental effect on his 
standard of living in retirement. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Gs recorded 
objectives.
Death benefits objective
The evidence shows that the primary motive and objective for Mr G concerned his desire, 
following his death, to pass on any unused pension benefits to his adult children. It was 
recorded that his children were financially independent.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under age 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after age 75 the benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that 
immediately following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr G withdrew 
retirement benefits, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value.
But Mr G was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
As noted above, the value of Mr Gs safeguarded benefits would represent the backbone of 
his retirement provision by the time he came to retire. Withdrawing money from the PPP to 
meet his income and lump sum needs from age 65 would likely mean that the size of the 
fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected. 
If it was a genuine objective for Mr G to provide a lump sum to his financially independent 
children on his death, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a 
lump sum while enabling him to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that he 
had disposable income available every month after paying his bills which he couldve used to 
pay for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term 
is generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr G given he was aged 
52 and recorded as being in good health. However, I cannot see evidence that Lighthouse 
adequately investigated the life cover option. For example, I havent seen evidence that it 
quantified Mr Gs death lump sum need, over what term, how this might change over time, 
how it might be met by other means or present personalised life cover quotes to him to 
enable him to make an informed decision.
But, in any case, I understand that through his employment Mr G had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £136,000 
would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable 
regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. 
In addition, Mr Gs BSPS contributions of £50,432 plus interest at 3% compound and the 
value of his Tata Steel DC pension plan would be payable to his nominated beneficiaries.
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr G remained employed by 
Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £186,432 would be paid on his death. It appears that 
Mr G intended to remain employed by Tata Steel until he retired at age 65, so I think its fair 
to say that there wasnt any expectation the death in service benefits would disappear in the 
foreseeable future.
This leads me to conclude that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover already in place while 
Mr G remained employed by Tata Steel. 
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr G about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr G had no health 
issues at the time Lighthouse advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for his children. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit for his adult children 
who were recorded as being financially independent in any event.
Flexibility objective It was recorded that Mr G planned to retire at age 65 but wanted the flexibility to take 
benefits sooner, if required. And when he retired he required approximately £900 (net of 
income tax) in 2017 terms to meet his expected monthly expenditure.
If benefits were taken early under the BSPS (and similarly the BSPS2) then the income paid 
to Mr G would be reduced. The reduction wasnt a penalty but applied to reflect the fact that 
the scheme would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the 
interests of scheme members generally. Lighthouse characterised the reduction as a 
penalty. It also portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without the penalties which would be applied to the BSPS (and BSPS2) options. The reality 
was of course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than 65 and 
any resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately 
explained to Mr G so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early 
would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65.
While I dont doubt Mr G wouldve liked the idea of the flexibility to retire early, the evidence 
shows that his plan was to retire at age 65. Im not convinced it was suitable for him to 
exchange guaranteed income for flexible income which came with unlimited downside risk. 
Given his personal and financial situation, I think that when the time came to retire that Mr G 
would likely require a steady, secure income stream to meet his minimum income retirement 
and to provide for a comfortable retirement. 
As noted in the transfer value analysis section above, Mr Gs revalued annual pension under 
the BSPS2 at age 65 was projected to be about £13,000 per year plus a maximum tax-free 
cash sum of about £87,000. Then at age 67 he was expected to receive the full State 
pension which was about £8,000 per year in 2017/18. Therefore, had he transferred to the 
BSPS2, his income need of £900 (net of income tax) in 2017 wouldve been met by 
guaranteed and escalating income sources from age 65 onwards (and by the PPF, if 
required). In my view, where a clients income need can be met by the DB pension scheme, 
its difficult to justify relinquishing guaranteed income in exchange for flexible income that 
doesnt have any guarantees. That is, unless the prospect of an alternatively secured 
guaranteed income, by way of a transfer and then immediate annuity purchase, was likely to 
have produced a higher level of guaranteed income. But this wasnt the case here.
If the BSPS2, State pension and Tata Steel DC pension scheme generated excess income 
then this couldve been reinvested for future use which carried far less risk than the course 
of action recommended by Lighthouse.
Based on the above, its my view that there wasnt any need for Mr G to transfer to a PPP to 
achieve his income objective, especially given the high critical yield figures attached to the 
transaction and the likelihood hed be financially worse off. Transferring unnecessarily led to 
the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with providing the retirement benefits 
moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr G for the following 13-year period until age 65 
and beyond but for no clearly defined advantage in terms of achieving Mr Gs income 
objective. The evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why flexibility and the 
option of early retirement wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr G to 
relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time. Given that Mr Gs income need couldve 
been met by the BSPS2, I dont think Lighthouse clearly demonstrated why transferring was 
in his best interests in terms of meeting this objective.
Control objective
Its clear that Mr G was concerned about the BSPS and the risk that this might fall into the 
PPF. I accept that such concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it wouldve been a major motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand 
why Mr G wanted to have control over his benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
That being said, as noted above, I think that by October 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling 
into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved 
and the BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most 
situations that were higher than PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to 
the PPF was an outcome for Mr G to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr G could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of Lighthouses recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
Had Lighthouse advised Mr G to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable,
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 52. I think this is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr G had about 
the PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-
term DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the 
future, that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, 
similarly to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP 
before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate 
concern about options disappearing for Mr G or that there was an urgency to transfer to a 
PPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr G was reliant on Lighthouse 
to provide a fair and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best 
interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr G the features, risks 
and benefits of those alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr G was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Lighthouse to 
provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. In my view, the suitability 
report doesnt deal with Mr Gs concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought that a transfer 
to the PPF was an outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view a transfer 
to a PPP was the best course of action.
In summary, I think that Lighthouse failed to adequately allay Mr Gs misapprehensions and 
that he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position 
regarding the BSPS2 and PPF options.
Skilled Person review
The FCA previously required Lighthouse to appoint a Skilled Person to conduct a review of 
certain DB pension transfers that were advised on or arranged by Lighthouse. As part of that review exercise, the advice given to Mr G was assessed as suitable by the Skilled Person 
using the FCAs DBAAT. The Representative stated that the assessment by the Skilled 
Person supported Lighthouses position that Mr Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld. The 
Representative stated that this service has ignored the DBAAT outcome in Mr Gs case and 
also the methodology the FCA has stated the industry should use when assessing the 
suitability of DB pension transfer advice.
I want to address this. In deciding this complaint Im not bound by the conclusions reached 
by a Skilled Person. My role is to decide this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I havent seen any 
evidence that shows the pension transfer led to Mr G gaining any clearly defined advantage 
compared to the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. And so Im not persuaded 
that a pension transfer was clearly demonstrated to be in his best interests. So for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Notwithstanding this, the DBAAT was completed to show that Mr G wouldnt be reliant on the 
income produced by his safeguarded benefits. I disagree. He was then aged 52 and his 
safeguarded benefits represented 31 years and 9 months qualifying service. He had limited 
other assets at that time upon which he could rely to provide pension income. I acknowledge 
that he was an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme and was on course to 
receive the full State pension, but, as I set out above, its my view that he would be reliant on 
the income produced by his safeguarded benefits in retirement  in my view, without these 
benefits hed be unable to meet his essential expenditure in retirement.
If properly informed, would Mr G have transferred anyway?
In potential mitigation of Lighthouses advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr G, if placed 
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr G, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Lighthouse, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr G might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns. However, 
bearing in mind that many members transferred to BSPS2 even though such concerns were 
widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack of investment experience and attitude to risk, I 
dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on transferring. Given Mr Gs reliance on 
Lighthouse, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a recommendation for the BSPS2 had it 
advised him to take that course of action.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lighthouse to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr G been properly advised, he wouldve
opted for the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. 
While some information on the benefits of BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, I think that by 
October 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the BSPS2 was being proposed primarily 
because it could provide benefits in most situations that were higher than PPF benefits at 
age 65.
Its my view that had he been given suitable advice, Mr G wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. And so, with the aim of placing him 
into the correct financial position, I think its fair and reasonable that the benefits offered by 
the BSPS2 should be used for comparison purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the
basis Mr G takes benefits at the BSPS2 normal retirement age of 65 to align with his 
recorded circumstances.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
We previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait 
for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate 
and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G.
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions. In 
accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of this 
final decision.
Lighthouse may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P entitlement. If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Gs PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Lighthouse to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, Lighthouse should pay Mr G £300 the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable 
advice and the resultant disruption to his secured retirement planning.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date
Lighthouse receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Lighthouse to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr G any interest on 
that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr G any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G. If    
Mr G accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G 
can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited must provide to Mr G a breakdown of the loss 
assessment in a simple, easily understandable format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman