DRN-2348824
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) said her pension would escalate by 4% in 
retirement. But her pension provider has now said this is not the case.
What happened
In 1987, Mrs S met with a Lloyds adviser to transfer her Lloyds Bank Pension Scheme to a 
Section 32 held with another provider (a separate complaint is being considered against that 
provider). 
Mrs S said the adviser took her through the policy and told her she would get a 4% 
escalation in retirement on her pension. The point of sale documentation shows that Mrs S 
was given an illustration which showed:
A transfer value of £2,946 growing to a fund value of £90,743 (low investment return) 
or £140,208 (high investment return).
It showed a potential pension in retirement of £7,109 and £10,985.90 per year. 
It went on to state:
The pensions shown above are payable monthly on the 1st of each month and increase at a 
rate of 4.0% pa compound. . .
GUARANTEE
From State Pension Age, the policy will provide at least the revalued Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension of £2,943.20 pa. We also guarantee to pay any Equivalent Pension Benefits. (To 
implement the guarantee, it may be necessary to alter the mix of benefits).
There was also a policy schedule  and this set out the terms of the policy. It was divided 
into the first schedule which set out Mrs S details and the second schedule which set out the 
policy conditions. It said:
 ESCALATION PERCENTAGE RATE: 4.00% per annum compound
7 APPLICATION OF THE CAPITAL SUM
At the Benefit Date or the Substitute Benefit Date subject to the election of the Insured under 
Condition 8 so much of the Capital Sum as shall be appropriate should be applied using the 
Society's then current annuity rates to purchase an immediate pension payable to the 
Insured which shall not be less than the Guaranteed Minimum Pension
9 INCREASES IN PENSION
Pensions purchased under Condition 7 shall increase at the Escalation Percentage Rate 
specified in the Second Schedule
The rate of Increase in pensions shall not be such that the pension payable to the Insured 
which can be purchased by the Capital Sum shall be less than the Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension.
Mrs S was upset to find out that when she came to take her benefits, the provider 
wouldnt be paying the escalation.
The provider explained that the value of Mrs S policy couldnt support the cost of 
providing the GMP, so it would be topping up the value to pay the GMP. But as per the 
terms of the policy, this meant the escalation wouldnt be applied.
Mrs S is unhappy with Lloyds as she recalls asking the adviser to explain what the 
minimum pension was that she would receive. Shes told us the adviser said that she 
would receive the 4% escalation, and this was guaranteed.
She said she her retirement planning for over thirty years had been based on receiving 
the escalation in retirement on this pension.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
concluded that Lloyds hadnt misled Mrs S.
Mrs S said in response that in every conversation with Lloyds and in every quote the 4% 
escalation was included. Mrs S said this was repeatedly explained to her and at no point 
was it explained that the figures could be doctored at the end so that shed only receive 
the GMP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mrs S was under the impression she would receive the 4% escalation. At 
the time of sale all factors pointed to this being the case. The 4% escalation rate was 
included within all the documentation Mrs S received at the time, as she has pointed out. 
Mrs S complaint is based on her recollections of an event some thirty five years ago, I dont 
doubt her recollections are honest but because of the time that has passed, I cant be sure 
what she was and wasnt told. Mrs S said she was told the 4% escalation was guaranteed. 
Returns in the late 1980s far outstripped what came after and so estimated returns were 
high. Furthermore, due to subsequent changes in annuity rates the cost of providing a 
pension was much lower then, than it is now. And so, it wasnt foreseen that in transfers 
such as Mrs S there would be any concerns about the cost of the GMP. So I expect 
highlighting this concern wouldnt necessarily have been high on advisers minds at the time 
 as it couldnt reasonably have been foreseen.  So Im sure the adviser wouldve thought 
the 4% escalation would be paid.  As can be seen by the estimated returns on the 
illustration, the adviser wouldve expected that her pension would likely far exceed the cost 
of the GMP. And in that case the 4% escalation wouldve been paid.
But because of the time that has passed this is all speculation  and the strongest evidence 
we have from the time is the paperwork. And the point of sale documentation doesnt 
guarantee the escalation is paid.The illustration sets out potential income in retirement that could be achieved dependent 
on lower or higher returns. It does state the illustrated pensions would increase whilst in 
payment by 4%. However, there is a separate section titled GUARANTEE. This states 
at least the GMP of £2,943.20 per year is guaranteed. It doesnt say the 4% escalation is 
guaranteed. It also says to implement the guarantee it may be necessary to alter the mix 
of benefits. I appreciate this isnt particularly clear, but it does only guarantee the 
minimum pension.  And the policy terms back this up, as well as explaining that if the 
fund does not support the GMP, escalation wont be paid.
I can understand Mrs S must have felt angry and upset when she found out the 
escalation wouldnt be paid. But unfortunately, since the advice was given in 1987, much 
has changed  and at the time it was a reasonable expectation that the GMP cost would 
be far exceeded by the value of her fund. And in that instance the escalation wouldve 
been paid. I cant be sure what the adviser did and didnt tell Mrs S. But the point of sale 
documentation didnt guarantee that the escalation would be paid. And ultimately the 
reason the escalation hasnt been paid is due to market factors largely outside of 
anyones control. I dont think Lloyds can reasonably be held responsible for Mrs S loss 
of expectation when the event in question was 35 years ago and the written 
documentation doesnt support that the escalation was guaranteed. 
I do sympathise with Mrs S position, but I wont be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman