DRN-2514353
The complaint
Miss J complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In June 2020 Miss J was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Alphera.
Within the first 30 days Miss J experienced issues with the car including body damage and 
the windows not working. She reported the issues to Aphera and asked to reject the car.
The supplying dealer inspected the car and carried out a repair. However, Alphera agreed 
that because the fault had occurred within the first 30 days, Miss J had exercised her short 
term right to reject.
Alphera agreed to a rejection. It said that the car would be collected, the agreement would 
be ended and Miss J would be refunded her deposit.
Miss J didnt think it was fair that Alphera hadnt refunded some of her monthly payments to 
recognise the impaired use shed had of the car. She complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was satisfied that there had been issues 
with the car from the inception of the agreement and that whilst Miss J had been able to 
drive the car, her use had been impaired. The investigator said that Alphera should refund 
10% of Miss Js repayments to reflect impaired use and pay compensation of £100 for 
trouble and upset.
Alphera didnt agree. It said Miss J had accepted its offer of rejection and a refund of her 
deposit and hadnt said she was unhappy about a refund of repayments. It said it would offer 
£100 compensation but nothing further.
Miss J said shed been advised by Alphera when she accepted rejection that she could do 
so and still pursue a complaint about the repayments shed made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Alphera has accepted a rejection of the car, Im not going to look into whether the 
car was of satisfactory quality.
The essence of this complaint is whether Miss J accepted Alpheras offer of rejection and a 
refund of her deposit in full and final settlement of her complaint, or whether her acceptance 
of Alpheras offer was conditional upon a verbal assurance she says she was given that she 
could pursue a complaint about her monthly repayments. 
Ive looked at the final response letter sent by Alphera to Miss J. This acknowledges that 
there were faults with the car within the first 30 days and confirms that Miss J has a case for 
rejection. 
Where a rejection is accepted after 30 days but within the first 6 months, the finance provider 
can make a deduction for fair use. This isnt explained by Alphera in the final response letter. 
It simply says that it will collect the car, settle the finance agreement and refund the deposit.
Miss J says she raised the issue of a refund of her repayments with Alphera before she 
accepted the rejection offer. She says she was told that she wasnt entitled to a  refund 
because the mileage shed covered in the car since the point of supply was to high.
Alphera has told this service that the reason it didnt  offer to return any payments to Miss J 
was because she had exceeded her contractual mileage.
I can see that Miss J signed a document dated 9 October 2020 agreeing to accept Alpheras 
offer of rejection in full and final settlement. Alphera says that Miss J cant take her complaint 
any further because of this.
Miss J says that she specifically discussed the issue of a refund of repayments with Alphera 
before accepting the offer, and only accepted the offer on the basis of an assurance that she 
could pursue her complaint about a refund of repayments with this service. 
This service asked Alphera to provided system notes and call recordings of any discussions 
with Miss J around the time of the rejection offer. Alphera hasnt provided very much but Ive 
looked at what it has sent. A call note dated 6 October 2020 says that Miss J called about a 
refund of repayments and was told that she couldnt get any back because of the mileage. 
The note also says that Miss J said she was going to send the acceptance form back.
Alphera wasnt able to ;provide this service with call recordings so I havent been able to 
listen to exactly what was said. 
Alphera provided some emails which it had exchanged with Miss J. These emails show that 
Alphera was looking into Miss Js request for a refund of her repayments. But the emails 
dont show whether she was advised that this was something she could raise a complaint 
about having accepted the rejection offer.
Miss Js testimony is clear that she was advised that she could pursue a complaint about her 
repayments during a call with Alphera. This service has asked Alphera to supply the call 
recordings more than once, but these havent been provided. Im of the view that Miss J 
should have the benefit of any doubt here. Its clear from the system notes provided by 
Alphera that her monthly repayments were something that Miss J was unhappy about and 
there was a conversation about these only 3 days before Miss J signed the acceptance of 
the rejection. I think, given her obvious strength of feeling about the repayments, that its 
unlikely that Miss J would have agreed to accept an offer unless she thought she could 
pursue the complaint about the repayments.
On the balance of probability, Im satisfied that Miss J accepted the rejection offer subject to 
having been advised by Alphera that she could pursue the complaint about the repayments.
 
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether Miss J should receive a refund of her repayments. Its clear from the evidence that Ive seen that there were issues with the car from the very start. And 
although Miss J was able to use the car, Im of the view that the issues would have impacted 
in her use and enjoyment of the car. I think it is fair in the circumstances to ask Alphera to 
refund a small percentage  10% - of Miss Js repayments in recognition of her impaired use 
of the car.
Its not clear whether Alphera paid interest when it refunded Miss Js deposit. Im of the view 
that it should have done this, so if it hasnt, it should do so now.
Finally, its clear that Miss J has been caused trouble and upset by the issues with the car. In 
particular, shes explained that she had to travel around 180 miles to take the car back to the 
supplying dealer. This has cost her time and fuel  as well as impacting on the mileage of 
the car. I think its fair to ask Alphera to compensate Miss J for trouble and upset.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services Limited trading as 
Alphera Financial Services must:
Refund 10% of Miss Js repayments and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay 8% simple interest on the refund of Miss Js deposit from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement  if this hasnt already been paid.
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman