DRN-3247084
The complaint
Mrs G, Miss G and Mr G complain about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited has settled a 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr G brought this complaint, for ease, Ive simply referred to him throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr G took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy provided cover 
for Mr Gs family between 1 August 2019 and 31 July 2020. Mr G chose a policy which 
attracted a policy excess of £150 per person in the event of a cancellation claim.
In February 2020, Mr G booked a UK-based holiday accommodation. He and his family were 
due to stay there between 15 and 19 April 2020. The accommodation cost £740. However, 
as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and the wide-ranging lockdown restrictions the UK 
government announced on 23 March 2020, Mr Gs family had to cancel their trip. So Mr G 
made a claim for the cost of the accommodation.
Astrenska accepted Mr Gs claim and settled it. It deducted the policy excess of £150 per 
person from the settlement amount. As it appeared Mr G intended to travel with the three 
other people insured by the policy, Astrenska deducted four excesses. This meant Mr G was 
paid £140 in settlement of the claim. Astrenska acknowledged thered been a delay in 
handling Mr Gs claim, so it paid him compensation of £30 to recognise this.
Mr G was unhappy with the settlement hed been paid and so he asked us to look into his 
complaint. As hed paid for the accommodation, he didnt think itd been reasonable for 
Astrenska to deduct four excesses from the settlement amount.
Our investigator thought Astrenska had settled Mr Gs claim fairly. She was satisfied that the 
policy documentation made the applicable policy excess per person clear. As Mr G had been 
planning to travel with the other three people insured by the policy, she concluded itd been 
fair for Astrenska to apply four excesses to Mr Gs claim.
Mr G disagreed. He queried whether if hed told Astrenska he was travelling alone; it would 
only have applied one excess. The fact hed thought only one excess would be applied 
showed there hadnt been a meeting of minds when he bought the policy. He did not agree 
that individual excesses should apply in this case. Hed bought the policy and paid for the 
accommodation and who came or not wasnt the point. Hed solely incurred the financial 
loss.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, I think Astrenska settled this claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claim unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether 
Astrenska treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Gs 
contract with Astrenska. Page five of the policy sets out General Conditions which apply to 
the contract. One of these conditions says:
1. Under some sections there is an amount deducted (an excess) per incident, which 
applies to each insured person involved in an incident, as do the sums insured under each 
section. (Emphasis added).
Astrenska has set out what it means by an excess on page one of the policy, within the 
Definitions section. This says Astrenska considers an excess to be:
An amount deducted per insured person, per policy section for each incident which 
results in a claim.
As Mr G wasnt able to travel as planned, Astrenska considered the claim under the 
Cancellation section of the policy. Astrenska accepted that Mr Gs claim was caused by an 
insured event covered by the policy. But that doesnt mean that Astrenska had to pay Mr 
Gs full claim. The cancellation section also sets out a list of things which Astrenska 
specifically excludes from cover. One of these is:
1. The excess shown in the policy documentation.
Page 12 of the policy sets out the Table of Benefits. Mr G held the Traveller level of cover. 
The table of benefits states that for a cancellation claim, an excess of £150 will apply. 
Immediately underneath, an emboldened statement says:
The cover and excesses listed above will be applied per insured person, per policy section, 
for each incident that results in a claim.
The table of benefits shows that other levels of cover were available, which incurred lower 
excess amounts. However, Astrenska says that these policies wouldve cost Mr G more to 
take out if hed wished to do so.
Following the sale of Mr Gs policy, he was sent an insurance schedule, setting out the main 
details of cover. The schedule listed the four people insured by the policy. It stated that Mr G 
had selected the Traveller level of cover. And it included a summary of cover and policy 
limits which said:
All limits and excesses are applied per insured personCancellation  Excess £150.
Mr G was also sent an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which sets out an at 
a glance summary of the main features of the policy and the applicable exclusions. Page 
one of the IPID includes a section called Are there any restrictions on cover? One of the 
listed restrictions states:
Under some sections there is an amount deducted (excess) of £150, which applies per 
person, per section and per claim.In my view, the totality of the policy documentation makes it clear that this type of cover 
attracts an excess of £150 per person per claim, rather than a total excess of £150. So I 
think Astrenska has sufficiently set out when excess charges are applied and how they apply 
to potential claim settlements. 
Here, theres no dispute that four people were insured by this travel insurance policy. And it 
appears that while Mr G may have paid for the accommodation, all four insured persons 
were planning to travel and make use of it. So Im satisfied that it was fair for Astrenska to 
conclude that four excesses of £150 were to be deducted from settlement it paid Mr G. I 
dont think its acted unreasonably by relying on the clear terms of its contract with him. And 
in these circumstances, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
direct it to only apply one excess to the claim.
So overall, I find that Astrenska calculated Mr Gs settlement fairly. Astrenska accepts it 
caused unreasonable delays in its handling of this claim. Its paid Mr G £30 compensation to 
reflect this. In the circumstances, I think this is fair compensation to reflect the likely 
frustration and inconvenience these delays caused Mr G. And so it follows that Im not telling 
Astrenska to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G, Miss G and 
Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman