DRN-1962355
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996 by post. The policy was 
taken out at the same time as Mr H applied for the credit card. It gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr H says it wasnt clear the PPI was optional so he assumed he had to have it. Also, had 
he known it was optional, he would have cancelled it much sooner as his financial position 
and employment terms improved. 
But Mr H applied for the credit card by post, without any direct contact with Barclays. I have 
looked at the application form Mr H signed and this shows he indicated that he wanted PPI. 
And the options to select or decline it were set out with equal prominence. So I think 
Barclays made Mr H aware the PPI was optional, and he chose to take it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt need to check if it was suitable for 
him. This means it was up to Mr H to decide whether the policy was right for him bearing in 
mind his other ways to make his credit card repayments if his circumstances changed.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wast as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr H chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the likely exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
Mr H cant recall how much sick pay he was entitled to, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any employee benefits and for up to 12 months. He said he had some savings 
but the PPI would have meant he could have used these to cover other living expenses 
whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. Mr H also said his family 
would have helped but that's not suitable alternative protection. It's not guaranteed and 
people's circumstances can change. So, based on his circumstances and the terms of the 
policy, I think it unlikely Mr H wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
- Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair.
- To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman