DRN-3153627
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with a 
mortgage that started in 2002. Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as 
Abbey National, mis-sold them the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Santander throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought Santanders subsequent 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mr and Mrs G paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Santander should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost 
of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
A main thrust of the allegation here is that the PPI wasnt something they needed. However, 
given what Mr and Mrs G have told us  and also from using my own experience of these 
types of sale  the information Ive seen strongly implies that they agreed to add PPI to their 
mortgage at the time. I also note the policyholder was sent several letters informing of them 
of the monthly costs of the cover, and later, of the periodic changes to the premiums over 
the 11 or so years they had this policy. The notes say Mr G eventually called the insurer to 
cancel the policy in 2013, saying hed found more reasonably priced mortgage protection. So 
I think these circumstances show its more likely they consented to having the PPI when it 
initially started in 2002. The evidence is that Mr and Mrs G wanted to protect their mortgage. 
Also, although the mortgage in question was a joint one, it seems only Mr G was protected 
by the PPI cover. This implies theyd given some thought to the set-up of the policy. Im also 
afraid that their allegation that Mrs G wasnt ever eligible to have the PPI doesnt change 
anything either  thats because the sale of the PPI only applied to Mr G. Mrs G was never 
named on it, so her circumstances arent relevant to this particular issue.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G as part of an advised sale, so it 
therefore needed to ensure the policy was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs G say the policy 
wasnt suitable, but Im afraid I think it was. 
This is because Mr G was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions 
we tend to see in these policies. There is solid evidence he agreed to it and whilst I accept 
he would have had some sickness protection already through his job, this was a mortgage 
secured against Mr and Mrs Gs home. It would have paid out up to £1007 per month for up 
to a year if successfully claimed on and this would have been in addition to any other means 
they already had. This would also have been much longer than Mr Gs sick pay. I therefore 
think the PPI was suitable for their situation and recommending it to them wasnt necessarily 
wrong.
Its certainly possible the information Santander gave to Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it might have been, particularly around certain limitations of the cover. But 
overall, I think they probably had enough information on which to make an informed decision 
about what they wanted to do. The cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given at the point of 
sale. It also looks like it was affordable for them and useful if something went wrong and Ive 
seen nothing about Mr Gs health or circumstances that would have made it difficult for him 
to claim. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that claiming for certain conditions, such as back 
problems or mental health illnesses would have been excluded, as alleged by the 
representative.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs 
particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Santander doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Mr and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Santander didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs G 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs G should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Santander failed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipunfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the 
high level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Santanders failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it is fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and Mrs G with the policy Ive 
concluded above they would still have taken out if Santander had done everything it should 
have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs G an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). Santander needs to do this if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman