DRN-4092698
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc placed a block on her account which prevented 
her from making investments and led to professional costs.
Mrs H is represented in her complaint by Mr B, her attorney. 
What happened
In October 2022, HSBC placed a block on Mrs Hs bank account which in turn meant that 
several cheques made out for investments totalling more than £800,000 were returned as 
unpaid. 
Mrs H has a lasting power of attorney (LPA) for property and financial affairs which 
appointed Mr B and another individual as her attorneys and which was registered in 2017.
Mr B says he spent a significant amount of time trying to find out the reason for the delay 
before HSBC eventually agreed that Mrs Hs account should not have been blocked.
Mr B says that the other attorney, who is a vulnerable adult, was also negatively affected 
because their card was blocked. 
Mr B wants HSBC to pay his professional fees and Mrs Hs investment managers costs 
totalling just over £6,000. Mr B also wants HSBC to indemnify Mrs H for any lost business 
property relief she may have qualified for had the investments not been delayed.  
HSBC told Mr B that it placed the block on Mrs Hs account after concerns were raised by a 
third party bank. HSBC wanted to establish that Mrs Hs account was being used in line with 
the terms of the LPA. Mr B provided HSBC with a copy of an order from the Court of 
Protection (COP) issued in January 2020 which authorised a property transfer and lifetime 
gifts. After investigating, HSBC removed the block. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. In summary, she said 
HSBC received the COP document on 18 October 2022 before removing the block on 8 
November 2022. Given the large sums of money involved, our investigator didnt think HSBC 
acted unreasonably when it blocked the account. 
Mr B responded to the investigation outcome to say that HSBC placed the block on the 
account on 12 October not 18 October 2022 and that HSBC received the COP document on 
12 October 2022. Mr B said the large amount of money came after the block, so couldnt 
have been the reason why HSBC restricted Mrs Hs account in the first place. 
Our investigator went back with some clarification but Mr B remains unhappy with the 
outcome. He says HSBCs actions have led to Mrs H incurring costs and doesnt think that a 
four week delay to read one document is acceptable. Mr B says HSBC received the COP 
document on 12 October 2022 as evidenced in emails. Mr B thinks HSBC misled and 
misdirected him when enquiring about the reason for the block.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I am satisfied that under the terms of Mrs Hs account, HSBC was entitled to restrict access 
in certain circumstances. HSBC says that it took this action after a third party bank raised 
concerns after a significant amount of money was transferred from an account it held in Mrs 
Hs name. HSBC then wanted to make sure that Mrs Hs account was being used in line with 
the terms of the LPA. As HSBC didnt have sight of the COP at this point, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to have concerns over the way that Mrs Hs account was being 
used.
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr B to be provided with little information 
about the reasons behind the restriction. But until HSBC had been able to fully investigate 
the circumstances, I wouldnt necessarily have expected it to be able to share much in the 
way of detail. 
Although Mr B says that he sent HSBC a copy of the COP document by email on 12 October 
2022, we dont have a copy of this email and the first record that HSBC has of the COP 
document is the day after Mr B took it to the branch. This makes it difficult for me to decide 
that HSBC had the COP document before 18 October 2022. By this time, the cheques had 
already been presented and at least one of them had been returned as unpaid. So, the fact 
that HSBC took a few weeks to complete its investigation didnt lead directly to the cheques 
being bounced. This happened because of the restriction which had been placed on the 
account several days before.
I understand Mr B thinks HSBC took too long to remove the block. But given the large 
amounts of money passing in and out of Mrs Hs account, I dont consider HSBC was acting 
unreasonably. HSBCs notes indicate that after speaking with Mr B about the account in mid-
October 2022, it still had concerns which is why further investigation was required. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and therefore Mrs H, but I dont require HSBC to pay anything 
when it was acting in line with the terms of the account by placing the restriction. This 
includes professional costs and any kind of indemnity for future losses which may arise 
because of the investment delay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman