DRN-4332295
The complaint
Mr S complains that Skrill Limited misinformed him about a transaction on his account, which 
meant it was restricted unnecessarily. Hed like greater compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr S holds an e-money account with Skrill. The account also facilitates the exchange of 
cryptocurrency, which Mr S made use of.
On 11 March 2023 the value of one of the cryptocurrencies Mr S held was devalued 
significantly. Skrill converted the cryptocurrency to fiat currency but did not inform Mr S they 
had done this. The next day he noticed the transaction, and as he didnt recognise reported 
it to Skrill. But the Skrill representative didnt know why the transaction had taken place. 
Mr S account was restricted, and he had to go through the account recovery process which 
involved changing his contact details and submitting new identification.
Skrill later sent an email to me Mr S to explain the transaction. Unhappy with the service and 
assistance hed provided Mr S raised a complaint. Skrill explained what had happened and 
said the selling to the cryptocurrency was in line with their terms. They said their terms also 
allowed them to ask for identification, or to update contact details. Their security protocol 
meant he would have to go through the account recovery process when there was a claim of 
unauthorised activity. They said they realised they may have caused him inconvenience, but 
theyd acted in line with their own terms and policies. To make up for it their offered him 
loyalty points worth approximately 20EUR.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it and thought 
Skrill should have done more. They said that Skills actions had caused Mr S concern and 
worry and was inconvenienced by unnecessarily having to take steps to verify his identity. 
They felt all this could have been prevented by Skrill. They recommended Skrill pay him 
£100 compensation. 
This was accepted by Mr S, but Skrill disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the complaint. As such the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The root of this complaint is about the cryptocurrency transaction that Mr S was unaware of. 
Cryptocurrency is unregulated in the UK, and usually these types of transactions in isolation 
wouldnt be in our services remit. But in this case the knock on effect was the restriction to 
the regulated e-money account  and Im satisfied that the impact is related to the difficulties 
had with this. As such Im satisfied that our service does have the legal power to consider 
Mr S complaint.
The facts arent in dispute here. Skrill carried out the cryptocurrency conversion to prevent 
losses to Mr S, which is reasonable. I accept that because the situation was moving quickly 
Skrill didnt have time to let him know about it in advance. But the problem arises in that they 
didnt tell him until several days later  by which time hed already reported the transaction 
as unauthorised. So, for these days he didnt have use of his account and was also under 
the impression his account details were compromised. 
As Skrill hadnt promptly informed him of the reason for the transaction this caused him 
unnecessary stress, which could have easily been avoided. Likewise, by this point his was 
already going through the account recovery process. If he had been correctly told about the 
nature of the transaction when he reported it, this also would have been unnecessary. But by 
the 14 March it would have been clear to Skrill what had happened.
Skrill have said that once the account recovery process has begun it had to be completed, 
but I cant see a reasonable justification for this once it became clear there was no outside 
third party involvement on Mr S account. And their terms do allow them to ask for updated 
identification information  but nothing Ive seen suggests this was required at the time. On 
that basis, Im satisfied that Skrill have inconvenienced Mr S unnecessarily.
Considering the impact of all this, and the time Mr S account was blocked, I dont think the 
effect was extensive. Mr S regularly used his Skrill account, but it doesnt appear it was used 
for his day-to-day spending. But I accept the whole situation was created by Skrill and could 
have been avoided with more prompt communication on their part. On that basis, Im 
satisfied compensation is appropriate.
Skrill have offered a sum of their own loyalty points, but I dont see this an appropriate 
amount. They left him for several days thinking hed been the victim of fraud, and then 
compounded the issue by inconveniencing him in having him unnecessarily submit further 
identification before allowing him to use his account again. Having considered everything, 
Im satisfied an amount of £100 would be appropriate
.
My final decision
My final decision is that Skrill Limited must pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman