DRN-3249061
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt settled a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs N booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel between 19 
June and 3 July 2020.
However, on 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. This advice remained in place at the time Mr and Mrs N were due to travel. The 
airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ns flights and refunded the airfare. But as Mr and Mrs N were 
unable to travel as planned, they had to cancel their trip. Their accommodation provider 
offered them a potential to rebook the following year and their ferry operator offered Mr and 
Mrs N a credit voucher for the value of their booking, which would be valid until the end of 
2022.
As Mr and Mrs N felt it was unlikely theyd be able to make use of either providers offer, they 
made a claim on their travel insurance policy for their lost accommodation deposit and ferry 
ticket costs.
UKI didnt agree to settle Mr and Mrs Ns claim. It said it would require a cancellation invoice 
from the accommodation provider before agreeing the cover the lost deposit cost.  And it 
said that the policy only covered financial losses a policyholders suffered. As the ferry 
operator had offered Mr and Mrs N a credit note for the full value of their booking, UKI 
considered they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It said the policy terms specifically excluded 
losses which could be recovered from elsewhere. It recognised that it hadnt given Mr and 
Mrs N clear information about the claim though, so it paid them £25 compensation.
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with UKIs position and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
UKI later offered to settle Mr and Mrs Ns claim for their lost accommodation deposit, less 
the applicable policy excess. This resulted in a claim settlement offer of £22.12. It also said 
that it would reconsider Mr and Mrs Ns ferry ticket claim once the voucher had expired and if 
the operator wasnt prepared to extend the voucher term.
Our investigator thought UKIs offer was fair and reasonable. She considered the policy 
terms and she felt the evidence suggested that Mr and Mrs N had recovered their ferry costs 
in the form of the credit voucher. She thought that if the ferry ticket expired or the operator 
became insolvent, Mr and Mrs Ns loss would then become irrecoverable. She was also 
satisfied that the compensation UKI had paid Mr and Mrs N was fair to recognise its claims 
handling.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed. They were concerned that if the ferry operator became bankrupt, 
theyd been left unable to recover their money. And they felt £25 compensation was pitifully 
small.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, I think UKIs current offer of 
settlement is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns policy and the circumstances of their 
claim to decide whether UKI handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Ns contract with 
UKI. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused 
costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is 
the FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ns holiday was cancelled as a result of the 
FCDO advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. So I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs N feel that UKI should pay their claim for their unused costs. But the cancellation 
section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. One of these states 
that UKI wont pay for any expenses that a policyholder can recover from elsewhere. 
The accommodation deposit cost
UKI has now agreed to settle Mr and Mrs Ns claim for their accommodation booking, 
although I agree with our investigator that based on the accommodation owners email  
which suggests that Mr and Mrs N could potentially reschedule the following year-  it wasnt 
unreasonable for UKI to initially conclude that Mr and Mrs N had been able to recover their 
costs. This means Im not directing UKI to pay interest on this settlement. Its calculated the 
settlement as follows: 
Original booking cost of £122.12 (converted from EUR 140)
Less excess of £50 per person (£100)
= £22.12.
As UKI has now offered to settle this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ns claim in line with the policy 
terms, I consider its offer to be fair and therefore, I dont think I need to make any further 
finding on this point.
The ferry cost
UKI says that as the ferry operator offered Mr and Mrs N a credit note for the full value of 
their booking; they havent suffered a financial loss for this booking which is covered by the 
policy. And I think the policy wording makes it clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which can be recovered from elsewhere. So Ive next considered the agents cancellation email to Mr 
and Mrs N, which set out the terms of the ferry operators credit voucher offer.
This said that the ferry operator was only allowing the option of allowing conversion of tickets 
into credit vouchers. It said that the vouchers could be replaced by tickets for crossings 
performed by the operator before 31 December 2022. The email also said:
In case you opt for open date tickets and do not use them for a period of 18 months from the 
original travel date, you will be entitled to a full refund of the fare of the initial tickets at that 
point.
In my view, this email suggests that the credit voucher would cover the full value of Mr and 
Mrs Ns booking. It also provided a reasonable timeframe for use and there are still several 
months of validity left before the voucher expires. The email also seems to suggest that in 
some circumstances, customers would be entitled to a full refund of their ticket costs. Based 
on this evidence, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs N hadnt suffered a 
financial loss for this booking at the time they made the claim or to date. While Mr and Mrs N 
might not wish to make use of the voucher, I find it covers the full cost of their booking and 
its terms arent overly restrictive.
UKI has told us that following expiry of the voucher, if the term cant be extended, it will 
reconsider this element of Mr and Mrs Ns claim. I think this is a reasonable position for UKI 
to take and its what Id expect it to do in these circumstances. It may be open to Mr and Mrs 
N to seek a full refund from the ferry operator though if they havent made use of an open 
date ticket within the relevant timeframe. Equally, if the ferry operator does cease operations 
before the voucher expires, again, Mr and Mrs N should let UKI know so that it can further 
consider their claim. It will be for UKI to determine what additional information it might need 
from Mr and Mrs N after the voucher expires in order to further assess their claim.
On the evidence before me, I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs N havent demonstrated theyve suffered a financial loss for the ferry booking. So 
Im not telling it to pay this aspect of their claim.
Compensation
I appreciate Mr and Mrs N feel strongly that the compensation UKI has paid them isnt 
sufficient to recognise their trouble and upset. I dont doubt how frustrating it was when UKI 
seemingly imposed new barriers to them recovering their ferry costs when it told them theyd 
need to try and recover their costs from elsewhere. But in my experience, most, if not all, 
travel insurers require policyholders to show they cant recover their costs from elsewhere 
before accepting and settling claims. I do think UKI couldve explained this more clearly to 
Mr and Mrs N earlier on during the claims process though and so I think it was appropriate 
for UKI to recognise the impact I think this this lack of communication is likely to have 
caused Mr and Mrs N. In my view, £25 is a fair and reasonable award to recognise UKIs 
failing in its claims handling. So Im not directing it to pay any more.
Overall, Ive decided UKIs current offer of settlement is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that UKIs offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Ns accommodation deposit claim in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman