DRN-4477611
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the deductions that Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd (C&G) made from settlement of a claim under his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim for £805 in respect of an emergency operation on his dog whom Ill call 
D, after D was attacked by other dogs. C&G made a number of deductions from the amount 
claimed and paid Mr B £525.
The deductions in dispute are as follows:
General anaesthetic
The vet charged £451.52. C&G paid £250 which it said was its limit based on research of 
average costs.
Consumables  drapes
The vet charged £6.90. C&G said single use, non-medical or cleaning items werent covered 
by the policy.
Medications over 100% mark-up
The vet charged £63.87. C&G paid £35.04.
Surgical site prep
The vet charged £11.68. C&G said cleaning fees werent covered.
Mr B complained that the deductions werent reasonable. As C&G didnt change its decision, 
he brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
My role is to decide whether C&G treated Mr B fairly and reasonably in making these 
deductions. Ill consider them in turn.
General anaesthetic
In making this deduction C&G relied primarily on the following policy term:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable; and Essential for Your pets health and 
well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary 
Treatment, medication and dispensing fees; Blood sampling charges will be capped at the 
UK market average; Each and every claim will be reviewed by Our claims assessors and 
costs will be compared against charges for the same or similar Treatment to make sure that 
the Treatment and veterinary fees are reasonable, necessary, essential, and not excessive 
compared to the rest of the UK market.
C&G told us it allows up to £250 for anaesthesia based on the average cost of the veterinary 
fee for this. It said this average is calculated from the claims it receives and is reviewed on a 
regular basis to ensure it is kept up to date with vet fees.
I dont think this is reasonable as C&G hasnt provided any information or data for me to 
consider whether its assessment is indeed fair. The cost of veterinary treatment can vary in 
different parts of the country due to issues such as lower or higher overheads and other 
factors. C&G should treat all its policyholders fairly and not just those in a part of the country 
where the costs of a general anaesthetic might be £250 or less.
In addition, because this limit isnt explained in the policy terms, a policyholder has no way of 
ensuring that the policy benefits are suitable for them. C&G should provide enough 
information to do this. So, I consider C&G should cover these costs in full.
Consumables  drapes
In declining this part of the claim C&G relied on the following policy term:
What is not insured? Any miscellaneous costs that do not directly relate to the Treatment of 
an Illness or Accidental Injury, including but not limited to single use items, non-medical 
items, cleaning supplies and such other costs that a Vet may charge but are not directly 
related to the actual Treatment of Your pet.
My understanding is that these drapes are used to isolate the surgery area from the 
surrounding contaminated area in order to reduce the risk of infection. I consider it was 
unreasonable of C&G to say that these were not directly related to the treatment of Mr Bs 
dog.
Medications over 100% mark-up
Under the terms of the policy referred to earlier C&G is entitled to limit payment to a 
maximum mark-up of 100% for medication. C&G has provided evidence to show the 
standard price of the medication and that it had capped the amount paid to 100% of this 
amount. I appreciate that the retail cost of the same medicine is higher but I wouldnt expect 
Mr Bs vet to pay that. So, I dont think C&G acted unfairly in applying this deduction.
Surgical site prep
I dont think it was reasonable for C&G not to settle this part of the claim as this would have 
been an essential part of the operation. I think C&G should reimburse these costs.
My provisional decision is that C&G should pay Mr B £220.10 being the deductions in 
respect of the general anaesthetic, drapes and surgical site preparation. As Mr B hasnt had 
the use of that money, I also think its fair that C&G should pay simple interest of 8% on it 
from the date Mr B paid the vets bill to the date that payment is made to him.
Compensation
I also agree that the failure to give Mr B a full breakdown and explanation of the various 
deductions in a timely manner caused him unnecessary trouble and upset, I agree with our 
Investigator that C&G should pay him compensation of £100 for that.
Mr B accepted my decision. C&G said it had no further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay Mr B the following:
£220.10;
Simple interest at the rate of 8% a year on the above sum from the date Mr B paid 
the vets bill to the date that payment is made to him; and
Compensation of £100.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much 
its taken off and give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so that he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman