DRN-4281779
The complaint
Miss M says that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) acted irresponsibly by providing her with an 
overdraft that she couldnt afford, then acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to her 
account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss M held an account with Monzo with an overdraft limit of £700. This was increased to 
£1,000 on 9 July 2019. Miss Ms account was closed and defaulted in June 2022 after being 
in unarranged overdraft for 120 days.  
Miss M complained to Monzo that it provided her with an overdraft irresponsibly. Monzo 
didnt uphold her complaint  it says Miss M was assessed for credit risk and affordability 
and passed these tests. Monzo said it offered support on numerous occasions by text 
alerting her to the status of her account and webchat, but that Miss M didnt respond.
Miss M was dis-satisfied with this and referred her complaint to this service.
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having 
reviewed Miss Ms statements that Monzo should refund all fees and charges applied to 
Miss Ms account from 9 January 2020 because had Monzo manually reviewed Miss Ms 
overdraft usage it would have been clear Miss M wasnt in a position to sustainably repay 
what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Monzo didnt replay, so Miss Ms complaint was progressed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im in agreement with our adjudicator and I 
think Monzo acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees 
on Miss Ms account from 9 January 2020. 
By this point Monzo had already sent Miss M alerts about being over her overdraft limit and 
in unarranged overdraft and ought to have realised that Miss Ms use of her overdraft was 
unsustainable and that Miss M was in no position to repay what she owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Miss Ms statements show that she had no regular income coming into the account to 
service the overdraft and that she was at the top of her limit and hadnt seen a credit balance 
since her overdraft limit had been increased to £1,000 in July 2019. In these circumstances, 
Monzo ought to have realised that Miss M was at a significant risk of being unable to repay 
what she already owed. 
Monzo say it contacted Miss M on numerous occasions about her overdraft usage and that 
she never responded. But Monzo has provided me with a record of its contact with Miss M 
for the period in question and it shows that although she received text alerts about the status 
of her account there was no other contact.
Monzo was aware Miss M had entered unarranged overdraft and if it had reviewed her 
statements it wouldve seen she was at the top of her limit and was unable to bring her 
overdraft down and wasnt using the overdraft as intended but it still took no proactive action 
until June 2022. Monzo should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and 
treated Miss M with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on 
the overdraft. 
Miss M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Monzo 
didnt treat Miss M fairly and she lost out because of what Monzo did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint for Monzo to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 9 January 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Monzo should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment plan. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ms credit file, 
Monzo should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process 
of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2020. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Monzo 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this interest. Monzo must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint against Monzo Bank Plc and 
direct it put things right as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman