DRN-2331656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt with and 
settled a claim they made under their home insurance for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold a home insurance policy, which is underwritten by Fairmead. When their 
policy was incepted, a copy of the policy terms and schedule were made available to them.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs M experienced water ingress within their home following two 
storms. This caused water staining and damp in their bedroom and bathroom. Mr and Mrs M 
contacted a roofing company and, based on the advice they received, their roof was 
replaced. During Summer 2019, the damp and water damage dried out. So, Mr and Mrs M 
thought the new roof had resolved the problem. But in March 2020 they noticed the staining 
and water ingress had returned. They thought this had been caused by storms the previous 
month.
Mr and Mrs M instructed a local company to attend their home to assess the cause of the 
water staining. It thought rainwater was using the cavity wall insulation to penetrate Mr and 
Mrs Ms home. So, they contacted Fairmead to report the damage their property had 
sustained. They asked it to cover their redecoration costs. And they explained theyd 
experienced similar damage the previous year.
Fairmead consulted weather reports but couldnt find evidence of weather that met its policy 
definition of a storm. So, it appointed a surveyor, (B), to attend Mr and Mrs Ms property in 
order to assess and determine whether the damage theyd reported was storm related. 
When B attended Mr and Mrs Ms home it couldnt attribute the damage to a one-off insured 
storm event. It said their roof was in good condition. And it thought the water ingress had 
occurred due to gradual deterioration of Mr and Mrs Ms wall. So, Fairmead repudiated their 
claim. 
In June 2020, a cavity wall insulation surveyor inspected Mr and Mrs Ms property. They said 
wind and heavy rain was causing moisture to penetrate the cavity wall insulation and transfer 
to the inner property wall. And Mr and Mrs M were told their wall wasnt suitable for cavity 
wall insulation. So, it was removed.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Fairmeads decision to repudiate their claim. They 
disputed Bs opinion that the damage had occurred gradually as they thought the surveyor 
hadnt properly understood the circumstances of their claim. And they didnt think the 
surveyor was suitably qualified to assess the damage theyd inspected. They were also 
unhappy with how their claim had been handled and assessed by Fairmead. So, they 
complained. But Fairmead didnt uphold their complaint. It said gradually occurring damage 
was excluded under their policy. So, it maintained its repudiation decision. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Fairmeads response to their complaint. They also thought 
it had unfairly assessed their claim. So, they referred their complaint to our service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. But they didnt recommend upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint. They thought Fairmead had acted fairly in repudiating their claim and 
they didnt think it needed to do anything more here. But Mr and Mrs M asked for their 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have sent our investigator some very detailed submissions about their complaint. I 
want to assure them Ive read and considered everything that both they and Fairmead have said 
when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr and Mrs M have raised as Ive 
focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr and Mrs M wont take that as a 
discourtesy. My approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think Fairmead made a mistake, or treated Mr and Mrs M 
unfairly, in how it decided to repudiate their claim. 
Mr and Mrs M would like Fairmead to cover their redecoration costs because they believe 
the damage their property sustained was caused by adverse weather during March 2019 
and February 2020. Their policy with Fairmead provides cover for damage caused by a 
range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for 
example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mr and Mrs M would have to show that the 
damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind. The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be 
able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms policy defines the word 
storm to be wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/ 75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate 
of at least 25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours 
or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Like our investigator, Ive considered weather records during March 2019 and February 2020 
as these are the dates Mr and Mrs M say their property was exposed to storms.
I can see that wind speeds of 51 mph were recorded on 3 March 2019, when there was a 
dry storm. There were also wind speeds of 56 mph recorded a week later. And in February 2020 the highest wind speed recorded was on 9 February. This was when a dry storm with 
wind speeds of 63 mph was recorded. I havent seen any periods of excessive rainfall 
recorded within the weather records Ive consulted.
Based on the weather evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded the highest wind speeds recorded 
in March 2019 and February 2020 meet Fairmeads definition of a storm. So, Im satisfied I 
can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. As Ive already mentioned, there was water damage to Mr 
and Mrs Ms property interior. Our service has experience of assessing this type of damage 
in storm claims. And we accept that wind speeds of 63 pm can cause damage to property. 
Im therefore satisfied that I can answer question two affirmatively.
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. Bs opinion is that a one-off weather incident wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
Instead it thought the damage Mr and Mrs M reported was due to gradual deterioration of 
their wall.
Mr and Mrs M have told our investigator that Bs surveyor didnt properly understand their 
claim. And theyve raised concerns about the surveyors expertise. But Ive seen evidence 
that the surveyor who inspected Mr and Mrs Ms roof has over 30 years experience in the 
construction and buildings industry. And assessing storm damage claims is typical work 
undertaken by a surveyor. So, Im persuaded Bs surveyor was sufficiently qualified to 
provide an opinion on the cause of damage here.
I think what B has said about the time over which the damage has occurred is fair. I say this 
because Mr and Mrs M first noticed water ingress in March 2019. And, while this had 
resolved by summer 2019, it reappeared in March 2020. Although there were storms in 
March 2019 and February 2020, I think they merely highlighted the problem with Mr and Mrs 
Ms property. I dont think the water ingress was caused by the storms Mr and Mrs M 
experienced and I, therefore, think the damage occurred gradually.
Mr and Mrs M have told our investigator that the cavity wall insulation surveyor who attended 
their property said their wall wasnt suitable for insulation. They also said the insulation 
material hadnt been properly installed. I think this supports Bs opinion on the cause of 
damage as it demonstrates that water has been penetrating Mr and Mrs Ms property 
gradually. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have had the insulation removed. And I havent seen any 
evidence that theyve experienced any further water ingress since its removal. This 
persuades me that defective cavity wall insulation, rather than stormy weather, is the most 
likely cause of the damage Mr and Mrs M experienced. 
Fairmeads policy booklet clearly outlines that loss, damage or liability arising from wear and 
tear that you know is happening gradually overtime is specifically excluded under Mr and 
Mrs Ms insurance policy. Their policy also excludes loss or damage arising from defective 
design, defective materials, faulty workmanship or failure to follow manufacturers 
instructions. This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is 
intended to cover the unforeseen. And gradual damage, or damage due to faulty materials, 
isnt unforeseen. 
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision; they feel very strongly about the 
issues raised in their complaint. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisfied their property was damaged due to a one-off weather event. So, it wouldnt be fair 
to require Fairmead to pay this claim. Im therefore not going to ask it to do anything else.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms dispute with 
Fairmead informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr and Mrs M any further with 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman