DRN-3794305
Complaint
Mr X complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr X is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around October 2014, Mr X was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr X decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Xs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr X to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings would provide enough income to cover the finance 
agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr X or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr X and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view explaining that Mr X says he did raise 
performance in 2014 with P. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 140 and s.56 of the Act. Section 140A is about 
unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this case, the CMC relies 
on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr X and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Our investigator has already explained why S.75 of the Act isnt applicable in this case, so I 
havent considered it as part of this case. 
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr X says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and pages from a solar quote. Ive considered these, 
along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The solar quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
A full copy of Mr Xs quote is no longer available. But due to that time thats passed since the 
sale, thats not unreasonable. But Mr X has sent in copies of pages from his quote that are 
still available. 
So, having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken the pages still retained into account, along 
with the consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr X was told that the cost of the system was £6,742. The is this out clearly 
in his credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system as £6,742. The monthly payment was £73.48. The total amount of credit is £6,742 and goes on to show that 
the total amount payable would be £13,226.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £6,742, it would 
cost Mr X more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr X has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as any other documents and the consumers recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote usually sets out the estimated income Mr X could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. I dont have a copy of this page, 
but I do have a copy of the sales contract which did set out the FIT information. I think this 
would likely have also been set out in the quote. 
I think it was made clear to Mr X that he could expect to receive a total FIT income in year 
one of £441.54 (which is £378.73 for FIT returns and £62.81 for Export return). This results 
in an average monthly income of £36.79. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £201.61 as set out in the table above. When 
taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr X the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £748.75. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £73.48 which works out as £881.76 annually. As 
a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed REPAYMENT OPTIONS with three table showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months 
since this is the length of the loan that Mr X entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows 
the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £73.58. For each year of the 15-year loan 
it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £73.48, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote likely set out the income Mr X could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table above does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of 
FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that 
the FIT payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about 
the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote likely did form a 
central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income and savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr X that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr X was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr X could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr X that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
The MCS certificate sets out what the system is expected to produce in kWh a year and I 
understand the solar panel system may not be performing in line with the estimates made. 
Currently there is no explanation as to why the energy generated is not in line with the 
estimates made - for example, it may be that the system was defective, or it developed a 
fault. 
Mr Xs original section 75 claim was that the system was not generating the estimated 
financial returns (in FIT payments and savings on energy bills), that the financial benefits 
were not covering the monthly finance cost, and that the system had therefore been 
misrepresented on that basis. So Shawbrook only dealt with that complaint, and itss answer 
was that the quote had made it clear Mr X had not been told the system would be self-
funding from the start. 
Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was 
generating as much energy as P had estimated. I understand Mr X says he raised concerns 
around performance with P directly  and I can see an email from P arranging a call about 
output in 2014. Im not sure what the nature of the discussions regarding output were. In 
any event, Ive checked his letter of claim against Shawbrook, and it was not raised as part 
of his claim and subsequent complaint against Shawbrook. If Mr X would like to raise this 
issue, then he can do so separately  but I have not looked at it as part of this case. 
I have only considered whether P made any misrepresentations when it estimated the 
financial returns Mr X was likely to receive from the system, independently of the systems 
failure to generate as much energy as estimated.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P says it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI 
inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the 
increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he 
hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr X couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr X entered into the contract.
So, Ive considered carefully whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s.140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Considering that I havent 
found any misrepresentation and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P 
were reasonable, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under s.140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr X to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman