DRN-2836304
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Revolut Ltd restricted access to his account. Hed like the money 
returned and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr B had an account with Revolut.
On the 9 April 2020 Revolut blocked Mr Bs access to his account due to suspicious account 
activity. At the time Mr B had a balance of £259.02. 
Mr B received contact from one of his credit card providers informing him he was close to his 
credit card limit  and on checking another of his credit cards he established that both cards 
had been used to top up his Revolut account without his consent.
 
Mr B contacted Revolut to complain about the account activity and the restriction. 
Revolut looked into Mr Bs complaint but they didnt uphold it. The bank explained they were 
entitled to restrict access to his account and review the account activity as per the terms and 
conditions. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Revoluts response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. On contacting Revolut, the bank 
advised that theyd reviewed their position and concluded they hadnt acted fairly in 
restricting Mr Bs account, and theyd failed to identify that Mr Bs account was subject to 
account takeover by a fraudster. The bank offered to return the balance of Mr Bs account, 
plus 8% interest and £100 compensation. 
Mr B didnt accept Revoluts offer so our investigator looked into his complaint. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and thought Revolut needed to do more to put 
things right. He recommended that along with refunding the account balance and 8% interest 
Revolut should pay Mr B £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Revolut accepted our investigators proposal but Mr B didnt.
In response Mr B explained hed like £25,000 in compensation for the inconvenience caused 
to him and his family. Mr B highlighted that the restriction occurred during lockdown, at which 
time he was furloughed, and this had a significant impact on him.
 
Because Mr B didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been referred to me for a 
decision. 
On picking up the case I asked Mr B to provide further explanation and evidence for the 
impact on him, including bank statements and details about his furlough. Mr B didnt respond 
so Ive proceeded on the information already available to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut have accepted that they acted unfairly in restricting Mr Bs access to his account, 
and not returning his funds. Therefore I dont need to reach a conclusion on whether Revolut 
acted fairly in holding on to Mr Bs funds  instead its my role to consider the impact of 
Revoluts actions on Mr B. Im unable to consider the impact to Mr Bs family, as the 
complaint (and Revolut account) is in Mr Bs name and hes the only eligible complainant. 
Its clear that Revoluts actions, in restricting Mr Bs access to his funds, caused him 
inconvenience. Mr B has argued that due to the time the restriction occurred, during the first 
lockdown, it had a significant impact on him, and therefore £200 isnt sufficient compensation 
for this. However, on being asked to provide additional evidence to support this Mr B hasnt 
been able to do so. I understand that not having access to almost £260 did negatively affect 
Mr B, however without additional evidence showing Mr Bs financial situation at the time its 
not possible for me to conclude a larger distress and inconvenience payment should be 
made. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think a compensation payment of £200 is fair due to 
the inconvenience caused to Mr B in not having access to his funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Revolut Ltd to:
- Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman