DRN-3279991
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) treated her when she reported 
loans had been taken out fraudulently in her name and economic abuse.
What happened
Mrs M had a joint account with her then husband, Mr M. On 2 June 2019 Mrs M called 
HSBC to report fraud after opening post while Mr M was abroad. She explained that her 
husband took out two loans in her name without her knowledge. The HSBC agent Mrs M 
spoke to explained that telephone banking had been suspended because of answers given 
to security questions and so Mrs M would need to attend a branch of HSBC with 
identification. Mrs M and her father asked that Mrs Ms accounts be blocked but the agent 
said there was nothing she could do. Mrs M believes Mr M changed the security details so 
that she wouldnt have access to the joint account. 
On 4 June 2019 Mrs M attended a branch of HSBC and her joint account with Mr M was 
inhibited. At this meeting Mrs M was told her signature didnt match that held on record. Mrs 
M believes this was another tactic by Mr M to take over the joint account and ensure she had 
no access to it. The fact Mrs Ms signature didnt match HSBCs records also meant there 
was a delay in HSBC providing relevant information to the police. 
HSBCs records show it concluded Mrs Ms claims that loans were taken out fraudulently in 
her name by her husband was a civil or family matter and so HSBC couldnt get involved. 
Both loans Mrs M complains about were taken out online and loan funds were credited to 
Mrs Ms joint account with Mr M. The first loan was taken out on 29 December 2018 and was 
for £15,000. At the beginning of January 2019 £16,000 was transferred from the joint 
account to Mr Ms sole account and then £13,000 was transferred to a business account. Mr 
and Mrs M were both signatories for the business account. The second loan was for £11,000 
and was taken out on 17 January 2019. 
On 22 July 2019 Mrs M raised a complaint. She asked HSBC to cooperate with the police in 
respect of the fraudulent loans, to confirm that all her accounts had been blocked and said 
that all payments from 3 June 2019 should have been blocked by HSBC but werent. Mrs M 
also asked HSBC to provide proof shed taken out the loans and benefited from them. HSBC 
said it couldnt provide the loan agreements but provided details of the loans and suggested 
Mrs M look at statements to see how the funds were used.
After Mrs M referred her complaint to this service in August 2020 HSBC say a recently set 
up specialist team investigated Mrs Ms claims about the fraudulent loans. This team 
prepared a report dated 28 August 2020 that concluded the loans were taken out 
fraudulently by Mrs Ms husband and referred to coercive control by him. The specialist team 
recommended that HSBC write off both loans and refund £1,898.17 to Mrs M. The payment 
included a refund of £913.09 for transactions that took place between 2 and 4 June 2019 
(Mrs Ms fraud call and her subsequent branch visit) as well as a refund of credits made in 
the period that were then spent by Mr M. The loans were written off, but no refund was 
made. 
Mrs M has explained that she was in an abusive relationship from the age of 16. She worked 
long hours which were booked by Mr M and had no control over her finances and wasnt 
allowed to open any post, including statements. Internet banking was set up at a branch 
visit, but Mrs M never used it. Mrs M says that she didnt realise until 2019 that she was the 
victim of domestic abuse in the form of financial fraud.  
Mrs M says HSBC:
- Delayed in responding to and failed to cooperate with her and the police. This has had a 
significant impact on Mrs M emotionally and financially. The delay meant the police 
decided there was insufficient evidence to prosecute Mr M for fraudulent abuse. Mrs M 
says the financial implications of this include:
oAdditional legal costs of around £30,000. Mrs M says that had HSBC cooperated 
with the police Mr M would have been arrested and shed have been given sole 
custody of their children without the need for costly court hearings. And court 
proceedings have been delayed by the pandemic, further increasing Mrs Ms 
legal fees. 
oIf Mr M had been arrested on further charges Mrs M says she wouldnt have 
agreed to a 50/50 split in divorce proceedings resulting in a loss of around 
£28,000. 
oLost wages of a minimum of £60,000 over the two years she has been unable to 
work because of the stress of Mr Ms account takeover and HSBCs handling of 
it. 
The delays have also had a huge emotional impact on Mrs M and her family. 
- Failed to provide information requested, like the loan agreements and signature 
mandate. 
- Failed to notice unusual transactions on the joint account over a lengthy period of time 
(but in particular the latter half of 2018 to 2019). Mrs M says she was the only one who 
paid funds into the account but her transactions on the account were minimal, while Mr 
M enjoyed a lavish lifestyle and withdrew large sums of cash. In particular, Mrs M says 
£127,000 was withdrawn from the joint account between September 2018 and March 
2019 including large cash withdrawals; numerous transactions and transfers to Mr Ms 
accounts; and four loans were taken out in a six-week period (including the two loans 
taken out in Mrs Ms name). She believes that a casual look at the activity on the joint 
account would have raised alarm bells. Mrs M says HSBC has never responded to this 
aspect of her complaint. 
- Not provided her with any support even though on the day she reported the fraudulent 
loans HSBC said in the press it would treat victims of domestic abuse with extra care, 
support and sympathy. Mrs M says that HSBC staff in branch and during calls treated 
her like she was the criminal and shed like to claim for injury to her feelings. On 18 June 
2019 and other occasions branch staff failed to recognise her signature even though 
she attended with detailed documentation  and this also delayed police enquiries.
- Allowed further transactions on the account between her call to report fraud on 2 June 
2019 and her visit to branch on 4 June.
- Held her responsible for the two loans Mr M took out in her name until 2 November 
2020, meaning she was in constant fear for her financial future from 2 June 2019 until 
then. 
Mrs M had an account with another bank that was also taken over by Mr M. She says by 
contrast this other bank noted unusual transactions, completed a quick investigation and 
concluded her account had been taken over by Mr M. During the investigation she was 
supported, and the other bank cooperated with the police. 
Our investigation so farThe investigator who considered Mrs Ms complaint recommended that it be upheld, and that 
HSBC should pay her £1,500 to compensate her for the additional distress and       
inconvenience he felt HSBCs actions caused her. He said this because:
- The fraudulent loan aspect of the complaint had been resolved in that the 
outstanding sums had been written off and all reference to them removed from Mrs 
Ms credit file. But HSBC hadnt been clear if this was on a goodwill basis or because 
it believed the loans had been taken out fraudulently and the decision not to hold Mrs 
M liable was made a year later. The investigator felt that HSBCs original decision 
that the issue of the loans was a civil matter failed to take into account training staff 
had received in respect of financial abuse and coercive control. The result was that 
Mrs M was put to additional stress and worry about the outstanding debt at an 
already difficult time for her. 
- Mrs Ms account should have been blocked when she went into branch on 4 June 
2019, but it wasnt  meaning funds were debited from the account after this date. 
Although HSBC appeared to have agreed to refund these sums there was no 
evidence it had, so the investigator directed HSBC to do so. 
- HSBC acted reasonably in not recognising that Mrs Ms accounts had been taken 
over. This was because it was a joint account, so Mr M was free use it as he saw fit 
and because the transactions didnt seem concerning. 
- Although the investigator couldnt divulge HSBCs internal policies, he said he was 
satisfied it hadnt followed them completely including in respect of identification or 
offering a single representative to discuss matters with Mrs M. 
- HSBC had tried to respond to Mrs Ms queries but had been unable to provide all 
information requested. The investigator said he couldnt comment on this aspect and 
referred Mrs M to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
- In terms of the overall service provided the investigator felt HSBC had caused 
avoidable delays. It was put on notice that Mrs M was the victim of financial abuse 
and coercive control when she visited the branch on 4 June 2019 and should have 
updated the mandate then which would have allowed HSBC to respond to the police 
sooner.
HSBC didnt respond to the investigators findings. 
Mrs M agreed that HSBC had delayed in responding to enquiries made by her and the 
police. But she felt that the amount the investigator awarded didnt recognise the degree to 
which she had been affected. In summary, Mrs M believes that had HSBC acted 
appropriately the criminal case against Mr M would have gone to court before the outbreak 
of the Covid 19 pandemic and she and her parents wouldnt have had to endure the mental 
and physical cost of several additional court hearings. In addition to this, Mrs M says the 
threat of recovery action in relation to the two loans hung over her until 2 November 2020. 
The level of stress and trauma she endured meant she was unable to work for two years 
meaning that even if she used the minimum salary for her role, she lost £60,000.
Mrs M said the award made by the investigator barely covered the costs she and her parents 
incurred in bringing the complaint to this service and responding to extensive questions. Mrs 
M also said that had she known the award would be £1,500 she probably wouldnt have 
proceeded with her complaint.
Mrs M also said shed not received a formal apology from HSBC for the way it has treated 
her and that even now it hasnt answered some of the questions asked or responded to the 
investigators requests for information. Finally, Mrs M said she hadnt received the refund 
HSBC had agreed to.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances that have led to this complaint. It is clear Mrs M has 
been through an extremely difficult time and that she has been a victim of financial abuse 
perpetrated by Mr M. What I need to decide is whether HSBC treated Mrs M reasonably and 
what, if anything, it should do to put things right. 
Im grateful to Mrs M for the time and effort she has put into providing evidence to this 
service and in clearly setting out her complaint. Mrs M has referred to the impact this case 
has had on her, her children and her parents. I recognise the wide-ranging impact of the 
fraud itself and HSBCs handling of it, but can only consider the effect on Mrs M as she is the 
only person who is a customer of HSBC and so eligible to complain.
The fraudulent loans 
Im pleased that after Mrs M referred her complaint to this service HSBC agreed to write off 
the two loans and remove any references to them from Mrs Ms credit file, so this aspect of 
the complaint has been resolved. When I reviewed the complaint, I asked HSBC about 
whether it had refunded the debits and credits in line with the recommendations of its 
specialist team. HSBC confirmed the refund was missed and asked for Mrs Ms account 
details, which have been provided. The refund of £1,898.17 now needs to be paid to Mrs M. 
But I need to take into account the fact that HSBC only agreed to write off the loans in 
November 2020, sixteen months after Mrs M first contacted it about them and that even 
then, HSBC didnt make the payment its own team had recommended. So, at an already 
very difficult time for Mrs M, she also had the worry of being held responsible for quite 
significant loans taken out in her name. And over 33 months after Mrs M first contacted 
HSBC she hasnt been provided with a refund in respect of transactions that took place after 
she reported fraud. 
I dont consider HSBCs initial conclusion that this was a civil or family matter it couldnt deal 
with was fair or reasonable  and its own specialist team reached a very different conclusion 
when Mrs Ms circumstances were carefully considered at a later date. I consider HSBCs 
early responses to Mrs M failed to take into account what she told it about her 
circumstances, the training its staff received about economic abuse and its own 
safeguarding policies. At a time when HSBC announced publicly its support for victims like 
Mrs M, it let her down and so Im satisfied HSBC should pay compensation for the 
reasonable and foreseeable consequences of its failings. 
Activity on the joint account
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can fairly 
criticise HSBC for processing the payments from the joint account that Mrs M has 
highlighted. As the payments were made from a joint account either account holder could 
use the account as they wished. HSBCs current personal banking terms and conditions say,
Any joint account holder can use the account. They can get information about the account 
and ask us to make or stop payments. They can also apply for an arranged overdraft, and 
close the account and have the money in it paid to them. 
I appreciate the payments Mrs M has discussed have taken place over a number of years 
but the overall position for joint accounts hasnt changed in that either account holder can 
use the account.But Ive also considered whether HSBC should have been on notice that Ms M might be the 
victim of financial abuse given the transactions on the joint account. Mrs M has provided 
evidence to demonstrate Mr M transferred funds from the joint account to share companies, 
made numerous cash withdrawals  sometimes three or four in a day, transferred funds to 
accounts in his own name, paid funds to accounts with the names of their children as the 
reference and paid a credit card in his sole name from the account. I appreciate that we now 
know Mrs M wasnt aware these transactions were happening, but I dont consider they 
would have been so suspicious to HSBC that it should have intervened and prevented 
further transactions. These kinds of transactions are very normal for a joint account and so I 
wouldnt expect HSBC to have any concerns about them.
Transfers to other accounts in either party to a joint accounts name, to pay off credit card 
debt and to children are all normal account activities, as is transferring funds to a savings 
account. In between these transactions regular spending on bills and household expenses 
also took place. And I consider it unreasonable to expect a bank to track the spending of 
each party to a joint account. Whilst I accept a lot of cash was withdrawn, its not for HSBC 
to question how joint account holders choose to organise their finances. Im also mindful of 
the fact HSBC would have no indication of whether the funds were used for the benefit of 
one or both parties
Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC should have had any concerns about how the loan 
funds were spent at the time, before Mrs M reported the fraud. For many of the reasons Ive 
set out above in respect of the activity on the joint account, Im not persuaded it should. Also, 
the majority of the funds from the December 2018 loan were transferred to an account in Mr 
Ms name and then to a business account for which Mrs M was also a signatory. So I can 
see why at the time HSBC had no concerns. The second loan of £11,000 wasnt cleared 
from the account immediately, which is what Id usually expect of a fraudster. 
Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC missed clear indicators that Mrs M was at risk of financial 
harm.
Safeguarding and service
Its not clear exactly when the possibility of financial control was first raised. I believe Mrs M 
raised it in her first meeting with HSBC on 4 June 2019. Ive seen a note made by HSBC on 
28 August 2019 which says Mrs Ms husband was very controlling and does not let her have 
access to financial information. So, certainly by this time, HSBC was on notice that there 
was more going on here and that Mrs M required additional support. But HSBC didnt follow 
its own internal policies and exercise discretion in terms of the signature it held for Mrs M or 
provide her with a single point of contact as I consider it should have. Instead, Mrs M spoke 
to and emailed numerous departments within HSBC to try to resolve her issues. 
The report from HSBCs specialist team in August 2020 concluded, 
It is clear that the customer is in a vulnerable position and has been controlled for almost 20 
years.
Even with this evidence HSBC didnt take steps to make the recommended payments or to 
understand the impact of its actions on Mrs M. 
Mrs M asked HSBC to provide her with information like copies of the loan agreements taken 
out in her name and the signed mandate for the account. HSBC has explained that it was 
unable to provide Mrs M with these documents. I understand how frustrating this was for Mrs 
M, but dont consider HSBC acted unreasonably in not providing confidential information to 
Mrs M. 
Indirect losses
Ive considered Mrs Ms assertion that had HSBC acted more promptly Mr M may have been 
charged with the additional offence of fraudulent abuse and the criminal case against him may not have been delayed by the pandemic. Mrs M says the result may have been reduced 
legal fees in respect of custody and divorce proceedings and a more favourable divorce 
settlement. 
I accept there was a delay in the provision of information to the police and Ive discussed 
above the steps I think HSBC should have taken in respect of the mandate so that 
information could have been shared sooner. But Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me 
that had HSBC cooperated with Mrs M and the police sooner Mr M would on the balance of 
probabilities have been charged with further offences, court proceedings wouldnt have been 
delayed by the Covid 19 pandemic and Mrs M could have reached a more favourable 
divorce settlement. 
The police and Crown Prosecution Service take a lot of factors into account when deciding 
the likely chances of a prosecution and Im not persuaded that if HSBC had provided 
information sooner the prospect of a successful conviction for offences beyond fraud and 
theft would be any different. Mrs M has referred in correspondence to the fact the police 
have told her this is a complex case and that understanding it fully would require a forensic 
accounting specialist. In light of this, Im not persuaded that the provision of information by 
HSBC a few months earlier would more likely than not have led to Mr M being arrested for 
fraudulent abuse. And in any case, any criminal proceedings are separate to proceedings in 
the family court. So Im also not persuaded HSBC is responsible for additional court costs 
incurred in custody proceedings because Mr M wasnt charged with fraudulent abuse or for 
the divorce settlement reached.
I understand that the Covid 19 pandemic has delayed proceedings further and added to Mrs 
Ms distress. Whilst I appreciate how disappointing and difficult the whole experience must 
have been for Mrs M, I dont believe this was a foreseeable consequence and so I cant fairly 
hold HSBC responsible for it. 
Turning to Mrs Ms loss of earnings, I consider the main reason Mrs M has been unable to 
work is the abuse and its impact on her and her family. Whilst HSBC hasnt done what I think 
it should have, I dont believe its fair to say that had it done so Mrs M would have carried on 
working as she had before. 
Its important to remember that most of the distress Mrs M has suffered relates to the actions 
of Mr M. I agree with Mrs M that HSBC should have treated her sensitively and provided her 
with support, but it didnt do so. HSBC staff failed to follow internal policies designed to 
protect victims like Mrs M. This meant Mrs M had to contact numerous departments in HSBC 
and wait much longer than she should for the outcome of HSBCs investigation. So at an 
already extremely difficult time for Mrs M she was put to unnecessary stress and 
inconvenience. In addition to this, Mrs M had the worry of being held responsible for loans 
she didnt take out for around sixteen months. So Im persuaded HSBC should compensate 
Mrs M and that £1,500 is a fair amount in the circumstances. But Im not satisfied HSBC 
should be responsible for Mrs Ms legal fees, the choices she made when agreeing a divorce 
settlement or her loss of earnings. 
The award I am making is designed to compensate Mrs M for the additional distress and 
inconvenience she suffered because of HSBCs actions. But I have no power to fine or 
punish HSBC. My conclusion acknowledges that HSBC let her down and should have done 
more to support her.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs M:
-  £1,500 compensation;
- £1,898.17 as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman