DRN-3191341
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about Ageas Insurance Limited handling of claims under their 
foster household home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C have a home insurance policy underwritten by Ageas which covers their 
buildings and contents, amongst other things. The policy is specifically designed for 
households with foster children.
In July 2020, Mr C and Mrs C contacted Ageas to report damage to their home caused by 
one of the foster children in their care. They said hed damaged laminate flooring in a 
bedroom. And hed damaged the sealing in a bathroom causing a leak which also affected 
the dining room below the bathroom.
Ageas decided that there were two separate claims  one for the damage in the bedroom 
and one for the damage in the bathroom. And they accepted both claims. The claim for 
damage in the bedroom was settled in August 2020, to Mr C and Mrs Cs satisfaction.
The claim relating to the leak from the bathroom proved more problematic. Ageas initially 
asked Mr C and Mrs C to obtain quotes for the repairs. But this proved impossible at the 
time, partly it seems due to the pandemic. 
There was a small delay due to some discussions about whether an assessment could be 
carried out by video. But Ageas then appointed contractors to attend the property.
Mr C and Mrs C suspected the leak was due to the foster child picking off sealant from 
around the plug in the bath, which apparently he had admitted to. But the contractors said 
the damage was more extensive than could be explained by that cause alone. So, Ageas 
appointed surveyors to carry out a leak detection survey.
The surveyors said the leak was actually caused by defective sealing under the shower 
screen. There is a fixed shower screen attached to a further moveable screen  not an 
uncommon arrangement. It appears there was then some confusion in the communications 
between Ageas, the surveyor, the contractor and Mr C and Mrs C. 
Ageas told Mr C and Mrs C that the issues with the shower screen were due to wear and 
tear and so not covered by the policy. But they accepted that the policy did cover the 
damage caused by the leak, since Mr C and Mrs C couldnt have been aware of that 
damage occurring over time.
As a result of that communication, Mr C took steps to secure and repair the sealing under 
the moveable part of the shower scren. His assumption appears to have been that the 
contractors would fix the sealing around the fixed part of the screen. The repair works 
carried out by the contractors were completed in November 2020.
In February 2021, Mr C and Mrs C noticed a damp patch on the ceiling of their dining room. 
After they reported this, Ageas arranged for the surveyors to attend again, in March 2021.
The surveyor said the original leak had never been properly fixed. They said the original 
repair work was poor and had failed  specifically around sealing on the fixed part of the 
shower screen. And they identified further damage which had now occurred and needed to 
be fixed. Ageas made enquiries with their contractors, who said they hadnt carried out any 
work to the fixed shower screen  as per Ageas instructions at the time. 
It appears the further leak may be due to the fact that the problem with the sealant around 
the fixed shower screen, identified by the surveyor in 2020, had never been fixed. Mr and 
Mrs C assumed the contractors had dealt with it. The contractors say they assumed it had 
been left to Mr C and Mrs C to deal with, as per Ageas instructions.
Mr C and Mrs C made complaints to Ageas at different points in this process. I wont attempt 
to repeat them here in full. But essentially, they are unhappy with: 
delays in the handling of their claim (such that theyve now been without full use of 
the bathroom since July 2020); 
Ageas decision to treat the issues with the bedroom and bathroom as two claims, not 
one  which meant they were charged two excesses and have two claims on their 
history which will impact future premiums;
a data protection breach when Ageas sent an email to the wrong email address;
Ageas deciding they would not be responsible for further work to rectify the leak in 
the bathroom  and the damage caused by it - after February 2021.
Ageas have accepted that there were some unnecessary delays in their handling of the 
claims early on (before November 2020). They apologised and paid £100 in compensation 
for Mr C and Mrs Cs trouble and upset.
Mr C and Mrs C werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Ageas hadnt treated Mr C and Mrs C fairly. 
They thought Ageas should carry out the repairs recommended by the surveyor in March 
2021. And they said Ageas should pay Mr C and Mrs C a further £250 in compensation for 
their trouble and upset, in addition to the £100 already paid. 
But they said it was reasonable to deal with the damage reported by Mr C and Mrs C as two 
claims and they said Mr C and Mrs C suffered no harm or loss as a result of the mis-
addressed email.
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas accepted our investigators view. Theyve agreed that they cant show that their 
contractor didnt carry out repairs to the fixed shower screen. And so, they accept 
responsibility for carrying out the repairs now needed as a result of the on-going leak.
In my view, its very reasonable for Ageas to adopt that stance. And I think thats fair given 
the apparent confusion in the communications between Ageas - and their contractor and the 
surveyor  with Mr C and Mrs C. I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to put the damage to the shower screen (both the 
fixed screen and the moveable part) down to wear and tear. And so, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to decline that part of Mr C and Mrs Cs claim at the time. 
But there was clearly a difference of opinion between the contractor and the surveyor, at 
least, about what repairs were to be carried out by the contractor. And given the way that 
was communicated to Mr C and Mrs C, I think Ageas have now done the right thing in 
accepting that they should take responsibility for the repair work now required.
Mr C and Mrs C have said they can accept that part of our investigators view, as long as its 
understood that the repairs will be those recommended by the surveyor after their visit in 
March 2021. 
Mr C and Mrs C say the surveyor suggested that more work now needed to be done to 
replace floorboards and the wooden frame of the bath panel  both of which had now been 
compromised by the on-going leak. Theyve specified that the fixed shower screen needs to 
be sealed properly. And that floor tiles in the bathroom need to be replaced.
I dont think thats an unreasonable starting point. But I should stress that I can only require 
Ageas to accept the surveyors report and then deal with the matter in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Its not for us to act as a claims handler or to mediate between 
the parties as to how the repairs are carried out. 
If in future Mr C and Mrs C arent happy with the way Ageas carry out the repairs, they would 
be entitled to make another complaint to Ageas  and then to us if they arent happy with 
Ageas response.
Mr C and Mrs C have also asked that Ageas dont treat this as another, new claim  which 
would affect their claims history and, potentially, lead to them being charged another excess. 
I agree with that. Ageas arent dealing with a new claim here, theyre completing or rectifying 
repair works relating to the original claim. 
I suspect Ageas had no intention of doing so, but just for the sake of absolute clarity  and to 
set Mr C and Mrs Cs minds at rest - Ageas must not record this as a new, separate claim or 
treat it as such in any other way.
I agree with our investigator that the mis-addressed email caused no loss or harm to Mr C 
and Mrs C. Ageas have shown that they received an undeliverable message in response to 
that email. There was a simple human error in addressing it, which Ageas havent denied. 
But clearly there was no data breach  the email didnt go to an actual email address 
belonging to another person.
I also agree that it wasnt unreasonable for Ageas to treat this as two claims, not one. The 
damage was in separate areas of the house. And theres nothing to show it all occurred at 
the same time (or very close to it).  
The remaining issue for me to deal with is the compensation were going to require Ageas to 
pay for Mr C and Mrs Cs trouble and upset.
In response to our investigators view, Mr C has said he accepted the £100 Ageas has 
already paid, because he felt that was reasonable compensation for the wrongly addressed 
email. But he thinks a further £250 is insufficient given the inconvenience of not having use 
of the bathroom from July 2020.
Hes pointed out that the only other bathroom in the house in the en-suite to the bedroom occupied by himself and Mrs C. And that this was difficult during the pandemic when Mrs C 
had to shield  and because their home was used to house foster children. 
I can see how the bathroom being partly out of action for a considerable length of time made 
things more difficult for Mr C and Mrs C, particularly in their circumstances. Im very sorry 
that they experienced these problems. And I can understand their frustration and annoyance 
at any unnecessary delays.
That said, I also have to bear in mind that they werent without bathroom facilities entirely 
during this period, even if it wasnt very convenient for foster children to be using the en-suite 
bathroom. The issues also appear to have been around the bath / shower area, so the other 
facilities in the bathroom were still usable. And I should say that I cant hold Ageas 
responsible for the pandemic or its effect on Mr C and Mrs C.
And whilst I think its without much doubt that Mr C and Mrs C suffered considerable 
inconvenience during the time their bathroom was compromised, I also cant hold Ageas 
entirely responsible for Mr C and Mrs C not having a bathroom for the whole period after July 
2020.
Investigating the source(s) of the leak and carrying out the subsequent repairs would always 
have taken an amount of time  and would always have been inconvenient to Mr C and 
Mrs C, so I have to think about how much additional time was due to unnecessary delays 
caused by Ageas errors.
Im not going to try to count out the days and hours of delay which were Ageas fault. What I 
will say is that I think there were minor delays in the early stages of the claim. Ageas have 
admitted as much  and I note the £100 theyve paid Mr C and Mrs C so far was in 
compensation for these delays and not for the mis-addressed email.
Mr C and Mrs C first contacted Ageas about the leak at the end of July 2020. The repairs 
were completed by November  so within 3-4 months. Bearing in mind the pandemic, which 
made it difficult for Mr C to obtain quotes  and for Ageas to carry out inspections  Id say 
any unnecessary delays at this stage amounted to no more than a month or so.
I know Mr C thinks Ageas should have appointed a surveyor right at the outset, thus saving 
time. But I think theres a degree of hindsight in that. It wasnt unreasonable at first for Ageas 
to ask Mr C to obtain quotes. Nor was it unreasonable to suggest an assessment by video  
or to ask their contractors to estimate the work  before they asked the surveyor to become 
involved.
Theres also a period of time between November 2020, when the works were completed, 
through to February 2021 when Mr C and Mrs C spotted the further leak. It would be unfair 
to suggest that Ageas were responsible for any delays in that period given that, as far as 
they were concerned, the claim had been settled and the repairs completed.
When Mr C and Mrs C then informed Ageas that there was an on-going leak, I can see that 
Ageas rightly asked the surveyor to become involved again. And once theyd reported, 
Ageas asked the contractor for their observations.
Although Ageas have now accepted that they cant prove that their contractors didnt carry 
out any work on the fixed shower screen  and so have accepted their responsibility for 
putting things right  I dont think it was unreasonable of them to seek their contractors 
views and take some time to establish the facts.
On the face of it, Mr C and Mrs C made a claim in late July 2020 and were still without a properly functioning bathroom in mid-March 2021 when they brought their complaint to us, 
some seven months or so later. However, I dont think its justified to blame Ageas for all of 
that delay. Some things could have been done more quickly  and Ageas accept that. But 
there are periods in that seven months or so when either investigation and/or repair work 
was underway at a reasonable pace and when the issue appeared to have been fixed (as far 
as Ageas were aware).
Taking all of that into account  and bearing in mind the degree of inconvenience 
experienced by Mr C and Mrs C, I agree with our investigator that £350 in total  or another 
£250 on top of the £100 already paid  is fair and reasonable compensation for Mr C and 
Mrs Cs trouble and upset.
Putting things right
As suggested by our investigator, in order to put things right for Mr C and Mrs C, Ageas 
should now carry out further repairs in light of the report provide by the surveyor in March 
2021 and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. They should also pay Mr C and 
Mrs C a further £250 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Ageas Insurance Limited must:
pay for further repairs in line with the recommendations of the surveyors report of 
March 2021 and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr C and Mrs Cs policy;
pay Mr C and Mrs C a further £250 in compensation for their trouble and upset.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman