DRN-4025815
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax stopped him from making online 
bank transfers and blocked his account. 
What happened
Mr S has a current account with Halifax. He wanted to make an online bank transfer of 
£20,000 and then a further online transfer of £10,000 in one day. He was able to make the 
first transaction, but when he tried to make the second, the transaction was blocked.
He called Halifax to ask why he couldnt make the transfer. Halifax explained there was a 
£25,000 online daily transfer limit and the second transaction took him over this. It said he 
could attend a branch and make a CHAPS payment, or he could transfer the money the 
following day. Mr S was unhappy with this suggestion and asked if he could speak to the 
High Values team. 
The High Values team explained that the transfer could be made, but it would be subject to 
further checks. 
While Mr S was on the phone he had to wait for a period of time before he was transferred 
through to the High Values team. Unfortunately, he had to hang up before making the 
transfer.
Mr S originally complained about the restriction on his account and the fact he could only 
transfer £25,000 in one day. He later said during the call that he also wanted to complain 
about the length of time he had to wait on the phone to speak to the High Values team. 
Halifax responded and said there was a transfer limit of £25,000 per day on his account. It 
explained that Mr S could call the High Values team through the app if he wanted to transfer 
more than this. It did not address his concerns about the service he received.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. One of our Investigators considered 
the matter and said that Halifax was acting in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account when it stopped the second online transfer from going through. They also said that 
they were satisfied Halifax had tried to contact Mr S at a later date to discuss his concerns 
about the length of time he was on the telephone. Unfortunately, Mr S wasnt available, so 
this wasnt addressed in its final response. But the Investigator considered it and didnt think 
Halifax had done anything wrong. The Investigator acknowledged there was a wait, but they 
didnt think Halifax could be held responsible for the fact Mr S had to hang up and pick his 
children up from school. Mr S remained unhappy and asked for the case to be considered by 
an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Mr Ss main concern is that he couldnt make the second online bank transfer of £10,000  
which wouldve brought the total of his online transfers for that day to £30,000. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and they state there is a daily limit of 
£25,000 when making a faster payment online. Because Mr S had already made an online 
transfer of £20,000 using faster payment services, I think Halifax acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account when stopping the second transfer of £10,000.
When Mr S called up to complain, he was told he could make the transfer over the 
telephone, but hed need to discuss it with the High Values team. Alternatively, he could wait 
until the following day, or go to a branch to make a CHAPs payment. I think Halifax acted 
fairly when explaining Mr Ss options to him and I dont think it needed to do anything further.
Mr S was annoyed he had to wait on hold to talk to the High Values team and when his call 
was eventually answered he had to hang up because he was picking his children up from 
school. I appreciate this mustve been frustrating for him, but I dont think Halifax couldve 
done anything to prevent this. The High Values team is a small team of people, which means 
consumers might have to wait a little longer to speak to them. Throughout the call I think     
Mr S was kept updated, so I dont think Halifax needs to do anything further. 
Given what Ive said above, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman