DRN-2564170
The complaint
X is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay for a new worktop or 
for emergency repairs to a cupboard in respect of her Landlords Insurance claim for 
malicious damage.
What happened
In August 2017 X made a claim to RSA following her discovery of malicious damage to her 
tenanted property. As part of that claim RSA agreed to repair a worktop in the kitchen 
damaged by cigarette burns. X was unhappy with this as she felt that a repair wouldnt last 
very long. With regard to the cupboard doors, these were damaged with a hammer. However 
X decided, without reference to RSA, that emergency repairs costing £250 were necessary 
as her letting agent had advised that the doors wouldnt be satisfactory for new tenants as 
there were splinters in them. 
RSA said the worktop didnt need replacing and that if she had any issue with the repair 
carried out she should approach the contractor directly. With regard to the cupboard doors, 
RSA said that X went ahead with temporary repairs without consulting it. It said such repairs 
werent needed as there was no danger to health or safety. Nor did it accept that it made the 
property uninhabitable.  
Our investigator said that RSAs position, in respect of both issues, was reasonable.
X didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
preliminary issues
Firstly I am dealing here only with the complaints concerning the cupboard doors and the 
worktop. X has other complaints which are being looked at separately by this service. With 
regard to some of the complaints, there is an issue concerning our jurisdiction to consider 
them. This will be looked at in connection with those complaints but I should clarify here that 
cant override those jurisdiction questions and look at the complaints here.
There was an issue over jurisdiction in respect of this particular complaint raised by RSA. X 
complained about the worktop and cupboard doors in a complaint to this service in March 
2020, before RSAs final response letter in April. But Ive noted that X continued to 
correspond with this service about these complaints, particularly in an email of 30 May 2020. 
So the complaints were brought to us within six months of the final response letter from 
RSA. Accordingly I do have jurisdiction to consider them.
worktop
RSA said the worktop was repairable and didnt need replacement. It said the repairs carried 
out by a specialist contractor were guaranteed for twelve months, as would a replacement 
worktop. If X had any issues with the repair she should contact the contractor directly. 
I think RSA acted reasonably. Under the policy it isnt obliged to replace as new any 
damaged property. The policy says:
We may at Our own option reinstate or replace any Property destroyed or damaged without 
being bound to reinstate exactly or completely but only as circumstances permit and in 
reasonably sufficient manner.
The repair was guaranteed for twelve months and X did at the time have the option of 
contacting the contractor if she was unhappy with the repair. Additionally any repair 
authorised by RSA must be effective and lasting. So if X has problems with the repair even 
after the twelve months she can still raise this with RSA. Ive seen no evidence however that 
the repairs are unsatisfactory and this doesnt justify the worktop being replaced.
repairs to cupboard doors
When X reported the claim she was told by her letting agent that she couldnt rent out the 
property because the cupboard door had splinters. Without contacting RSA first X had the 
doors repaired on an emergency basis at a cost of £250 plus VAT. She wants to recoup this 
cost from RSA. RSA said the temporary repairs werent needed and that it would have been 
quite possible to reduce the risk of the splinters causing any harm. X says she was advised 
by her letting agents that she wouldnt be able to let the property with the cupboard in that 
state so she was mitigating any loss of rent.
The loss of rent is a different issue, and X hasnt complained about the eventual settlement 
of the claim. But the splinters werent a danger to life or health, and any risk could easily 
have been removed without paying £250 plus VAT. Whilst I note that X chose to go ahead 
with the emergency repairs without seeking RSAs authority first, that was a matter for her.  I 
dont think however that I can justify asking RSA to pay for the temporary repairs.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman