DRN-3327211
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she bought using a credit card supplied by Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC (Tesco).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesco, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section 
of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a 
credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Tesco are responsible for that breach of contract. The 
relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was about 
two years old but had only completed about 5,800 miles so I think a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect much wear and tear.
When we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation 
says we should consider whether it has proven durable. I dont think that can be said to be 
the case here.
The timing belt has failed, and the garage reports suggest there is significant engine 
damage. The garage Miss B took her car to have explained that the timing belt has failed 
prematurely and that theyd expect it to have lasted at least 60,000 miles and not the 22,236 
miles it did.
I understand that Miss B had been in possession of the car for about two years by the time it 
failed, and Tesco have suggested she needed to demonstrate that the car had not been of 
satisfactory quality from the beginning. I think Miss B has done that as shes provided 
reports from two garages who have evidenced the failed timing belt and shes also provided 
evidence from a garage who have explained the timing belt failed prematurely. In those 
circumstances I think the car hasnt proven durable and Tesco should therefore take some 
further action.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation would allow Tesco to repair the car, but Im not persuaded thats the 
most reasonable solution here. The evidence suggests that engine damage has occurred 
and whilst the extent of the damage is uncertain the expert view seems to suggest a new 
engine may be required. I think that its unlikely to be commercially viable to replace the 
engine in the car. 
The relevant legislation also requires the business to complete repairs in a reasonable 
timeframe and Miss B has been waiting for the car to be repaired since October 2020, so I 
dont think its fair for her to wait any longer for a resolution.
The investigator considered valuations for the car at the point it failed, and his calculations 
revealed that the car was worth about £5,750 at that time and had therefore lost about 
£1,180 in value since Miss B bought it. I would agree with his suggestion that £1,180 is a 
reasonable amount for Miss B to have paid for the use of the car over the time she had it 
and that it would therefore be fair for Tesco to refund the value of the car at the point of 
failure; that being £5,750. Should Tesco wish to take ownership of the car at that point they 
could do so, and, in that case, Miss B would sell the car to Tesco for that amount.
Miss B has also clearly experienced some distress and inconvenience. Shes explained 
shes had to drive an older, less suitable vehicle, since hers has been off the road and that 
shes been anxious about the complaint. Shes also had to refer her complaint to this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier by Tesco. In the circumstances I think Tesco 
should pay Miss B £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss B has provided two invoices she paid to have the car transported to and from the 
garage. I think they were both costs that Miss B incurred as a consequence of the car not 
being of satisfactory quality and in those circumstances Tesco should refund the costs of 
£102 and £70. They should add interest to that refund as Miss B has been deprived of the 
money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
Buy the car back from Miss B for £5,570 and collect it at no cost to her. Add 8% 
simple interest from the date she settled the balance until the date the complaint is 
settled.
Refund the £172 Miss B paid to transport the car to and from the garage. Add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss B £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman