DRN-4286975
The complaint
Mr A complains that Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) are responsible for a
reduction in his transfer value.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2023. Ive recapped here the background and my 
provisional findings. 
In April 2021 Mr A obtained a guaranteed cash equivalent transfer value of £291,279.70 for
deferred benefits he held in a former employers defined benefit occupational pension
scheme (OPS). The transfer value was guaranteed for three months.
Mr A sought advice from Grove in November 2021 (by which time the guarantee date for the
transfer value hed earlier obtained had expired) about transferring to a personal pension
arrangement. Mr A underwent Groves Triage Service and Abridged Advice was provided.
Mr A confirmed on 19 February 2022 that he wanted to proceed to Full Advice. Grove called
Mr A on 25 February 2022. Groves recommendation was that Mr A should transfer. But
Groves formal suitability report wasnt issued until 20 April 2022. A new transfer value was
then obtained  it was £275,883.43, so some £15,396 less than the transfer value Mr A had
got earlier.
Grove emailed Mr A on 7 June 2022 following a conversation the day before. Amongst other
things Grove said it wasnt responsible for the reduction in the transfer value and Mr A didnt
have to accept the reduced transfer value. Mr A had indicated he still wanted to transfer. If
he decided against transferring hed retain the security of the OPS and any transfer value
offered later could increase.
Mr A complained to Grove but the complaint wasnt upheld. Grove said that when Mr A had
approached Grove via his independent financial adviser (IFA) hed given Grove a transfer
value that had already expired. So it would need to be recalculated before any transfer could
be arranged. Grove said it was usual practice to proceed on the basis of the (out of date)
value so as to avoid the client paying a recalculation fee when it wasnt known what the
advice would be  if the advice was that the client shouldnt transfer and that advice was
accepted thered be no need to get a new transfer value. Abridged Advice had been given to
Mr A and the report had confirmed that where the transfer value had already expired, it
would be recalculated and could go down. So the client may want to obtain an up to date
transfer value before deciding whether to proceed to Full Advice.
Grove agreed thered been a delay in issuing the report to Mr A. Grove said that was
because of compliance checks and necessary rework. Dealing with defined benefit transfers
was extremely complex, difficult and lengthy. Groves compliance team review all cases and
the rework and amendments required when reviewing Mr As file were essential to ensure
the advice Grove provided was correct. Grove referred to what it said in the welcome pack
about the work involved. Full Advice had been provided to Mr A based on the expired value.
A new value had been requested in error for Mr As wife. Although the value had increased it
couldve reduced. A fact finding call had been cancelled due to staff illness. It was pushed
back a couple of weeks but it had no overall impact on timescales as in the interim
calculations and contact with the OPS could still take place.
Mr A remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us. He was unhappy with the time
taken and the fact that his transfer value reduced. Hed received a positive recommendation
to transfer on 25 February 2022. Hed asked Grove if he needed to do anything else  for
example, get an updated transfer value. He was told no but at about the same time Grove
was also advising Mr As wife in connection with an OPS transfer and a new transfer value
was obtained for her. Mr A says he was told he should receive the full report (for his transfer)
the following week with everything explained. But the report took a further eight weeks. Mr A
also had to get a new transfer value which he was expecting Grove to obtain. Mr A expected
that by December 2021 the value would be £320,000. Mr A felt Grove had mishandled the
matter and that cost him over £20,000.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but she didnt uphold the complaint.
She was satisfied Grove had provided advice to Mr A around the estimated timescales which
had been explained throughout the process.
Mr A didnt accept that and requested an ombudsmans decision. We asked Grove for some
more information about the time taken. Well share what Grove said with Mr A.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As disappointment that the actual transfer value paid was lower than the
earlier transfer value hed been quoted. Mr As view is that, had a new transfer value been
requested at an earlier stage in the process, it wouldve been higher and, on the basis his
transfer couldve been completed within the three month guarantee period, hed have got a
higher transfer amount.
Mr A approached Grove with an already expired transfer value. So there was no guarantee
date to meet. Mr A signed a form acknowledging that advice couldnt be provided before the
transfer value expired and that Grove couldnt be held responsible if the transfer value fell or
for the cost of the recalculation fee. Neither Mr A nor his independent financial adviser (IFA)
asked Grove to obtain a new transfer value. Mr A knew all along that Grove was working
with an expired transfer value and that a new transfer value would ultimately be required if
he decided to go ahead with a transfer. But, even though Grove wasnt working to a deadline
as such, Id still expect Grove to deal with the matter promptly and efficiently and in line with
reasonable time frames.
Groves initial letter of 17 November 2021 said there was a lot of information needed from
the OPS which might not always be supplied in one go which would mean chasing the OPS.
The letter added that dealing with defined benefit transfers was a very slow process and it
could take up to around three months to gather all the information required and provide a full 
recommendation. The section headed How much time do we need to provide you with full
advice in the welcome pack enclosed with the letter repeated that. And added, given the
complexity and volume of the work required, it was difficult to provide Full Advice and secure
the original transfer value within the three month guarantee date. I think Grove did try to
manage Mr As expectations that things would likely take some time.
As to the time actually taken, Grove started work on Mr As case on 16 November 2021.
Groves suitability letter wasnt produced until 20 April 2021. Thats over five months later. I
agree that defined benefit transfers are complex. Theres a considerable amount ofinformation that needs to be obtained and detailed calculations have to be undertaken. Its
also the case that sometimes information needs to be updated during the process. But, as
Ive said, Id expect Grove to be able to show that it dealt with things reasonably promptly.
We asked Grove to provide further information as to how the advice process in Mr As case
progressed. So that we could consider the time taken overall we asked for a detailed
timeline for both periods  up to 25 February 2022 (when Groves recommendation that Mr A
should transfer was made  and from then up until 20 April 2022 when Groves formal
suitability report was issued.
Looking first at the time taken from 16 November 2021, when Grove said it would begin work
on Mr As case, until 25 February 2022, I dont think theres anything that indicates Grove
couldve dealt with things any quicker. As Grove points out, it took seven weeks (from 18
November 2021 until 27 January 2022) for the OPS to provide an immediate retirement
quotation. Grove seems to have chased things up regularly, on a fortnightly or more
frequently basis.
I note that a fact find call from Grove had to be rearranged  from 22 December 2021 to 4
January 2022. But I dont think that was unreasonable given the holiday period and, as
Grove points out, information from the OPS was still awaited. Once that was to hand the
Abridged Advice report was completed quickly  it was sent to Mr A on 7 January 2022 and
a call arranged with him on 14 January 2022. He returned his instruction to proceed to Full
Advice on 19 January 2022.
After that it took until 25 February 2022 for Grove to make its recommendation. I think Grove
was in a position to make its recommendation call on 15 February 2022. Grove made efforts
to contact Mr A to book that call but Mr A wasnt available and the earliest the call could be
booked was for 25 February 2022.
From what Ive seen I dont think theres any evidence of any unreasonable delay on Groves
part up until 25 February 2022.
I think Mr As concerns centre on the period from then until 20 April 2022 when the suitability
report was issued. Grove has acknowledged that it did take longer to issue a suitability
report than anticipated due to compliance feedback and rework. As Ive said above, we
asked Grove for further details as to exactly what that had entailed. Grove responded, but
the information Grove provided wasnt as detailed or as specific as what was supplied in
respect of the previous period. Grove referred to the high regulatory requirements and
scrutiny which defined benefit transfers attract and the need for compliance requirements to
be fully addressed.
I dont dispute that but Grove didnt provide details as to exactly what was required in order
for those requirements to be met  such as what, if any, further information was needed and
from what parties and how long that took to be obtained, what further analysis was required
and why and how long that took, and exactly what further steps Groves compliance
department wanted. In the absence of that sort of information as to exactly what issues 
arose and how these had to be addressed, I cant be satisfied that all the further work was
required and, if it was, if it was undertaken within a reasonable time frame.
Further, on the one hand, while Grove said Mr As advice was considered on a standalone
basis, Grove has also said there was an intrinsic link between Mr As transfer and his wifes.
I think Grove is saying that issues arising with Mrs As transfer may have impacted on Mr As
case. But I dont really see why that shouldve been the case.
It seems Mr A was updated fairly regularly but that may have been because he was chasingprogress. And it doesnt negate that based on what Ive seen, Grove took too long to process
Mr As case between 25 February 2022 and 20 April 2022. It took two months to issue the
suitability report which, according to Mr A, was promised a week or so after the call on 25
February 2022. Although I can accept that some issues mightve arisen, in the absence of
further details as to exactly what those were and how they needed to be addressed, almost
two months was too long. Id have thought, at most, a month wouldve been adequate.
Grove has said that any delay made no difference as the transfer value was always going to
have to be recalculated anyway. I can see that argument but Mr A has suggested that an
earlier transfer value wouldve been higher. Hes suggested that a transfer value of about
£320,000 wouldve been available in December 2021. But I dont know what thats based on.
Mr A had obtained a transfer value in April 2021 of £291,279.70. The transfer value which he
accepted was issued about a year or so later and was lower  £275,883.43. So it would
appear the trend was downwards.
I note that at about the same time Mr As wifes transfer value (from the same OPS) had
increased. Mr As expectation may have been that his transfer value would also increase.
But that doesnt mean his Mr As transfer value wouldve done too. It isnt possible to predict
what will happen with transfer values. Or what the transfer value wouldve been on any
particular day. Further, as Ive said, I dont think there was any delay on Groves part up until
25 February 2022. So I cant say that Mr A shouldve been able to take advantage of a
transfer value that might have been on offer in December 2021. I think, at best, things
mightve have advanced a month or so earlier than was actually the case. I dont think
theres any reason to suggest that the transfer value which might then have been offered
wouldve been significantly different to the transfer value Mr A actually accepted.
Although Im unable to say that Mr A suffered any financial loss, I think he did suffer some
distress and inconvenience because Grove took longer to deal with things than it shouldve
done. I think a payment of £300 would be fair and reasonable.
Grove accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr A didnt and made a number of comments. He said the estimated transfer value of 
£320,000 was based on the fact that his wifes transfer value increased by over 10%. He 
said the pensions were identical and in the same OPS so there was no reason to doubt that 
his transfer value wouldve increased similarly. 
Some of his other comments related to his wifes planned transfer of benefits in the same 
OPS and which hadnt gone ahead. Mr A said the point of them both transferring was the 
flexibility it wouldve given them as a couple to draw the income they required and still have 
substantial cash available at age 70 as shown on the spreadsheet Mr A had provided. 
Mr A suggested a realistic figure for loss would be £45,000 between the two funds (that is 
the transfer value of about £292,000 paid in respect of Mr As OPS benefits and the transfer 
value of circa £88,000 issued for his wife on 13 December 2021 (which she was unable to 
accept before it expired). 
Mr A maintained Grove shouldve acted with more urgency. Instead Mr A had to do all the 
chasing, including suggesting that Grove use the phone rather than just rely on email. Mr A 
would email each Monday for an update to be told that Grove was due to chase that week. 
Mr A said compensation amounts should be higher to reflect the inconvenience, not just for 
now but also for the future as the flexible plan is now unavailable. He and his wifes transfers 
were linked. A positive recommendation was given to Mr A based on the spreadsheet hed 
prepared setting out details of his and Mrs As financial position and a clear plan showing where the income was going to be coming from up to age 70. The adviser said hed try to do 
Mrs As Full Advice call the following week because the same decision would be made as it 
was a joint venture which the adviser understood. But the call was made by a different 
adviser who wasnt prepared to look at the spreadsheet Mr A had prepared, even though the 
whole plan relied on both funds being transferred and leaving Mrs A as an active member of 
the OPS in respect of her current period of service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I understand Mr As point about his and his wifes transfers being linked and their 
plans having been upset by Mrs As transfer not proceeding, Im only looking here at Mr As 
complaint. His wife has also complained and that complaint has been dealt with separately. 
Ive considered Mr As comments but my views remain as explained in my provisional 
decision. Ive set out those findings in full above and they form part of this decision. 
Essentially Mr As position is that, had a new transfer value been obtained (Grove was 
working on a transfer value Mr A had obtained in April 2021, over six months before Mr A 
asked Grove for advice) in around December 2021 it wouldve been higher. 
I understand why Mr A considers that wouldve been the case. But, as he accepts, theres no 
real evidence to support that. His wifes transfer value increased which might suggest Mr As 
wouldve done the same. But, although Mr A has said the pensions are identical, thats 
unlikely to be the case. Id assume Mr A and his wife have different periods of service and 
years membership and different salaries. Transfer value calculations are complex and 
sensitive and based on a number of factors including age, scheme retirement age, salary at 
the date of leaving and whether the member is married or single. 
Assumptions are also used such as life expectancy (a higher life expectancy will increase 
the transfer value) and cost of living  if inflation is expected to rise then transfer values are 
likely to increase too. But rising interest rates or yields will lower the transfer value. And 
relatively small changes or differences can sometimes cause fairly significant fluctuations in 
value. So I cant say its necessarily the case that Mr As transfer value wouldve increased 
even if his wifes did. 
But, in any event, I dont think any comparison between the actual transfer value paid and 
what the transfer value might have been in December 2021 is relevant. Ive said that Grove 
took too long to process Mr As case between 25 February and 20 April 2022. I dont think 
there was any delay up to 25 February 2022. So I cant say that a new transfer value ought 
to have been requested in December 2021 and before Grove was able to say, having given 
Abridged Advice, that Full Advice was required. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think Groves delay  which I thought was 
probably about a month or so  meant that Mr A had suffered a financial loss although I did 
think hed suffered distress and inconvenience because Grove took longer to deal with 
things than it shouldve done. That remains my view and I maintain that £300 is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience (including any chasing that Mr A had to do in 
an effort to move things forward) that Mr A suffered in consequence of delay on Groves 
part. My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Grove Pension Solutions Limited must pay Mr A £300 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman