DRN-3005057
The complaint
Ms D says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) breached her 
instructions to withdraw only the cash element of her Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) by going further to liquidate her SIPP investments  at a significant loss  for the 
withdrawal. HL disputes the complaint, it says her SIPP is serviced on an execution only 
basis and that the instruction she gave triggered the liquidation that happened.
What happened
Two of our investigators looked into the complaint  the second reviewed the complaint 
afresh. Both concluded that the complaint should not be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons. In the main, the first investigator said:
The execution only service on which the SIPP was based meant HL was unable to 
advise Ms D on the use of her SIPP.
The key telephone conversation between Ms D and HL happened on 24 April 2020, a 
recording of that call has been shared with this service and has been listened 
to/considered.
Ms Ds initial enquiry in the call was about withdrawing the cash element of her SIPP, 
as she wished to move it into her Individual Savings Account (ISA); HL explained 
that an isolated withdrawal could not happen and that, in terms of using her SIPP, 
she needed to select from three options  an annuity, a drawdown arrangement or a 
lump-sum payment; each option was explained to her and HL offered to send her a 
brochure with further explanations, but it repeated that it could not recommend an 
option to her; her enquiry then veered away from her initial request, as she asked 
about taking tax free cash from the SIPP; in response, HL explained the drawdown 
option again; she move further from her initial enquiry by asking about liquidating her 
entire SIPP and, in response, HL referred to the need for a risks assessment and to 
the need for Ms D to make herself aware of the consequences of such a step; she 
then confirmed that she did not want an annuity and that she was not concerned 
about tax implications but just wanted the complete lump sum from the SIPP, so she 
selected the lump sum withdrawal option; within that, she also selected the small 
pots sub-option, due to the size of her SIPP, which was explained to her; and she 
then agreed to receive the small pots application form, which HL agreed to send her.
Based on the contents of the call, selection of the small pots option was not a 
recommendation from HL. HL limited itself to providing only information during the 
call.
Ms Ds selection was misinformed, by her own actions, because despite numerous 
prompts by HL she declined to properly educate herself about the options. The form 
did not provide for withdrawal of a specific amount, so she should have enquired 
further if she wanted a specific sum. HL sent her the form she asked for and, upon 
receipt of the completed form from her it liquidated the SIPP in a timely manner, it 
was not obliged to time the movements in the market in the course of doing so. HL 
has no fault in the matter.
Ms D disagreed with these findings. The second investigator, upon review, summarised 
broadly the same findings and in addition:
He reflected Ms Ds claims that she never instructed sale of her stock and that she 
expressed she would not sell her stock at a loss of over 50%; but he noted that the 
recording of the call supported neither claim.
He noted that the brochure she was offered explained that the small pots option 
amounted to a liquidation of her SIPP.
Ms D retained her disagreement with the outcome and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as expressed by both investigators for 
broadly the same reasons they gave. I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Very reliable evidence exists in this case, in terms of the recording of 24 April 2020 (in which 
Ms Ds initial and concluding intentions/instructions are clear) and in terms of a copy of her 
completed application form, which has been shared with us.
The contents of the telephone call are mainly as the investigators summarised. Ms Ds SIPP 
had a cash holding, resulting from a tax relief that had been received in the SIPP shortly 
before her enquiry. The rest (and majority) was invested in stock and, initially, she enquired 
about withdrawing the cash. As the conversation developed, her underlying intention to 
consider ways of liquidating and withdrawing her funds away from the SIPP, in order to 
consider alternatives for her capital, emerged. She expressed as much during the 
conversation and suggested a dissatisfaction with the notion of leaving her assets in a 
pension, which she did not appear to consider productive. The conversation led to and 
concluded with her consideration of options to liquidate and withdraw a complete cash 
lump sum from the SIPP  hence her dismissal of the annuity option and her selection of the 
lump sum option.
Ms D was clearly told, more than once, that HL could not advise her, that she nevertheless 
needed guidance/advice, that she should seek it [the call handler referred her to Pension 
Wise in this respect] and that she should inform herself about the options and the potential 
consequences of each before making her decision. HL appears to have been prompted to 
repeat this message because Ms D declared she could not understand the options and 
needed guidance. However, notably, the call handlers repetitions of the options and his 
explanations of the options appears to have eventually aided Ms D to understand that she 
did not want an annuity and did not want a drawdown arrangement, and she expressly 
selected the lump sum option because it enabled the complete withdrawal she wanted.
A copy of the email sent to Ms D by HL (on 27 April 2020), as a follow-up to the call, shows 
that she was provided with a written summary of what she was told during the call and 
provided with a Your Options at Retirement guide which provided even more detailed 
information, relevant to her enquiries and considerations at the time. The email repeated 
notice about Ms D taking advice on the matter and reminded her about using Pension Wise 
to obtain free advice on her options.In the application form she asked for, Ms D ticked yes to the question  Have you received 
guidance from Pension Wise?; she also ticked yes to the question  Have you received 
personal advice from a regulated financial adviser?. I consider this evidence that Ms D 
knew about the importance of taking advice but, as it appears, chose not to take such 
advice. It also stands as evidence that HL ought reasonably to have been assured that it 
could proceed with the completed and returned form without any need to verify anything with 
her. This, in my view, defeats the argument she has made that HL should have contacted 
her to double check her request a final time, before executing it. Given that it was told  
through what Ms D confirmed in the form  that she had received advice, and given that it 
had no role to advise her request (or how she completed the form), I do not consider that 
there was any call for it to perform any such verification. 
The declaration Ms D signed in the form also included notice about submission of the form 
resulting in liquidation of the SIPP in full and final settlement. I consider this evidence of 
notice to her that she was asking for such a liquidation by completing and submitting the 
form  and such a liquidation is what happened when her form was executed.
The form Ms D completed and submitted was what she asked for; it matched the lump sum 
small pots option that she selected; and it served the purpose, with notice of such purpose 
within it, of liquidating her SIPP, as HL proceeded to do. For the reasons addressed in this 
decision, I do not consider that HL breached her instructions and I do not uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman