DRN-1029008
The complaint
Mr Cs complained about problems with his account with TSB Bank plc (TSB).  And about 
the amount of compensation TSB paid him for this.
What happened
In April 2018, TSB moved its customers accounts to a new computer system.  There were 
problems with the migration, which were reported widely in the press.  The problem affected 
many TSB customers, including Mr C.
Mr C does a lot of his banking by phone because he is disabled, which makes it difficult for 
him to travel.  Between April and July 2018, he tried to make a number of payments by 
phone (including his rent and some bills) but couldnt.  And he couldnt make them when he 
went to the nearest branch.  He ended up making the payments at the Post Office.  He had 
to pay a fee for this. 
Mr C was also worried thered been fraud on his account because it had been blocked.  Hed 
had to visit a branch to sort this out too.  Altogether he had to make 4 or 5 trips to a branch 
because of the problems.  
Mr C complained to TSB.  TSB replied on 8 January 2019.  They apologised that they hadnt 
replied more quickly.  They said this was because a lot of customers had complained about 
the migration problems.  But theyd looked at his complaint and agreed their service hadnt 
been as good as it should have.  They paid Mr C £525 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience this had caused.  And they paid him another £78 to cover what hed 
spent travelling to the branch and using the Post Office to pay his bills.
Mr C wasnt happy with this.  He thought TSB hadnt taken his disabilities into account when 
they decided how much compensation to pay him.  And hed been very worried by the fraud 
blocks on his account, which made him think someone was trying to defraud him.  TSB 
reviewed their decision and wrote to Mr C in July 2019.  They said theyd seen they hadnt 
covered all of his costs, so they paid him an extra £28.  But they didnt increase the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with what TSB had done, so he complained to us.  He told us he didnt 
think that TSB had paid him enough to compensate him.  He thought £1000 (including what 
hed already had) was the right amount.  And he was unhappy that TSB hadnt contacted 
him to ask him if he accepted their offer; theyd just paid the money into his account.
Our investigator considered all the evidence.  He thought that the amount of compensation 
TSB paid was fair.  So he didnt think they should be asked to do anything else.  Mr C didnt 
agree, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done that, I dont think TSB need to do anything more to compensate Mr C.  Ill 
explain why.
I need to decide if TSB dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly.  That means looking at the impact 
the migration problems had on him as an individual.  
Ive looked at the letter TSB sent Mr C in January 2019.  It sets out Mr Cs complaints and 
answers them one by one.  And it tells him how much compensation theyll pay, how they 
calculated it and when it would be paid.  Im satisfied by the detail of the letter theyve dealt 
with Mr Cs individual concerns.
Mr C wasnt sure TSB had taken account of his disabilities.  They meant that the problems 
had a bigger impact on him than on others, because its harder for him to travel to a branch.  
I completely understand that he wants to be sure TSB looked at his circumstances properly.
TSBs letter says that visiting a branch was particularly inconvenient considering your 
disability.  I can say from this that TSB did recognise that Mr C was more severely affected 
than others.  But they didnt explain how theyd decided to give £525 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.  So I can understand why Mr C wouldnt be sure that his 
disability had been taken into account in coming to that figure.
Ive looked at TSBs case report.  That records the problems Mr C had with TSB.  And that 
those problems had a bigger impact on him because of his disabilities. It shows his 
compensation payment was increased to reflect this.  So Im satisfied that TSB did take Mr 
Cs disabilities into account.   
Mr C also complained that TSB didnt give him the chance to accept the compensation 
before they paid it into his account.  But its clear that TSB wanted to deal with the 
complaints they had as quickly as possible.  This helped them do that.  And it didnt stop Mr 
C asking TSB to review their decision or bring the complaint to us.  
Mr C wants his compensation increased to a total of £1000. Ive thought carefully about this. 
But there werent any other consequences of the migration problems; for example, he wasnt 
charged interest on late payments and there wasnt any effect on his credit file.  Mr C was 
worried about the fraud blocks, and I can appreciate this wouldve been very concerning. But 
I dont think thats separate, because it was caused by the migration problems too.  And TSB 
included it in their response to the complaint so Im satisfied they took those concerns into 
account when offering compensation.  And Im not going to ask them to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about TSB Bank plc.  
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Helen StaceyOmbudsman