DRN-2325708
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint about TSB Bank plc (TSB) relates to TSBs failure in updating his address 
details when asked to do so.
What happened
Mr H contacted TSB to advise them of a change in his address. At that time, he had four 
accounts with TSB. When checking his online statements over a year later he noticed the 
error and notified TSB who corrected it. TSB acknowledged that three of the accounts were 
not changed to show his new address. TSB apologised for their error and paid Mr H £150 in 
compensation.
Mr H didnt think the level of compensation was high enough for what he described as TSBs 
negligence and data breach. He said he had been caused a significant amount of distress 
as he was unaware of whether his personal details had been incorrectly provided to 
someone else.
Mr H was unhappy with TSBs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that it was more likely than not 
that there hadnt been a breach in confidentiality and that the compensation paid was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts are that Mr H opened four accounts with TSB  three in December 2018 
and one in January 2019. Mr H asked TSB to update his address following his house move, 
but they failed to do so, and it wasnt until August 2020 that Mr H realised that it had not 
been done. 
Mr H feels strongly that there has been a data protection breach and a breach of 
confidentiality. I must point out that its not the role of this service to decide whether or not 
theres been a data breach - only the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) can do that. If 
Mr H wishes to complain to the ICO, there is more information on how to do this on its 
website.
What I can look at is whether there has been a breach of confidentiality. Mr Hs complaint is 
that TSB cant say with 100% certainty whether or not it issued correspondence by post to 
him. I agree that it is unclear, and it is impossible to say whether such correspondence has 
been sent. I certainly empathise with Mr H as it would have come as no little surprise to learn 
that over a year after notifying TSB of his correct details, the changes had not been made.
And I know Mr H feels that because TSB cant give him a conclusive answer regarding the 
issue of correspondence to his old address, that of itself suggests such correspondence has 
been issued. But, working on the evidence that is available I think that it is highly unlikely. I 
say that for the following reasons.
TSB have confirmed that Mr H was registered for paperless statements which means that 
those documents would have been sent to him electronically. Such documents wouldnt 
therefore have found their way to anyone else.
Mr H also registered for paperless correspondence. TSB accept they cannot rule out that 
some correspondence (either marketing or from their collections department) might have 
been sent to him through the post. That accords with information from the web archive for Mr 
Hs type of accounts. But TSB have further clarified that their collections department didnt 
write to Mr H as he didnt have any debt with them, so I can rule out there being any 
correspondence going astray in that respect.
Our investigator also made the point that as Mr H had only recently opened his accounts 
TSB would not have had any need to issue him with new cards either. I agree, which means 
there is no risk of a confidentiality breach in this respect.
So, the only possible correspondence that could have been sent to Mr H was marketing 
literature and TSB have confirmed that that type of documentation does not contain any 
customer account details anyway. But, that said, even if it had been sent out to Mr H I note 
from his email sent to TSB on 5 June 2019 that he had set up a mail re-direction. So, it is 
more likely than not that if any marketing correspondence, or indeed any other 
correspondence, had been issued to Mr H it would have been redirected to his correct 
address. 
So, I do agree with Mr H that TSB made an error in not updating his address with respect to 
all his accounts. Fortunately, on the balance of probabilities there has been no damage 
caused. Indeed, there is no known breach of confidentiality.
TSB has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr H with 
£150. Mr H doesnt think thats enough, so Ive given this some further thought. In the 
absence of any loss to Mr H, but taking into account the upset and inconvenience I can see 
this would have caused, I think what TSB paid is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
TSB Bank plc has already paid Mr H £150 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair and 
reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before . 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman