DRN-3787475
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money she lost as a 
result of what she believes was a scam.
What happened
In January 2022, Mrs K agreed with a tradesperson for them to carry out some work on her 
roof. Mrs K exchanged a number of messages with the tradesperson about the work to be 
done, the tradesperson visited her property to carry out the work and Mrs K then made a 
payment of £420 to the bank account details the tradesperson had given her. But when 
Mrs K later checked the work the tradesperson had done, she wasnt happy they had done 
what had been agreed.
Mrs K complained to Nationwide that the tradesperson hadnt done what was agreed. 
Nationwide investigated but said, as the tradesperson had visited Mrs Ks property and done 
some work, it felt this was civil dispute and so it didnt agree to refund the payment she had 
made. Mrs K wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They werent satisfied the tradesperson 
had set out from the beginning to defraud Mrs K. So they thought the matter was a civil 
dispute between Mrs K and the tradesperson, and didnt think Nationwide should have to 
refund the payment Mrs K had made. Mrs K disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Nationwide to refund the money 
Mrs K has lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers 
are only covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Nationwide should refund the money Mrs K lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether Mrs K has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the tradesperson set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Mrs K has sent us copies of the text messages between her and the tradesperson. And from 
these messages it appears she initially contacted the tradesperson, so she wasnt cold-
called or approached about having work done. And the messages dont appear to show the 
tradesperson putting any significant pressure on Mrs K to have the work done.
The messages also seem to show that the tradesperson visited Mrs Ks property before the 
work was agreed, which I would expect of a legitimate tradesperson. They show Mrs K and 
the tradesperson negotiating the price and discussing potential future work. And there 
appear to be messages between them after some work was supposedly completed too, 
which I wouldnt necessarily expect from a scammer.
Mrs K also only made the payment to the tradesperson after they supposedly carried out the 
work, which is unusual for a scammer as they will usually try to get as much money as 
possible upfront and before having to do much work.
Weve also received information from the tradespersons bank that their account is still open, 
the bank has no concerns about how it is being used and no other scam claims have been 
made against the tradespersons account. And scammers usually aim to scam multiple 
people, and so wed expect to see a number of claims raised against them or concerns 
about money moving through their account.
Its clear the agreement between Mrs K and the tradesperson didnt go as planned. And I 
appreciate that Mrs K feels the work that was agreed hasnt been done and that she has 
now had another tradesperson redo the work on her roof. So I understand why she feels so 
strongly about what has happened. But, based on the evidence I have, I think this was likely 
a case of a legitimate agreement that subsequently went wrong. I dont think the 
tradesperson set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mrs K, or that Mrs K has 
been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payment Mrs K made to the tradesperson is covered under the CRM 
code, or that Nationwide should be required to refund the money Mrs K lost.
I sympathise with the position Mrs K has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the tradesperson. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair to hold Nationwide 
responsible for the money she lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman