DRN-4010342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance, has rejected the claim they made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the Act) in relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the 
supplier.
Mr and Mrs S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs S purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. Mr and Mrs S financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale that was repayable over ten years.
In 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under section 75 and section 140 
of the Act to Clydesdale. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made, which made Clydesdales 
relationship with Mr and Mrs S unfair on them:
The amount generated from the feed-in-tariff (FIT) would cover the monthly loan 
repayments.
Clydesdale said the claim was made too late, so it had no liability.
Our adjudicator said the claim was made in time, since under section 140 of the Act the 
limitation period would only begin once the relationship ended. That relationship was 
ongoing because Mr and Mrs S were still repaying the loan. And misrepresentations could 
be considered under section 140 as they could make the relationship between Clydesdale 
and Mr and Mrs S unfair on them. However, having looked at what happened, our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, since they didnt think there had been a 
misrepresentation.  
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr and Mrs S were told by the supplier that the system would be self-funding
They were told to take out the finance and that they could ask for a settlement figure 
to pay it off anytime for a big reduction in the interest.
The salesperson didnt go through any paperwork work them, they were just asked to 
sign it. 
They were told they needed to sign up there and then as the FIT rates were reducing 
overnight.
As our adjudicator couldnt resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. I havent 
considered section 75 because my consideration of the matter under section 140 includes 
looking at whether or not there was a misrepresentation  and Ive concluded there wasnt 
one. 
Section 56 is relevant because it says that any negotiations between Mr and Mrs S and the 
supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Clydesdale. 
Section 140 allows the courts to consider whether the relationship between a debtor and 
creditor is unfair on the debtor, which can include looking at how a linked agreement was 
sold  such as an agreement to buy solar panels with a point-of-sale loan.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Clydesdale had a duty to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly when responding to their claim. 
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Clydesdale. 
These include the credit agreement, contract, and performance estimate.
The credit agreement set out what Mr and Mrs S would pay for the system including the 
monthly loan repayment and the overall amount due. 
The contract showed the loan was repayable in 120 monthly repayments of £100.13, with a 
total amount payable for the system of £12,015.60.
The performance estimate shows the estimated annual generation and income as:
3,088 kWh per year electricity generated
£429 generation tariff payments
£74 export tariff payments
£232 electricity savings
£735 estimated annual benefit
The estimated annual benefit is clearly much less than the annual loan repayments (12 x 
£100.13) of £1,201.56. I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the 
solar panel system as self-funding  in that the benefits would cover the monthly loan 
repayments  while providing clear documentation showing it would not.
SummaryHaving carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr 
and Mrs S to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no reason to think the 
relationship between Mr and Mrs S was unfair on them.
While I think that Clydesdale shouldve considered Mr and Mrs S claim under section 140 of 
the Act, rather than saying it wasnt made in time, this wouldve made no difference to the 
outcome. So, I think that Mr and Mrs S wouldve ended up bringing a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman anyway. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman