DRN-4206824
The complaint
Mrs J complains on behalf of Mr C about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) declined a claim under his motor insurance policy. Mr C is represented in this 
case, but for ease Ill refer to him throughout. When I mention Admiral I also mean its 
suppliers and investigators.
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car.
In the early hours of 15 April 2022 Mr C says he was called by the police whod found his car 
which had been involved in an incident. He said he was woken up by the call.
The car had been taken from outside his house using his keys. Mr C thought his keys had 
been stolen using a technique known as fish hooking as there wasnt any damage to his 
house.
The car was recovered and inspected. It was damaged and Admiral declared it beyond 
economical repair. It said it was a category S write off.
Admiral asked Mr C for evidence about how hed found out about the theft. It found some 
inconsistencies in his version of events, and it declined his claim.
Mr Cs complaint includes delays to his claim, that he didnt get calls back when they were 
promised, and the decision on his claim. Admiral paid him £50 for not calling him back. But it 
didnt uphold the rest of his complaint.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. She said she thought Admiral acted fairly in its investigation of the 
events of that night. Mr C hadnt provided it with all the information it had asked for and what 
they had wasnt explained to its satisfaction. She said that Admiral didnt unavoidably delay a 
complex claim that needed investigation.
Mr C didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I realise this will be a considerable 
disappointment to him and Ill explain why.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, and fairly and reasonably. 
Admiral said it had declined Mr Cs claim because hed failed to explain why hed used his 
phone repeatedly between the hours of 0000 and 0100 when he said he was asleep. 
Admiral were able to evidence that his crashed car was reported to the police around 0025, 
and someone had called him around 0054, apparently waking him up. But his phone had 
been used several times to various numbers, including a non-emergency number and the 
emergency number, between those times.
The police report shows that the car incident was reported around 0025 and they were told 
about the theft of it around 0048. These inconsistencies in Mr Cs statement led to his claim 
being declined. It also asked Mr C for further evidence about calls before and after this time 
period, but Mr C didnt supply these.
In response to its questions, Mr C has focused on the evidence used by Admiral about the 
calls, which were from a screenshot on his phone rather than from his network provider. 
What I would say is that this information was supplied by Mr C to Admiral and in the absence 
of further information about the calls, its not unreasonable for Admiral to rely on it in its 
investigation. 
As I have said, its not this services role to assess the claim, only to explore whether Admiral 
has acted fairly. And in this case I think it has. There are inconsistencies in Mr C story that 
havent been explained to Admirals satisfaction. I think its investigation has been fair and 
reasonable, and therefore Admirals declinature of Mr Cs claim is also fair.
Ive also thought about Mr Cs complaints about delays during his claim. Having read the file 
I can see that Admiral encountered delays in obtaining the police evidence and has 
repeatedly asked Mr C for information it didnt receive. Its final response to him was sent in 
October 2022, and I dont think this timescale is unreasonable in the circumstances or that 
Admiral caused unnecessary delays. 
In later correspondence I can see Mr C has said hes not sure what has happened to the car 
and his personal belongings that were inside. He should contact Admiral and his finance 
company to find out more about this, but its not something I can consider here.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman