DRN-3816565
The complaint
Miss L complains that Beaufort Financial Planning Ltd (Beaufort) didnt change the risk 
profile of her investment portfolio as expected. Miss L is also unhappy about mistakes 
Beaufort later made when telling her about the performance of her investment.
What happened
Miss L benefitted from a trust set up by her mothers will. In 2019, Beaufort arranged the 
transfer of the trusts investment to Miss L. A meeting followed, where Miss Ls attitude to 
risk was discussed. This was graded as 6 on a scale of 10. The investment at that time 
reflected level 3 on the same risk scale. 
Beaufort have confirmed they didnt change the risk profile of the investment after the 
meeting. Theyve said that was because they wanted more information about other trusts 
Miss L was to benefit from before confirming their investment strategy for her. 
Weve been shown emails from 2019 and 2020 where Beaufort contacted the trustees for 
the other trusts seeking that information. Miss L was sent copies of the emails at the time.
Miss Ls complaint followed a mistake by Beaufort at a meeting in 2021. An adviser referred 
to her investments performance as if it was held at risk level 5. About three weeks later, the 
adviser emailed Miss L with the correct details for the risk level 3 investment.
Beaufort then made a further mistake a few months later. A mistyped 3 added £10,000 to 
the value of the investment. A later statement with the correct value prompted Miss L to raise 
the issue with Beaufort, and they explained their mistake. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ls complaint and partly upheld it. They felt it reasonable 
Beaufort hadnt changed the investments risk level in 2019. But they noted the errors in 
2021 had caused upset for Miss L. They suggested compensation be paid  initially £300 but 
later £450  and that Beaufort refund their fees since September 2019. 
Miss L didnt feel that did enough to resolve her complaint. She restated her dissatisfaction 
with Beaufort. And she explained thered been a further issue in 2022 with the information 
Beaufort had given her  this time about another trust she was to benefit from. 
With no agreement to resolve the complaint, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the remedy our investigator put forward is a reasonable way to 
resolve Miss Ls complaint. 
The correspondence from 2019 and 2020 between Beaufort and the trustees supports their 
reason for not changing the investments risk level. The further information they were 
seeking was relevant to decisions about Miss Ls investment. Miss L had plans to make 
large purchases in a relatively close period. If the money to do that was to come from her 
investment then a lower risk rating would be more suitable. 
I find that copying the emails they were sending to the trustees to Miss L did just enough to 
keep Miss L reasonably informed about what Beaufort were doing. 
With hindsight, an explicit update to Miss L explaining no changes had yet been made to the 
investments risk rating would have helped avoid the later confusion. But I can appreciate 
Beaufort might initially have expected the trustees to provide the information theyd asked for 
quite rapidly. So I can understand why they held off writing in detail until they had that 
information. 
The later correspondence confirms Beaufort accepted theyd made mistakes when giving 
Miss L details about her investment in 2021. Those mistakes were unreasonable, and 
shouldnt have happened. They cant now be undone, but something should be done to try to 
put any impact they had on Miss L right. 
Putting things right
Miss Ls told us the second mistake in 2021 led to her making an offer on a property that 
didnt reflect the money she actually had available to her. It sounds like that offer wasnt 
ultimately accepted, so theres no financial impact. But I can appreciate how the impact it 
could have had adds to Miss Ls upset about the matter. 
Ultimately, it looks to me that Miss Ls confidence in Beaufort has been completely 
undermined by the mistakes in 2021, and by her feeling that the risk level for her investment 
wasnt as it should be. Ive found Beaufort acted reasonably on the risk level point. But I 
agree with our investigator that some sort of compensation should be directed for the impact 
the 2021 mistakes had on Miss L. 
The 2022 issue Miss Ls mentioned speaks to that impact too. Any issue or question she has 
about Beauforts service going forward add to the narrative of her original complaint. 
Choosing a level of compensation that fits that impact isnt an exact science. But I have 
factored in Miss Ls explanation that as the investment here was part of her mothers legacy 
and ongoing support for her, the emotional impact is more acute. 
Balancing that  the mistakes here havent had the impact on the value of the investment 
that Miss L believes. The first mistake in 2021 was corrected in a relatively short space of 
time. And the second mistake hasnt caused any lasting expense or inconvenience either. 
So I find the proposed £450 compensation is the right figure for compensating the impact 
here. And the refund of Beauforts fees reflects that while some work has clearly been done 
over the years, its value has been undermined for Miss L by the mistakes made in 2021. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint about Beaufort Financial Planning Ltd. To put 
things right, they should refund their fees since September 2019 and pay Miss L £450 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman