DRN-3015651
The complaint
Mrs L says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs L bought the policy in 2000 over the phone, around two years after taking out her store 
card. The policy covered her card in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs L and AXA a provisional decision on 27 July 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of the time thats passed, there isnt still a recording of the call where Mrs L was 
sold PPI. But from what Ive seen of AXAs sales process from around the time, staff were 
instructed to make it clear that the policy was optional. And by the time of this sale, Mrs L 
had already had her store card for around two years, so she wouldve known she didnt have 
to take out PPI to get the card approved. Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales 
from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mrs L was misled into buying PPI here. So 
I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs L aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs L, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on AXA if they did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mrs L as possible, Ill assume 
they did. That would mean AXA had to check the policy was right for her  and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it probably was.
For example, it looks like Mrs L was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. Shes not told us about any specific work benefits or other 
protection she mightve had. In any case, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work 
benefits  and given her role at the time, its most likely the PPI wouldve offered her much 
more comprehensive cover. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs L in case she 
needed to claim.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs L about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, it doesnt look like Mrs L was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for her in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs L could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 August 2021. But neither Mrs L nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman