DRN-3123139
The complaint
Mr S complains Equifax Limited shared private information with a third party without his 
consent. 
What happened
In January 2021 a business (G) carried out a soft credit search on Mr S via Equifax. Equifax 
says G completed the credit search to carry out an identity check on Mr S. 
Mr S contacted Equifax and raised concerns that his private information was shared without 
consent. Equifax contacted G to ask about the search it completed but didnt receive a 
response. The search was deleted from Mr S credit file. 
Mr S told Equifax that due to the nature of his job he was concerned about the implications 
of sharing his private information with an unauthorised third party. Mr S asked what Equifax 
was doing to ensure his information wasnt shared again without his consent. Equifax has 
told Mr S he has the option of adding a password to his credit file. 
Equifax responded to Mr S complaint but didnt agree it had made any errors. Equifax said 
there are circumstances where the regulations surrounding data protection allow businesses 
to access someones credit file without their specific consent. Equifax confirmed it had 
shared Mr S name, date of birth, address and any other publicly available information with 
G. Equifax also provided details of other services that may be able to assist if Mr S was 
concerned about fraud. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Equifax had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service. Our role is to 
try and resolve complaints. We have no powers to punish or fine a business. And we cant 
tell a business to change the way it operates. I understand Mr S is concerned that Equifax 
has breached the Data Protection Act and that its actions have potentially placed his 
information at risk. Our focus is on whether Equifax made any errors and, if so, how those 
errors have impacted Mr S. I can award compensation to consumers where a business has 
made a mistake, but I cant tell it to change its processes or the way it works. 
Mr S complains that he didnt give direct permission for Equifax to share his information with 
G. But there are provisions under the rules governing how businesses handle information 
that allows credit reference agencies to proceed without obtaining direct consent. 
In this case, Equifax has forwarded a copy of its agreement with G to provide services, 
including access to credit files. The agreement allows G to carry out a soft credit search for 
the purpose of identification. Equifax says G completed a credit search to verify Mr S 
identity, which is in line with its agreement and the rules. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I 
dont agree Equifax acted unfairly when it provided the results of the soft credit search to G 
and shared his information. 
As our investigator has said, if Mr S is concerned that G accessed his credit file fraudulently 
he has the option of referring the matter to the Information Commissioners Office, the 
organisation that regulates how businesses handle information. In addition, Mr S has the 
option of asking G to explain why it carried out a credit search. I can see Mr S told our 
investigator he thought G had gone out of business. But I was able to find Gs information 
online and it appears to be an ongoing and active business.  
Mr S has told us that due to the nature of his job hes very concerned about private 
information being shared without his consent. Equifax can put a password in place to add an 
extra layer of security. But Mr S has raised concerns that may lead to credit applications 
being declined by lenders in the future. I appreciate there may be some inconvenience 
involved in order to add this additional layer of protection. I leave it to Mr S to decide whether 
the inconvenience caused is offset by the additional protection provided. But Im satisfied 
Equifax has given details of extra steps that can be taken to ensure Mr S information 
remains private and that its approach is fair. 
As I havent found Equifax made errors or treated Mr S unfairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman