DRN-1556190
complaint
Mr W and Ms H complain about BUPA Insurance Limiteds refusal to accept a claim for 
rehabilitation treatment under their private medical insurance policy. 
background
Ms H had hip replacement surgery that was authorised by BUPA. Following the surgery, she 
experienced numbness in her right leg. She remained in hospital for ten days, but was then 
transferred to a rehab clinic to help improve her mobility. Mr W and Ms H made a claim for 
the rehab treatment. 
BUPA turned down the rehab claim. It said the treatment wasnt covered as Ms H wasnt 
experiencing an acute condition that was overseen by a consultant. Mr W and Ms H 
complained about this. 
BUPA maintained its decision not to pay the claim. However, it accepted it had given 
contradictory information during the claim, and offered £150 compensation for this. Unhappy 
with BUPAs refusal to cover the rehab costs, Mr W and Ms H brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Ms Hs rehab 
treatment did fall within the policy terms. She recommended BUPA pay the claim (up to the 
policy limits), plus interest. 
BUPA didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed 
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy says:
Exclusion 9 Convalescence, rehabilitation and general nursing care
We do not pay for recognised facility accommodation if it is primarily used for any of the 
following purposes:
convalescence, rehabilitation, supervision or any purpose other than receiving 
eligible treatment

Exception: We pay for eligible treatment for rehabilitation in the following circumstances. By 
rehabilitation we mean treatment which is aimed at restoring health or mobility or to allow 
you to live an independent life, such as after a stroke or an accident. We will only pay in 
cases where the rehabilitation:is an integral part of in-patient treatment, and
starts within 42 days from and including the date you first receive that in-patient 
treatment, and
is part of a personalised programme involving at least two different medical 
therapies, and
takes place in a recognised facility, and
your consultant confirms to us that you are physically and mentally able to start the 
rehabilitation programme within the defined timescales.

When all the above criteria have been met we pay up to a maximum of 21 consecutive days 
rehabilitation.
Ive therefore looked at the evidence in order to decide whether Ms Hs rehab treatment falls 
under the above exception or not. 
Ms H had her hip replacement surgery on 2 March. This was carried out by Mr C (consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon). Ms H says Mr C advised her that shed need to stay in hospital for 
around three to four days after the surgery. Unfortunately, following the surgery, Ms H says 
she experienced numbness in her right leg. She received some physio whilst at the hospital, 
but her mobility was still poor. She was therefore transferred to the rehab clinic on 12 March. 
On 14 March, Mr C explained that Ms Hs mobility had been rather slow following her 
operation, and it was concluded she required further rehab as an in-patient. It was therefore 
recommended she attend the rehab clinic. 
Also on 14 March, a pre-admission form was completed by Ms L (director of nursing) at the 
rehab clinic. She said Ms H had been admitted for post-operative orthopaedic rehab, and 
she was experiencing post-operative pain. Ms L noted on the form that Ms H wanted to 
achieve improvement to her range of movement and paresthesia in her right leg, and was 
concerned about the slow returning of feeling to her right leg. She said Ms H would be 
having two types of rehab treatment each day. 
The relevant exception in the policy explains that BUPA will pay for eligible treatment for 
rehabilitation. The policy says that eligible treatment would need to be treatment of an acute 
condition. 
BUPA initially said that Ms H didnt have an acute condition. 
An acute condition is defined in the policy as a disease, illness or injury that is likely to 
respond quickly to treatment which aims to return you to the state of health you were in 
immediately before suffering the disease, illness or injury, or which leads to your full 
recovery.
Unfortunately, the evidence from Mr C isnt particularly detailed, and doesnt make reference 
to the numbness that Ms H says she experienced after her surgery. However, the pre-
admission form completed by Ms L did refer to the numbness that Ms H was experiencing in 
her right leg, and I note Ms L said Ms H was concerned about the slow returning of feeling to 
her leg.
Ive looked at what the NHS says about recovery times following hip replacement surgery. It 
says a patient will usually be in hospital for around three to five days, depending on the 
progress they make. I see Mr C requested an extension to Ms Hs hospital stay after the first five days, and told 
BUPA it wasnt safe to discharge Ms H as safe mobility was still being worked on by the 
physio team. BUPA accepted the hospital extension. Ms H remained as an in-patient at the 
hospital for ten days following her surgery.
Ms H was then transferred to the rehab clinic where she remained as an in-patient for 35 
days before being discharged. Mr and Ms H explain they were told by the rehab clinic that 
the cause of the numbness was due to the previous misalignment of a joint in Ms Hs hip 
resulting from a previous fall (which had led to her requiring the hip surgery). 
Taking all of this into account, it seems unlikely that Ms Hs numbness and problems with 
mobility were merely a normal consequence of the surgery she had, or that the rehab she 
required was simply post-operative therapy that was expected as part of a standard recovery 
plan. On balance, I think its reasonable to say that Ms H had an injury, and that she did 
therefore have an acute condition. 
BUPA appears to now acknowledge that Ms H had an acute condition, but says theres no 
clinical reason why she couldnt have had out-patient treatment to assist with her recovery. 
One of the circumstances thats required in order for the exception to apply is that the rehab 
needs to be an integral part of in-patient treatment. 
BUPA says this means the member would need rehabilitation whilst receiving active 
treatment that requires them to stay admitted as an in-patient. However, the policy doesnt 
say that the member should be receiving active treatment other than rehabilitation, only that 
the rehab would need to be an integral part of in-patient treatment. 
In-patient treatment is defined in the policy as eligible treatment that, for medical reasons, 
is received as an in-patient.
Ms H had her hip replacement surgery as an in-patient. She was then transferred directly to 
the rehab clinic as Mr C said that Ms H needed further rehab as an in-patient. I also 
understand that Ms H remained under Mr Cs care until she had been discharged from the 
rehab clinic. 
BUPA says the rehab clinic told it that Ms H had been booked there before her hip operation 
had taken place. Ms H strongly denies this, and says shed never heard of the clinic until her 
operation had taken place and she had problems with her mobility. BUPA hasnt been able 
to provide a copy of this call recording, and I havent seen any other evidence to suggest 
that Ms H had booked the rehab before even having her operation. 
If Ms H hadnt needed the in-patient rehab for medical reasons, and had needed it for social 
reasons for example, I would have expected Mr C to have discharged her after shed left the 
hospital. But instead I understand she remained under his clinical care whilst receiving the 
rehabilitation. Im therefore inclined to agree with our investigator that the rehab likely did 
need to take place on an in-patient basis. 
I see that Ms Hs rehab treatment met the remaining circumstances that needed to be 
present in order for the exception to apply. Consequently, I think BUPA should accept the 
claim for rehab treatment, in line with the policy limits. 
BUPA accepts it provided Mr W and Ms H with contradictory information when they made 
their claim. It has apologised and paid them £150 compensation for this. I think that was 
reasonable. my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay the 
claim, in accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions. Interest should be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoice was paid to the date of 
settlement. 
If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W and Ms H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W 
and Ms H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
BUPA should also pay £150 compensation, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman