DRN-3416517
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about the sale of a legal expenses insurance policy by Avantia 
Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect (Homeprotect).
Theyre also unhappy with information they say Homeprotect gave them about the extent of 
their LEI cover.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs T took out legal expenses insurance through an internet based search 
engine. Homeprotect say the cover was sold on a non advised basis so it was for Mr and 
Mrs T to satisfy themselves the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
The policy renewed each year. In 2020 Mr and Mrs T made a claim on their policy for cover 
to pursue a claim against a builder who theyd contracted to construct an extension and 
balcony to their property. This was following concerns expressed by a building inspector 
about the standard of the work.
The underwriter of the policy considered the claim and declined it. They said that whilst the 
policy covered property and contract disputes, it excluded claims arising from altering or 
constructing buildings for Mr and Mrs Ts use. 
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with this. They said theyd been led to believe they had cover in 
place for disputes like the one they were engaged in and that theyd obtained a Court 
complaint expert at their own cost on reliance of this. They also raised another complaint 
against the underwriter of the policy which was considered separately by an investigator at 
this Service.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He concluded that the information Homeprotect 
had provided on renewal of the policy in 2019 was reasonable. He also said that it was most 
likely an advisor at Homeprotect  told Mr and Mrs T they had cover in place for the sort of 
claim they were making, but that Mr and Mrs T didnt act to their detriment in obtaining an 
expert report because the report would most likely have been required for his claim against 
the builder in due course. He did however recognise that the misinformation Homeprotect 
most likely gave Mr and Mrs T caused them confusion and stopped them from questioning 
whether they did in fact have cover in place when they otherwise might have made further 
enquiries. Because of this he said Homeprotect should pay Mr and Mrs T £100 to 
compensate them for this.
Mr and Mrs T dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. In particular 
theyve said:
Homeprotect didnt provide them with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
extent of the cover they were buying;
That the advice given by Homeprotect about cover extending to the particular claim they 
were making meant they acted to their financial detriment by obtaining a Court complaint 
experts report when they would otherwise have sought to rely on the building inspectors 
evidence when making any claims against the builder.
Upon reviewing the matter, I asked the parties a number of questions. I asked Homeprotect 
for confirmation of the policy years Mr and Mrs T had purchased legal expenses insurance 
from them as well as whether the exclusion applicable to their claim was present in each of 
those policy years. I also asked whether Homeprotect agree that the policy document 
applicable to the 2019 policy was only available through a link to their website.
I asked Mr and Mrs T about the type of action they took on their legal claim since they 
obtained a Court complaint experts report. I noted theyd instructed a barrister and asked 
whether the letter before action that had been drafted by her/him had been sent. In addition, 
I asked whether any advice had been taken about the strength of their claim from the 
barrister and whether the expert report or references to the content of it had been disclosed 
to the other party. And I asked what Mr and Mrs T would have done had it been clear to 
them that their policy didnt cover altering or constructing buildings for their use and if they 
would have done something else, why this would have been.
Both parties have responded. Homeprotect has said that Mr and Mrs T took out the policy in 
2016 and renewed it each year. The exclusion applicable to their claim was present in each 
policy they purchased. Homeprotect have told us that the full policy document was available 
to Mr and Mrs T online through the link they provided them with. In the alternative, they said 
Mr and Mrs T could have contacted their customer service team to request a hard or 
electronic copy.
Mr and Mrs T have also responded. Theyve made various submissions in response to my 
questions, including that they instructed a direct access barrister who amended a letter 
before action they had drafted with a view to keeping costs down. The letter has now been 
sent to their builder together with the experts report. They are currently considering pursuing 
a small claim against the builder. 
Mr and Mrs T also made some comments about the surveyors report. They said the 
barrister advised them it wasnt suitable for use against the builder and that theyd need 
further reports from a specialist structural engineer and/or an architect so they were wrongly 
advised to get this type of report. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs T said the advice they received was clear- that they were covered for 
this dispute but that they had to show they had reasonable prospects of success so they 
commissioned a report. They wouldnt have done so if they thought they werent covered. 
Their circumstances were such that they were relieved when they were told they had cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
The starting point is how the policy was sold. The initial policy was sold through the internet 
in 2016 and renewed thereafter. I havent seen the screens Mr and Mrs T were presented 
with when they took out the insurance so I cant be sure what information was presented to 
them at that point. I understand the renewal documents in at least the policy year preceding 
their claim were sent to them by post. The letter included a policy schedule which referenced 
the legal expenses insurance cover details appearing in an additional cover policy booklet. It 
also included a document confirming that family legal protection was included together with a summary of that cover. There was no reference to the exclusion relied upon by Mr and Mrs 
T's insurer to turn down the claim. I havent seen a copy of the policy booklet and given what 
Homeprotect have said it sounds like the full policy terms were made available to Mr and 
Mrs T by referring them to a link on Homeprotects website. This may well have been the 
case when Mr and Mrs T initially took out the insurance in 2016.
I dont think the exclusion applicable to Mr and Mrs Ts claim was unusual or particularly 
significant, such that it needed to be drawn to their attention by Homeprotect. This is quite a 
common policy exclusion for property and contract claims that fall within legal expenses 
insurance cover. It could be considered significant however if it tended to affect the decision 
of customers generally to buy it. Ive thought carefully about this in relation to the specific 
type of policy Mr and Mrs T took out. The cover Mr and Mrs T purchased was a low cost add 
on to their home insurance policy. Given the policy wasnt sold on a standalone basis I think 
its unlikely that the exclusion would cause customers to decide not to take it out and instead 
seek legal expenses insurance elsewhere. Because of this, I dont think the exclusion 
needed to be drawn to Mr and Mrs Ts attention when taking out cover.
But Homeprotect did need to give them clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
cover when taking it out. The investigator came to the conclusion that the information Mr and 
Mrs T received about the policy was reasonable. I dont know what information was given to 
Mr and Mrs T about the policy when they initially took it out. If it was a link to the policy terms 
then I agree that was likely to be reasonable in the context of the sale- thats because it was 
an internet sale in 2016. They could have clicked on that link when buying the policy to 
satisfy themselves of the levels of cover available. In the 2019 renewal, the documents were 
sent by post. I dont think referring policyholders to a link which they would then need to look 
at on the internet amounts to giving clear, fair and misleading information. But I dont think 
that matters much in the context of this complaint. Thats because I also need to be satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs T would have done something differently had they known the policy 
exclusion existed at the time of sale in order to determine that the policy was mis-sold. And 
Im not satisfied they would have.
The submissions Mr and Mrs T have made centre more on what they would have done 
differently had they not been told they had cover. Essentially, they say that the legal helpline 
for the underwriter led them to believe this was the case and this seemed to be implied by 
Homeprotect when they spoke with them. I appreciate their stance on this and in particular 
their submissions, so like the investigator, I think its likely that Homeprotect werent 
particularly clear later about what they were covered for when they were contacted about the 
claim. Had they been, I think it might have caused Mr and Mrs T to question whether they 
should obtain an experts report. Because of this I agree that Homeprotect should pay Mr 
and Mrs T £100 in compensation for contributing to any misinformation they might have 
received from the underwriters legal helpline. 
But I dont think that Homeprotect need to do anything more than this because Mr and Mrs T 
havent made any persuasive submissions that they would have sought cover elsewhere had 
they known during the sale and subsequent renewal of the policy that an exclusion for 
disputes like the one they were claiming for existed. Mr and Mrs Ts submission that they felt 
relieved when it was suggested to them they had cover confirms this. Thats because it 
suggests that they werent specifically looking to buy cover that didnt contain this exclusion 
when they took the policy out. Rather they were relieved that they thought theyd purchased 
it but not that they actually knew whether theyd taken out that kind of policy or would have 
looked to from the outset. Because of this, I cant agree that the policy was mis-sold.
I know Mr and Mrs T are looking to recover the cost of the expert report they funded but 
thats not something Ill be asking Homeprotect to do. Thats because I havent seen 
anything that supports that Homeprotect asked them to obtain this report nor confirmed that they should. So whether or not it was useful to them is largely academic save to say that 
they did use the report when sending over the letter before action to the builder so it was 
utilised for this purpose whether or not they intended for it to be from the outset.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T but I hope Ive provided them with 
a thorough explanation of why I think the outcome Ive reached is correct.
Putting things right
Homeprotect should pay Mr and Mrs T £100 for the likely confusion they caused in 
suggesting they had cover for the sort of claim they were making after they purchased the 
policy.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect 
and direct them to comply with my award of fair compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman