DRN-3580622
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TP) to
transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a
personal pension. He feels he has lost out as a result.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11
December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr P contacted another adviser in 2017 for advice on his pension. As they couldnt provide
DB transfer advice they introduced him to TP. 
Mr P completed a fact find and an attitude to risk questionnaire. The following was recorded 
for Mr P. 
He was 35, in good health and married with a small child. He had an annual salary of 
£24,500 plus an additional and his wife earned £20,600 per year. Their combined net 
income was £3,370 per month and their typical expenditure was around £1,350 per month.
Mr and Mrs P owned a house valued at around £280,000 with an outstanding repayment 
mortgage of £178,000. They had savings of £1,700 which they said would increase when 
home improvements had finished. They had outstanding loans of £8,000 which were 
expected to be paid off with a recent inheritance of £15,000. They also had joint level term 
life cover to pay off the mortgage if one of them died. 
In addition to his BSPS pension with pensionable service of 13 years and seven months and 
a transfer value of around £208,000, Mr P had his employers newly established defined 
contribution (DC) pension which was valued at £3,671.33 and was receiving combined 
employee and employer contributions of 16% per year. His wife had her own DB pension 
with 11 years of service which was estimated to give her £4,000 per year from age 60. Both 
expected to receive full state pension at age 68 of £8,230 per year. 
It was recorded both Mr and Mrs P planned to retire at age 60. Mrs P was three year 
younger than her husband. And their expenditure was expected to be £15,000 per year. If Mr 
P predeceased his wife, she would need £7,000 per year pre-retirement and £12,000 post-
retirement to cover her outgoings.
Mr Ps attitude to risk was recorded as him being a capital growth investor. This was 
described as:
The Capital Growth investor may be willing to accept high risk and chance of loss in order to 
achieve higher returns on his or her investment. Significant losses over an extended period 
may prompt the Capital Growth Investor to shift to a less risky investment. 
With regard to his capacity for loss the suitability report Mr P confirmed that any loss of 
capital would not impact on your standard of living and/or your objectives. Your income 
shortfall could be met by your [DC] pension based on your expected contributions, and/or 
any savings/investments you accrue over the next 25 years to your retirement. 
Mr Ps objectives in the suitability report on 27 November 2017 were recorded as:
You would like to have the flexibility to access your pension when you wish rather than 
being dictated to by a fixed scheme income and be able to retire prior to the British Steel 
Pension Scheme retirement age without penalty. You also want to ensure that your wife and 
son can receive the maximum possible benefit from your pension in the future. 
The reasons for recommending the transfer rather than opting for the PPF or BSPS2 were 
essentially that the DB options didnt provide enough flexibility, the critical yields were 
achievable and Mr P could possibly outperform the DB scheme if he transferred now. TP 
also said death benefits were more attractive and the transfer value had been enhanced and 
was likely higher than it would be if he ever wanted to transfer from BSPS2 in future.
Mr P, through his representative, complained in 2019 about the suitability of the transfer
advice. After TP rejected his complaint, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator thought the advice TP had given Mr P was unsuitable and asked them to
compensate Mr P for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension.
TP disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption when advising on a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is
unsuitable. TP should have only considered a transfer to be suitable if they could clearly
demonstrate, on contemporaneous evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests
(COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied this is the
case here. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similarrates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
TP prepared a transfer analysis which showed that the average investment return required
in the new pension to match the BSPS2 benefits at age 65 (critical yield) was quoted as
4.32% per year if Mr Ps benefits in retirement were taken as a lump sum plus a reduced
Pension and 4.62% if he took benefits at age 60. The critical yields to match the benefits 
available in the PPF at age 65 and 60 taken in the same form were 4.27% and 4.77% 
respectively.
The closest discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by the
Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. It was 4.6% per year
for 25 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. I've
taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate.
The investigator pointed out that the transfer analysis didnt take into account ongoing 
adviser charges. TP knew ongoing advice would be provided by the introducer firm at 0.5% 
so these critical yields would have been at least 0.5% higher than stated. However, even if I 
consider higher critical yields at age 60 of 5.12% in BSPS2 or 5.27% in the PPF, I think there 
was a reasonable chance they were achievable, given Mr P wanted to take a bit more risk 
with his investments. 
I appreciate there have been discussions about whether Mr Ps attitude to risk was properly 
established. Based on Mr Ps answers in the risk questionnaire he was given he likely was 
prepared to take some investment risk. And as he was still so many years from retirement I 
think he had some capacity for loss. 
When he did another risk assessment with the introducer firm a year later his answers in the 
risk questionnaire suggested he was a high risk investor, however after further discussions 
with the adviser it became clear Mr P didnt really answer the questions with his pension in 
mind. When further discussed, a balanced investment approach was agreed as Mr P 
realised that large capital losses would seriously impact his financial security. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr P likely had at least a balanced attitude to investment risk, possibly 
slightly above. Im not sure whether it was much more than this. Looking at TPs 
questionnaire, he said he was prepared to accept moderate risks and it was clear that he 
wouldnt be overly concerned with fluctuations in his investments. However when he was 
asked to choose certain portfolios which showed different gains and losses, he picked the 
ones in the middle.
I also note that the questionnaire was very much geared towards investment risk up to 
retirement. The questions related to how Mr P would feel about fluctuations in the next two 
years or assuming you still have ten years until you make withdrawals. So I cant see that 
his attitude to transfer risk -which is different to attitude to investment risk- was established. 
For example how he would feel if benefits in retirement suddenly reduced or that he needed 
to manage his investments (or pay for this service), compared to guaranteed benefits.
Taking this aside for the moment, I think it was possible for Mr P to match his DB benefits 
outside the scheme. But there was still a risk he wouldnt, particularly if he changed his risk 
appetite over the many years to retirement. And I think the chances he could significantly 
improve on his benefits were a lot less likely. As TP has stressed in many complaints and I agree, matching the critical yield isnt the only 
consideration when considering whether a transfer is in a consumers best interest.
So Ive considered Mr Ps circumstances and recorded objectives to see whether a transfer
was in his best interest. However, Im not persuaded it was. Ill explain why.
Early retirement and flexibility
I dont doubt that Mr P found the thought of retiring early attractive and so I think TP was 
right to consider how and if this was possible. I also appreciate that being so far away from 
retirement age Mr P likely wanted to keep the option open to take flexible benefits in 
retirement. 
However, Mr P had another pension with generous employer contributions and at least 25 
years to build up further pension provisions. He could have accessed this pension (or other 
future ones) flexibly when he chose to retire. And he also could have taken early retirement 
from BSPS2. So in fact keeping the DB benefits would have given him a risk-free 
guaranteed income and he could still have flexible benefits through his other pension 
provision. Based on what Ive seen his and his wifes expected income requirements in 
retirement could have also been met if he chose BSPS2 or the PPF. He didnt need, in my 
view, to transfer his DB benefits for flexibility when he could have achieved this through his 
other pensions.
TP say Mr P didnt need a fixed guaranteed income. However, in my view most people value 
the security and peace of mind of a guaranteed income. And as explained above, he still had 
the flexibility to retire early and use benefits flexibly through his DC arrangement.
Death benefits
Mr P said he preferred passing on a lump sum to his family. Death benefits are an emotive 
subject and of course when asked most people would like their loved ones to be taken care 
of when they die. Im sure that the idea of leaving a large sum to his wife and child in the 
event of his death sounded attractive.
However, the DB scheme provided valuable guarantees. Mr Ps wife would have received a 
guaranteed spouses pension for life which would be increasing in payment and would have 
been valuable if Mr P predeceased her as well as a dependants pension for children. Mr P 
had generous death in service cover if he died before retirement and he had additional life 
cover of £180,000. His family also would have received the value of his money purchase 
pension too if he died. So his family would have had guaranteed and flexible benefits if he 
died.
In any event, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here
was to advise Mr P about what was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think different death benefits
justified a transfer.
Time to retirement and enhanced transfer value
Mr P was only 35 when he asked for advice. TP acknowledged that its generally accepted 
that transferring out of a DB scheme under the age of 50 would usually not be suitable. The 
regulator more recently referred to the scenario of younger consumer in Finalised Guidance 
21/3 (which did not represent new rules). It states:If a client is some way from retirement and has no clear idea of what they want from it, it may
not be possible to advise them on a transfer, until they are closer to retirement. You should 
be asking the question why transfer now? when your clients retirement plans are unclear.
Wanting to take advantage of a high transfer value is not generally a good reason on its own 
to transfer.
I think this applies to Mr P. As I said above I think he was interested in early retirement and 
taking benefits flexibly, however given that he was 25-30 years away from retirement, I think 
its fair to say that these retirement objectives were not certain and could of course change.  
And giving up his guaranteed benefits was an irreversible action. In my view there was no 
obvious reason for Mr P to transfer in 2017.
TPs argument here is that the establishment of BSPS2 was still not guaranteed and even if 
Mr P chose BSPS2 he might have ended up in the PPF after all. And then a transfer at a 
later date, closer to retirement, would not have been possible. I do think it was more likely 
than not at the time BSPS2 would go ahead. However, I appreciate there was still a risk of 
Mr P ending up in the PPF and not being able to transfer in future.
However, overall and as set out above, I think a guaranteed income from the PPF would 
have still been valuable and Mr P could have still retired early and have flexible benefits 
through his other pension. So I dont think this scenario had to be avoided at all cost.
Like the regulator, I also dont see that potentially lower transfer values from BSPS2 in many 
years time were reason enough to transfer immediately. 
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr P approached TP at a time when BSPS members were concerned about their pensions.
Lots of his colleagues at the time would have been transferring out of the scheme and he
likely was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. So I think its quite possible that Mr
P came to TP leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was TPs obligation to
give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest. I agree with TP 
that out of the PPF and BSPS2 options, the BSPS2 option was better suited to Mr P.
Mr P should have been advised, in my view, to move to BSPS2. TP also should have 
explained that even if BSPS2 failed and Mr P was moved to the PPF, the benefits provided 
would still be very valuable. And if TP had explained properly why not transferring his DB 
benefits was in his best interest I have no reason to believe he wouldnt have listened to the
adviser.
Summary
Overall, Im not persuaded based on the contemporaneous evidence provided that the
advice given to Mr P was in his best interest. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk free and
increasing income that was extremely valuable. He possibly could have matched his benefits 
in the DB scheme. However, I think he could have comfortably achieved his objectives 
without taking the risks associated with the transfer. He had many years to build up other 
pension provisions which could provide him flexibility and lump sum death benefits if he 
wanted them when he came to retire. And there was a good chance if he chose BSPS2 that 
he could still transfer his benefits nearer to retirement if he still thought this was required.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the poor advice he was given. I consider hewould have selected to move to BSPS2. So calculations should be made on this
assumption.
TP argues that if a loss is calculated, redress should take form of a deferred annuity.
However, the regulators guidance sets out how redress should be paid and I see no reason
to depart from this guidance.
During the course of the complaint TP engaged a firm to provide a redress calculation for Mr 
P to establish how much he had lost out by transferring which first showed no loss however 
didnt make allowances for ongoing adviser charges. A new calculation was done In 
February 2021 incorporating ongoing adviser charges of 0.5% which led to the loss of a few 
thousand pounds, however was still based on Mr Ps pension value as at 1 October 2020 
which was out of date. 
A new calculation is required using the most current assumptions. I note there were 
discussions about what ongoing adviser charges should be factored in. Mr P was paying 
0.85% the last time we checked. I think its fair and reasonable to use Mr Ps current ongoing 
charges for the calculations.
TP must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
TP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition TP should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date
TP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TP
to pay Mr P.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth
Management LLP to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above,
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require True
Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth
Management LLP. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr
P can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman