DRN-3698448
The complaint
Mr R complains Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) placed a default on his credit 
file in relation to his credit card account, despite having agreed a Covid payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr R says he applied for a three-month Covid payment holiday in April 2020 and this was 
approved by Creation. Mr R says he then received a notification in June 2020 from Creation 
asking for a payment to his account. Mr R says he telephoned Creation to query this given 
he was given a Covid payment holiday until July 2020, but was told by a member of 
Creations team it had made a mistake and he wasnt entitled to a Covid payment holiday, as 
he was already on a payment plan with them. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this and asked for a complaint to be registered, which Mr R says 
Creation failed to do. Mr R says Creation have unfairly placed a default on his credit file 
which has damaged his credit rating and his ability to obtain finance elsewhere. 
Mr R wants Creation to remove the default from his credit file and pay him compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Creation says it agrees it shouldnt have offered the Covid payment holiday, but it apologised 
for doing so and corrected this mistake as soon as it was able to do so. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Creations response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Rs complaint. The 
investigator felt given Creation hadnt informed Mr R until June 2020 of its mistake, it should 
honour the payment break it had previously agreed. The investigator says Creation should 
now remove the default on Mr Rs credit file if the outstanding balance has been paid off. 
The investigator says if Mr R hasnt paid off the balance and it is not possible for Creation to 
reinstate the account, then Mr R should come to an arrangement with Creation to pay off the 
outstanding balance and once it has been, then the default can be removed.
Mr R wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint but with a slightly different outcome.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr R to learn that a Covid payment plan 
he had agreed with Creation wasnt to be put in place. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if Creation acted fairly when it retracted its earlier agreed Covid payment plan with 
Mr R and marked a default on his credit file. 
The first thing to say here is Creation have already agreed with Mr R that it was at fault when 
it originally informed him a three-month Covid payment plan could be put in place in April 
2020 and have apologised for that. That said, its fair to say Mr R wouldnt have been entitled 
to a Covid payment plan, as under the guidance provided by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) that didnt extend to consumers who were already in an agreed payment holiday/plan 
prior to April 2020 and that was the case here. 
Where I do have an issue is while Creation have apologised for that mistake, it hasnt fully 
explained to Mr R or this service what other arrangements it could have offered at that time, 
rather than simply defaulting Mr Rs account In May 2020. 
Its fair to say from April 2020 until June 2020, when Mr R received an arrears notification 
from Creation, he was under the impression a three-month Covid payment holiday was in 
place. I can see that Mr R telephoned Creation in June 2020 to query this notification with 
them, and its at this point where there was an opportunity for both parties to put a suitable 
arrangement in place. So, while Creation had correctly informed Mr R he wasnt entitled to a 
Covid payment holiday, I am satisfied the appropriate course of action, was for Creation to 
have agreed a suitable payment plan to meet Mr Rs current personal circumstances at that 
time. 
So while I accept that it wasnt appropriate for a three-month Covid payment holiday to be 
put in place, as Mr R insisted, if a suitable plan had been put in place instead, I am satisfied 
in all likelihood a default could have been avoided here.  
With that in mind, a sensible compromise would be for the default marker to be removed and 
replaced with a payment arrangement marker instead. This service has on more than one 
occasion asked for further information from Creation and for it to clearly identify any 
outstanding arrears on Mr Rs account, but this has not been forthcoming, other than copies 
of more recent credit card statements, which do not seem to cover the period when the 
default was first marked.
While Mr R feels his ability to obtain credit elsewhere has been affected by the default 
marker, its worth bearing in mind his credit file had already been marked with missed 
payments and a payment arrangement prior to April 2020, so I cant say the default marker 
would have been the sole reason why he would be unable to obtain credit facilities 
elsewhere.
So, what I propose here is, as I mentioned before, the default marker is to be replaced with a 
payment arrangement marker from April 2020, and both parties should now agree a suitable 
payment plan going forward. 
Mr R should bear in mind that its his responsibility to ensure any payment plan agreed, is 
adhered to going forward to avoid missed payments or a default being registered in the 
future. 
Mr R responded to my provisional decision, but Ive heard nothing further from Creation, so 
the case has been referred back to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr R and Creation until 12 September 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Creation have provided some additional information concerning the arrears letters it sent to 
Mr R, but havent commented specifically to my provisional decision, despite the deadline to 
my provisional decision being extended. Mr R has told this service he is no longer in arrears 
with Creation, which seems to conflict with the most recent communication we have had 
from Creation. Additionally, Mr R has questioned why no compensation has been awarded 
to him. 
Regarding the arrears position, given that I havent been provided with clear evidence from 
either party exactly what the arrears position is and in order to come to a reasonable 
decision here, given the modest sum of less than £15 being referred to by Creation as 
arrears, under the circumstances I feel these should be treated as simply part of the 
outstanding debt and not an arrears sum.
That said, although Mr R doesnt feel a payment plan is now appropriate as hes making the 
minimum payments each month, he should ensure these are made on time going forward, to 
avoid any issues in the future.
Having said that, the main body of my decision should remain and I see no reason to change 
what I said in my provisional decision, in that the default marker should be removed and 
replaced with a payment arrangement marker from April 2020 to date. I say this because if 
an agreement had been made with Creation at that time, it would have been recorded as a 
payment arrangement on Mr Rs credit file.
As far as compensation is concerned, I am satisfied the amendments to Mr Rs credit file as 
described and the removal of any arrears currently showing is sufficient here. Its fair to say 
Mr R wasnt entitled to a Covid payment holiday and was told that, albeit after the event as 
described in my provisional decision, and this decision was to reflect a reasonable 
compromise. 
Mr R and Creation will be disappointed with my decision, but I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Creation Financial Services Limited to remove the default marker from Mr Rs credit 
file and replace it with a payment arrangement marker from April 2020 to date. 
The modest current arrears Creation refer to of £14.81, if still outstanding, should now be 
absorbed as part of the current outstanding debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Creation Financial Services Limited to remove the default marker from Mr Rs credit 
file and replace it with a payment arrangement marker from April 2020 to date. The modest 
current arrears Creation refer to of £14.81, if still outstanding, should now be absorbed as 
part of the current outstanding debt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman