DRN-3916859
The complaint
Mrs B complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
buildings insurance policy following a storm.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs B holds a buildings insurance policy with UKI. After what she described as a storm in 
January 2021, her property was damaged, so, she made a claim to UKI in October 2022.
UKI declined the claim. It said the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage, general wear 
and tear was.
Mrs B complained to UKI, but it didnt change its stance, so, she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKIs decision to 
decline the claim, on the basis that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage was 
reasonable.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs policy covers her for damage caused by a storm. In order to assess the 
claim, I need to look at three things.
oWere there storm conditions in line with the policy definition (if there is one) at 
the time of the claim?
oIs the damage being claimed for consistent with damage caused by a storm?
oIs the storm the main cause of the damage?
Theres no dispute here that there were storm conditions around the time of the 
claim.
What is in dispute is whether the damage was consistent with a storm and whether 
the storm was the main cause of the damage. UKI says it isnt, Mrs B, 
understandably, thinks it is.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, theres more to support UKIs position here. Ive 
seen a report carried out which states the damage was caused by a natural 
breakdown of material. UKI have said this points to the damage not being caused by 
a one-off event like a storm. Its said this points to gradual deterioration. Im satisfied 
thats reasonable.
Mrs B has been informed that UKI will consider any evidence she can provide to 
support the damage was likely caused by the storm, but neither it, nor we, have been 
provided with anything further.
Therefore, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied UKIs decline of Mrs Bs 
claim was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman