DRN-1322145
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that his account with Studio Retail Limited hasnt been closed when he 
requested it.
What happened
Mr R held a credit account with Studio which he requested to close. Studio advised Mr R that 
it couldnt close it until the outstanding balance had been cleared.
Mr r checked his transactions. He says the statement he received in May 2019 showed a 
clear opening balance and that he received three invoices for goods hed ordered totalling 
£89.87 so he sent a cheque for this amount to Studio and stated that it was in full and final 
settlement.
When Mr R received his next statement, it showed an outstanding balance. Mr R disputed 
this, but Studio said the balance was correct. It also said that because Mr R hadnt made the 
minimum payment, a late payment fee had been applied to his account.
Mr R wasnt happy with Studios response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She reviewed the account and didnt think 
Studio had made a mistake in the amount it had asked Mr R to pay.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that Studio hadnt prepared his statements properly and had often 
delivered goods without an advice note. He said hed marked his cheque in full and final 
settlement and said that Studio had accepted it as such and should have closed his 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Rs statements. Based on what Ive seen, the statements are subject to a 
cut off point each month. This means that any items ordered after the cut off date will appear 
on the following months statement.
I can see that Mr Rs cheque payment was processed on 28 May 2019. I can also see that 
there is an outstanding balance on the June 2019 statement.
I havent seen anything to suggest that the June statement balance was incorrect. I 
appreciate that Mr R has expressed dissatisfaction with the way in which the statements 
were prepared but I cant see that a mistake has been made. Mr R hasnt said that he didnt 
receive the items which were charged on the June statement, so I dont think I can say that 
Studio has made an error or acted unfairly by asking Mr R to pay the balance on the 
account.
I can see that Mr R  hasnt made a payment since he sent his cheque in May 2019. The 
terms and conditions of the account require Mr R to make a minimum payment each month. 
They also allow Studio to apply a late payment fee if no payment is made. I dont think 
Studio has done anything wrong by applying the late fees because this in is line with the 
terms and conditions.
Ive thought about Mr Rs comments regarding in full and final settlement. In considering a 
complaint such as this, I need to consider whether Studio has acted fairly and reasonably. I 
take the relevant law into account but its worth pointing out that this service offers an 
informal alternative to the courts. In this case, although Mr R says that Studio accepted the 
cheque in full settlement, I havent seen anything  to suggest that Studio accepted the 
payment on the terms offered. I dont think its fair to say that silence constitutes acceptance. 
Further, by issuing a statement the following month seeking the outstanding balance, I think 
Studio made it clear that it required payment of the balance and negated any suggestion that 
it had accepted the settlement offer.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Studio has made a mistake in 
calculating the balance due on the account. And I cant say Studio acted unreasonably in 
asking Mr R to clear the balance before it would close the account. I think the late payments 
fees have been fairly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman