DRN-2409674
The complaint
Mr F complains that poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
prevented him from being able to make his scheduled monthly credit card payments. This 
resulted in missed payments being recorded on his credit file.   
What happened
In March and April 2020, Mr F says he was prevented from making his monthly credit card 
payments as Barclaycards automated system wasnt working and the holding times on the 
telephone lines were several hours long.
And, when he was able to speak with a Barclaycard representative to discuss clearing the 
arrears on the account, he was told that his credit file would be unaffected if he made the 
payments the following month. 
But he later found that the missed payments were recorded on his credit file. So, Mr F raised 
a complaint with Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard acknowledged it had been wrong to tell Mr F that his credit file would be 
unaffected. It apologised for providing wrong information and paid £100 compensation. But it 
did not agree to remove the missed payment information on Mr Fs credit file. It said this was 
an accurate reflection of how Mr Fs account had been managed.
Unhappy with the outcome Mr F brought the complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She didnt recommend that Barclaycard should take any further 
action. She acknowledged that, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdown,   
Mr F would have experienced some difficulties in making his repayments using his preferred 
methods. But she was satisfied that Barclaycard offered a range of alternative payment 
methods that Mr F could have used to make his payments on time. So, she said that the 
information recorded on Mr Fs credit file was an accurate reflection of what had happened. 
She also felt that £100 compensation Barclaycard had made, in recognition of the wrong 
information it had provided to Mr F, was fair.
Mr F didnt accept this outcome. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I appreciate 
Mr F will be disappointed with this, so Ill explain why.
Call waiting times
Wider circumstances are relevant to this case. In March 2020, a pandemic was declared 
across the world. The associated lockdown in the UK was announced at very short notice 
and all businesses had to quickly adapt. Here, Barclaycard has told us that its call centres in 
India had to close and UK staff  now also having to work from home, had to be redeployed 
from other areas of its business to take calls. 
In addition, the regulator of the financial services industry, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), published statements setting out its expectations of banks and building societies. 
They were expected to keep branches open where possible to support their customers, but 
also to take precautions to keep staff and customers safe. The FCA urged customers to use 
other means of doing their banking where possible. And Ive taken all of this into account.
These were unprecedented times for everyone. So, I dont think that longer call waiting times 
or reduced service hours being offered in the weeks following the implementation of the 
lockdown was unreasonable if there were alternative ways for customers to make contact. 
Barclaycard has accepted that the pandemic meant that call waiting times were longer than 
they would have been in normal circumstances. But it says the automated answering service 
provided information directing customers to its website and the alternative methods of 
banking available  in this case, online banking and the myBarclaycard mobile app. But Mr F 
has said the automated service wasnt working when he tried to use it. 
I cant say for sure if the automated service was not working when Mr F tried to use it, but I 
have no reason to doubt what he says. However, Im aware that Mr Fs regular statements 
also set out a range of alternative methods for making payments to his account.    
And Barclaycard has provided information to show that Mr F is registered to use the 
myBarclaycard app  and I can see that he has since used this service. So, while its 
disappointing that call waiting times were longer than expected  and, its possible that the 
automated service wasnt working when Mr F tried to use it, Im persuaded that Mr F was 
able to make his credit card payments by an alternative method. So, I dont think 
Barclaycard was at fault here.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman