DRN-4399609
The complaint
Mr R complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) continued to charge
him for a motor insurance policy hed cancelled.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr R says he contacted One Call to change the motorbike insured on his
policy. The cost to do so was too high. Mr R says he told One Call to cancel his policy. In
January 2023 he realised monthly premiums were still being collected. He complained and
was offered £30 as a goodwill gesture. But Mr R wants the additional premiums he paid to
be refunded.
In its final complaint response One Call says it spoke to Mr R via webchat in April 2022. It
says its agent confirmed the cost of new cover would be around £11,000. Mr R said he
would review alternative quotes and contact it back, should he wish to go ahead. One Call
says Mr R didnt contact it again until January 2023, when he received renewal information.
One Call says Mr R didnt mention having sold his motorbike, or that hed declared a
Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN). It says he didnt cancel the policy, and this is not
something it could presume as Mr Rs insurance broker. One Call says its offer of £30 as a
goodwill gesture was fair.
Mr R disagreed and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint.
He says One Call should provide a pro-rata refund of the premiums paid from the date of the
webchat on 16 April 2022. He though Mr R had agreed to cancel the policy during the chat.
Our investigator noted Mr R declared his motorbike SORN and this was later sold. He didnt
think he couldve benefitted from the policy, which hed said he didnt want.
One Call disagreed with this outcome. It didnt think it was clear from the webchat that Mr R
had instructed his policy to be cancelled. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Ive read the webchat transcripts One Call provided. This shows there were two
conversations. One took place around 11am on 16 April 2022. The second webchat was on
the same day at around 1pm.
In the first chat Mr R says he wants to change the vehicle on his policy. However, the agent
cant offer a quotation. He says the information provided for the new cover doesnt meet the
current underwriters criteria. The agent offers to look at, a cancel and replace. He explains
this will mean cancelling Mr R s current policy and replacing it with another. This will be
underwritten by a different insurer. The agent says if Mr R proceeds with the quotation, One
Call will waiver the cancellation fee.
Mr R says, yes please. He queries why cover cant be offered by the existing insurer. The
agent explains its due to the value of the new vehicle and where its kept. There then follows
a brief discussion about the company providing the finance for the policy. However, this isnt
relevant to the issue here.
One calls agent then says, I can arrange a call from our sales team for a new quote... Mr R
agrees to this. He queries the agents reference to the outstanding balance. Mr R then says,
..I will go ahead with a call from your team then please. The chat then ends.
On the next webchat at 1pm Mr R says hed spoken with an agent earlier and was expecting
a call. The agent couldnt confirm an exact time for the call but says this had been
requested. Mr R says hes looking to get his motorbike insured today. He mentions looking
online himself and queries whether charges will be incurred. The agent tells Mr R, to cancel
the policy, you would incur the same ones advised to you earlier by [previous agent].
The chat continues the agent tells Mr R, ..the only price we have coming back on this
information is over £10,000 with us on our systems. Mr R replies, I will search myself and
see what happens if I get a call from your company. One Calls agent then says, I do
understand however if we call you, the only price we will over [sic] £11,200 for the year so
there is no reason for us to call now unless you want this policy?.
Mr R responds with, fine no problem. The agent then says, Please come back to use once
you are ready, thank you. The webchat then ends.
Theres no mention of Mr R having sold his motorbike, or that hed applied for SORN. Based
on the information Ive seen both of these happened later.
In the first webchat One Calls agent says the policy can be cancelled and replaced. But its
clear from the discussion that a call needs to take place for a quote to be provided. Its
explained One Calls cancellation will be waived. But Mr R will first have to proceed with the
quote, which he will be contacted about.
In the second webchat One Calls agent tells Mr R the costs he will incur to cancel the policy.
This is the outstanding balance on the existing policy. The agent tells Mr R it can only quote
over £11,200 and so queries whether theres a reason for it to call him. I dont think Mr R is
entirely clear in what he wanted to happen next when he said, fine no problem. One Calls
agent didnt try to clarify this. The agent wrote, Please come back to us once you are
ready.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr R gave an instruction for One Call to cancel his
insurance policy during these webchats. I dont think he did. At no point does he specifically
ask for the policy to be cancelled. The final webchat ends with One Calls agent saying,
please come back to us once you are ready. This was in response to Mr Rs comment that
he will search himself and see what happens if I get a call from your company.
I note One Calls comment that it cant presume from what was said that Mr R wanted to
cancel. I agree with what it says. I think the conversation couldve been clearer in what both
Mr R wanted and what One Calls agent understood was being requested. But I dont thinkMr R gave a clear instruction to cancel. The repercussions of a cancelling a policy in error
could have significant consequences. I dont think One Call was wrong not to instruct Mr Rs
insurer to cancel cover based on these webchats.
I note Mr R was still in possession of his old motorbike at the time of his contact with One
Call. Regardless of whether he was going to use it, it was still covered from losses resulting
from theft or damage by his policy.
One Call has said it tried to call Mr R, but it wasnt successful. Mr R says no voicemail was
left and he received no email from the business.
Having though about all of this, I dont think Mr R gave a clear instruction to cancel his
policy. If One Call had cancelled the policy this couldve meant exposing Mr R and
potentially itself to incurring a significant loss, if a claim was made. More care could have
been taken to clarify what Mr R wanted to happen. I think its fair that One Call offered £30
compensation for this. But I dont think it failed to act on a clear instruction to cancel the
policy.
Mr R paid his premium in monthly instalments. Presumably the ongoing insurance payments
would show as collected each month from his bank account. I think this could reasonably
have been noticed sooner. As it was, it took Mr R nine months to contact One Call to query
the ongoing payments.
In summary I dont think One Call treated Mr R unfairly when not cancelling his policy for the
reasons discussed. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
One Call didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
Mr R responded to say that during a webchat he confirmed that hed removed/changed his 
motorbike online on its website. He says its agent confirmed the cancellation fee had or 
would be waivered. Mr R says this means the policy was cancelled and so no more 
instalments shouldve been taken. 
Mr R says he was expecting a call from One Call with a new quote, and it told him it would 
cancel his existing policy and waiver the cancellation fee. He says he agreed to this. 
Mr R says at some point, possibly over the phone, he told One Call his bike was dead and 
that he had a new bike. He says he didnt mention insuring a second bike only that he 
wanted to update the policy for the new bike. He doesnt understand why he wouldve 
mentioned SORN as hed already told One Call he wanted to cancel. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Rs further comments that what he said to One Calls agent over the 
webchat, meant hed cancelled the policy. But I dont agree. Mr R doesnt specifically give an 
instruction to cancel. The webchat ends with One Call saying, please come back to us once you are ready. 
Based on this evidence I dont think Mr R gave a clear instruction to cancel or that its 
reasonable to conclude One Calls agent shouldve cancelled the policy based on the 
webchat discussion. 
As discussed, Mr R paid his premium by monthly instalment. I think this should reasonably 
have alerted him to the ongoing payments at an earlier juncture than it did. 
Im sorry Mr R remains unhappy that he paid premium instalments he thinks he shouldnt 
have. But having reconsidered the evidence and circumstances of his complaint, Im not 
persuaded to change my findings. My provisional decision will now become my final 
decision, and for the same reasoning.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman