DRN-2858081
The complaint
Mr F complains that a data storage he bought was not of satisfactory quality. Because he 
paid for it using his Virgin Money credit card, which is issued by Clydesdale Bank Plc, he 
says that it is equally liable with the supplier.  
What happened
Mr F has explained that he is a musician and music producer. He therefore needs to be able 
to receive, send and share digital files with other musicians, and store those files. This 
means that he needs significantly more digital storage capacity than, for example, most 
domestic users. Cloud storage does not, he says, provide him with sufficient capacity for his 
needs. 
In order to address this issue, he decided  after some research and enquiries  to buy a 
network attached storage (or NAS) system. On 23 May 2020 he placed an order with a 
company which I shall call W for a desktop NAS, a hard drive, build and test service and 
delivery. The total package cost just over £3,000. 
The package was delivered just over three weeks later. By this time Mr F had moved house. 
He says therefore that it was some time before he had internet access and was able to 
check the NAS system he had bought. When he did check it, however, he found that there 
were many problems. For example, other users, who should have been able to access the 
system to share files, could not do so; they were not directed to Mr Fs web domain as they 
should have been; and files were wrongly directed to the recycle bin. 
Mr F tried to sort out the problems through the manufacturers technical support function and 
has provided a transcript of a lengthy call using Team Viewer where a number of those 
problems are discussed. 
Mr Fs problems persisted, however, and he contacted both W and Virgin Money. He said 
that W had been in breach of contract because:
the items had not been delivered within the timeframe in the contract; and 
the NAS system was faulty.      
Neither W nor Virgin Money accepted that, and Mr F referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered what had happened. He noted that the order had 
referred to a 20-day lead time and so did not think the NAS system had been delivered late. 
And he was not persuaded either that the evidence showed that the items were faulty. Mr F 
did not accept the investigators opinion and asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if Mr F has a 
claim for breach of contract against W, he has a like claim against Virgin Money. I must 
therefore consider  but not decide  whether he has a claim against W. 
Mr F has provided extracts from Ws terms of business, which he says he was sent. They 
include a provision saying that orders will be despatched on the same day an order is 
received. Mr F says W was in breach of this provision, because the items were not delivered 
for some three weeks. They must have been sent some time after the date of the order. I 
note however that the same part of the terms notes that longer delivery times might apply of 
items are not in stock and that the order confirmation gives a lead time of 20 days. I do not 
believe that W was in breach of contract by delivering the items when it did. It delivered them 
in line with the time stated at the time of the order.   
Mr F says that he was not told about his cancellation rights. I note however that the terms of 
sale allowed him to return the items within seven days of receipt if he wanted to cancel the 
order. That is in line with The Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations 2000, 
although they also provide for an extension to the time limit if a consumer is not told about 
their right to cancel. It is arguable that the regulations did not apply here, since Mr F bought 
them not as a consumer but for his business. Be that as it may, Mr F says he was sent the 
terms, but he did not attempt to cancel the order within seven days of receipt. 
As I have indicated, Mr F appears to have been acting in this case other than as a 
consumer, since the purchase was for his business as a musician and producer. If that is the 
case, he was not entitled to the protection of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. I have 
nevertheless considered the position as if he were. 
The Act says that a consumer contract is to be read as including a term that items will be of 
satisfactory quality  which includes matters such as fitness for purpose. Like the 
investigator, I have considered carefully the evidence which Mr F has provided and which, 
he says, demonstrates that the NAS system did not function in the way he intended. That 
evidence largely comprises a transcript of Mr Fs conversation with a technician from the 
manufacturers support team and copies of exchanges with people trying to use the system. 
I am not however persuaded that Mr Fs evidence demonstrates that the system he bought 
was not fit for purpose or otherwise defective. It shows that he and others had difficulty using 
some of the services linked to it, but I do not believe I can safely assume that this means the 
items he bought were not fit for purpose. I note that Virgin Money said that it would need to 
see a technical report to show the reasons for the problems. I do not think that is necessary 
true, but I dont believe Mr F has produced enough evidence in this case. 
I note that W sought to set conditions on the circumstances in which it would accept returns 
 for example, items must be returned within seven days and a replacement is only available 
for 30 days. If, contrary to what I have suggested above, Mr F was acting as a consumer, 
those provisions might not be binding on him. However, as I am not persuaded the items he 
bought were defective in any event, I do not need to consider that any further. 
Finally, Mr F has said that he thinks a different card provider reduced his credit limit because 
of this dispute and that Virgin Money temporarily blocked a payment for the same reason. I 
do not believe either of those to be true and am satisfied there is no link.   
In the circumstances, I believe that Virgin Money has dealt with Mr Fs complaint fairly.            My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Bank Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Fs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman