DRN-4032268
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money he lost after 
falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
In summary: In 2021, Mr B was befriended by an individual Ill refer to as F. Mr B says that 
contact with F started on a social media website but moved to a messaging app. Prior to F 
making contact, a genuine friend of Mr Bs had been telling him about cryptocurrency and 
the money he made from trading in it. After having messaged extensively with F for a short 
period of time, F started talking to Mr B about cryptocurrency trading. As a result, Mr B made 
10 payments from his Barclays account. Mr B thought he was trading in cryptocurrency but 
had actually fallen victim to a very sophisticated scam.
Date Transaction Details Amount
21.2.2021 Credit to account from D £5,000.00 cr
23.2.2021 Payment to scammer £2,000.00
23.2.2021 Payment to scammer £2,000.00
23.2.2021 Payment to scammer £1,000.00
  2.3.2021 Payment to scammer £2,000.00
  2.3.2021 Payment to scammer £   628.27
  3.3.2021 Credit to account from D £5,000.00 cr
  3.3.2021 Credit to account from D £2,628.27 cr
  3.3.2021 Payment to scammer £1,000.00
  3.3.2021 Payment to scammer £2,000.00
  3.3.2021 Payment to scammer £2,000.00
  4.3.2021 Credit to account from D £5,000.00 cr
  4.3.2021 Payment to scammer £2,000.00
  4.3.2021 Payment to scammer £3,000.00
A few days after making the last payment Mr B became aware hed fallen victim to a scam 
and reported it to Barclays.
Barclays investigated Mr Bs fraud claim but declined to refund him. They told Mr B that no 
funds could be recovered from the beneficiary accounts. Also, they considered it a civil 
matter rather than a scam, as Mr B used the funds to buy USD currency or cryptocurrency 
from genuine sellers  before the resulting cryptocurrency was forwarded to the scammer.
Mr B wasnt happy with Barclays response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and partially upheld it. They felt the third 
payment shouldve been flagged by Barclays as unusual and warranted intervention which 
wouldve uncovered the scam. On that basis they recommended that Barclays refund Mr B 
for all payments from the third payment onwards. However, they felt Mr B didnt complete 
sufficient checks before making the payments, so reduced the refund by 50%.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
When he attended the Barclays branch, he asked them if the app he was using was 
legitimate. He says Barclays confirmed it was, which convinced him it was a genuine 
investment. He feels we havent put enough weight on the level of trust he placed in 
Barclays.
He disagrees that messaging apps arent used for professional purposes and arent a 
legitimate way to find and make investments.
While he found no information about the app when researching it online, that isnt 
unusual. He believed it was a Chinese company and therefore information about it 
could be on the Chinese internet. Also, search engines do not always index new 
information immediately. By taking the app to Barclays and asking them if he should 
have any concerns, he felt hed done appropriate checks about its legitimacy.
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 2 March 2023, I issued my provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I havent included a lot of detail in my explanation about how the scam 
unfolded, whereas Mr B has provided significant information and detail about the scam in his 
submission. However, in this case, Im not satisfied that it is pertinent to the decision I have 
reached, and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that this may be disappointing and confusing for Mr B, but Im not satisfied that I 
can fairly recommend that Barclays refund him  as Im not satisfied that he has suffered a 
financial loss as the result of the scam.
I say this because all of the payments that Mr B made as part of the scam, were funded by 
money transferred into his Barclays account by a party Ill refer to as D.
From what Ive seen the first payments made to the scammer were sent from Ds account. 
However, after Ds bank blocked her account, D and Mr B wanted to continue sending 
payments so they transferred the money from Ds account to Mr Bs account before he 
forwarded the funds on to the cryptocurrency wallets and ultimately to the scammers.
Also, I have notes from Barclays detailing a discussion with Mr B which say Cx states that 
he will be investing approx. 20k on behalf of D.
Mr B says hed had no problems previously making transactions from his account, so they 
used his account to continue making payments. This means that the funds lost as part of the 
scam are Ds not Mr Bs, and that Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss in relation to his 
Barclays account. 
I appreciate that Mr B made payments to the scam from other accounts in his name, but in 
this case, Im only looking at the transactions made from his Barclays bank account. And, on 
the basis that he hasnt suffered a loss, I couldnt fairly ask Barclays to refund any of the 
money even if I upheld his complaint - as hes not entitled to it. Any loss needs to be assessed in relation to Ds accounts, which are being handled separately under a complaint 
in her name.
My provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays responded accepting my decision and saying they had nothing further to add. Mr B 
provided a very detailed response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Bs full response to my provisional decision, however none of the points hes 
raised are directly in response to my finding that he hasnt suffered a financial loss due to the 
payments made as part of the scam being funded by D.
Because of this, I see no reason to depart from the decision I reached in my provisional 
decision and therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman