DRN-4103500
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy HSBC UK Bank PLC hasnt refunded money he lost as a result of a scam. 
Mr B is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill refer 
to Mr B in my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2022 Mr B was contacted by a merchant and was asked to send a total of around £11,350 
to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange before moving the money on to the merchant. After 
the merchant continued to ask for more money from Mr B and told him that there would be 
large fees to withdraw his funds he realised he had been scammed. 
HSBC considered the complaint but decided not to refund the money Mr B had lost. Mr B 
said that the £3,000 payment he made in September 2022 shouldve been stopped by 
HSBC. And if it had this wouldve stopped him from sending any more money to the 
scammers. So, he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr B had previously 
sent a larger payment (£4,200) to another account in his name and had previously sent 
money to the same genuine cryptocurrency exchange before the scam took place. So, he 
didnt think the payments Mr B made towards the scam were so unusual that they warranted 
any intervention and further questioning by HSBC. 
Mr B disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the payment he made 
before the scam took place (£4,200) was to a savings account and wasnt a high-risk 
payment to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. And he then sent £11,000 over three days 
in September 2022 which was out of character for his account. So, HSBC should refund the 
money he lost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr B has been the victim of a scam. I know he feels 
strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain 
why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr B authorised the scam payments. I accept that these were 
authorised payments even though Mr B was the victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt his 
intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr B to HSBC (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity. 
So, Ive reviewed the statements HSBC has provided of Mr Bs accounts. Ive seen that he 
generally maintained a healthy balance on the account (around £258 was in the account 
after the payments were made towards this scam) and that he made a larger payment on the 
account previously (a £4,200 payment in February 2022). I note this was to a savings 
account in his name, but its still considered to be a payment leaving his account. So, Im 
satisfied it wasnt unusual for him to send larger payments from time to time. 
Ive also considered that Mr B did send genuine payments to the same cryptocurrency 
exchange before the scam took place. Which meant payments to that cryptocurrency 
exchange werent out of character for his account. I appreciate Mr B has said payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange are high-risk. But that alone isnt sufficient for me to consider these 
to be unusual payments in all the circumstances here  account usage can change over 
time. 
As a result, Im not satisfied the payments Mr B made towards this scam were sufficiently 
unusual or suspicious that HSBC shouldve stopped them or contacted him to discuss the 
payment in more detail before allowing him to make it. 
Ive considered whether HSBC acted reasonably after it was made aware of the scam. I 
cant see that HSBC attempted to recover Mr Bs funds on this occasion. But because the 
account Mr B sent the money to was in his name, and hes confirmed his funds were 
forwarded to the scammers, its unlikely that HSBC wouldve been able to reclaim his money 
here.
Im sorry to hear Mr B lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think HSBC have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman