DRN-3728898
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vitality Health Limited unfairly declined his private medical insurance 
policy and that the policy was mis-sold. My references to Vitality include its agents which 
include the business that sold the policy to Mr B.
What happened
In June 2019 Vitality sold Mr B private medical insurance through a sales call. In the call 
Mr B told Vitality he took a named medication for his depression and anxiety.
Vitality recommended Mr B have a policy on moratorium underwriting. In summary that  
meant he wouldnt be covered for treatment of existing medical conditions for two years from 
the start of the policy. After the two year period there could be cover for his conditions if he 
met the criteria set out in the policy terms. Vitality offered, and Mr B bought, the optional 
mental health policy cover which provided additional services for mental health conditions for 
an additional premium.
In autumn 2021 Mr B claimed under the policy for mental health support after he had 
personal difficulties. Vitality declined the claim. It said the claim was for his pre-existing 
condition of depression/anxiety. And as hed continued taking his medication for 
depression/anxiety he hadnt been two years medication free since he took out the policy, so 
under the policy terms there was no cover for the claim.
Mr B complained to us. In summary he said:
Vitality unfairly declined the claim because the moratorium period doesnt mention 
medication and also his claim related to grief induced trauma which was a separate 
condition from his depression.
In declining the claim Vitality had discriminated against him contrary to the 
Equality Act 2010.
Vitality mis-sold the policy as hed told it he was taking medication for his long-term 
invisible disability of depression and he hadnt indicated he would stop taking the 
medication. 
He wouldnt have taken out the mental health cover if hed known it wouldnt cover 
his depression/anxiety.
He wants Vitality to refund the premiums for his mental health cover and the 
remaining policy premiums as compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator said Vitality fairly declined the claim but it had mis-sold the additional mental 
health cover element of the policy. She recommended Vitality refund Mr B the premiums for 
the mental health cover plus interest.
Mr B accepted our investigators recommendation. Vitality didnt accept it should pay any 
refund. It said it was clear about the policy criteria during the policy sale. Also Mr B didnt say 
the sole reason he took the additional mental health cover was due to his depression/anxiety 
and he could have claimed for another mental health condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
The relevant industry guidance says Vitality must handle claims promptly and fairly and must 
not unreasonably decline a claim.
As Mr B accepted our investigators findings I understand hes accepted Vitality fairly 
declined the claim. But for the avoidance of doubt Ive considered whether Vitality did fairly 
decline the claim and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the heading Your guide to our moratorium clause - How do you 
exclude cover for pre-existing conditions?:
We dont pay claims for the treatment of any medical condition or related condition 
which you have received medical treatment for, had symptoms of, asked advice on or 
to the best of your knowledge and belief were aware existed in the five years before 
your cover started (a pre-existing medical condition).
However, subject to the plan terms and conditions, a pre-existing medical condition
can become eligible for cover providing you have not
 taken medication (including prescription or over-the-counter drugs, medicines, 
special diets or injections), for that pre-existing medical condition or any related 
condition for two continuous years after your cover start date.
Ive listened to the claim call. Mr B told Vitality that since 2016 hed been taking the named 
medication for diagnosed depression and anxiety and he continued to take the mediation. 
He explained the sad circumstances which had led him to having an anxiety attack which led 
to making the claim for mental health support under the policy.
I think Vitality reasonably understood Mr B had continued to take his medication for his 
depression/anxiety throughout the two years from the start of the policy. So he hadnt met 
the above policy criteria for cover for his depression/anxiety. 
Mr B says his need to claim was because of symptoms caused by his bereavements and 
other difficult issues for him, which were separate to his depression/anxiety which was well 
managed. But the policy defines a related condition as:
Any symptom, disease, illness or injury which reasonable medical opinion considers 
to be associated with another symptom, disease, illness or injury. It may also be 
known as an `underlying cause or `condition arising therefrom.
In the claim call Mr B told Vitality hed had an anxiety attack. I havent seen any independent 
medical evidence that Vitality acted unfairly in treating Mr Bs claim as being for mental 
health support due to an escalation in his depression/anxiety, even if they were sadly 
triggered by his very difficult circumstances. 
Our investigator correctly explained that it's not our role to say whether a business has acted 
unlawfully or not. Whether or not Vitality acted contrary to the Equality Act 2010 is a matter 
for the courts to decide. Our role is to decide what's fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, taking into account the relevant law and good industry practice. Under the 
Equality Act 2010 insurers can make decisions about providing cover based on risk, 
including when there is a greater risk as the result of a disability. So I think Vitality could 
fairly include Mr Bs disability as a factor in deciding whether to provide cover, and if so on 
what terms. From the evidence Ive seen I think Vitality acted fairly in saying the moratorium policy terms 
criteria applied to Mr Bs pre-existing condition of depression/anxiety. And I think Vitality 
acted fairly in saying that the claim related to his depression/anxiety. As Mr B continued to 
take the medication for his pre-existing condition of depression/anxiety in the two years after 
the start of the policy Im satisfied that Mr Bs claim wasnt covered by the policy terms and 
Vitality reasonably declined the claim.
Did Vitality mis-sale the policy or additional mental health cover to Mr B?
The relevant industry guidance says Vitality should ensure the policy is suitable for the 
demands and needs of a consumer and provide clear, fair and non-misleading information.  
Ive listened to the sales call. During the call Vitality asked Mr B if he took any medication 
and Mr B said he was taking named medication for his depression and anxiety. Vitality told 
Mr B that based on the information hed given it recommended a moratorium underwriting 
based policy and it correctly told Mr B the terms of the moratorium. 
But I think the additional mental health cover was mis-sold to Mr B. Ill explain why. 
When Vitality and Mr B discussed the optional mental health cover Vitality told Mr B he 
would need to wait for two years to use the cover but it recommended he have it for the 
future because his depression/anxiety could come back. Mr B responded that the cover 
might be worth having and building up the two years.
But Mr B had already told Vitality he was taking medication for depression/anxiety and I dont 
think Vitality made it clear enough to Mr B that it wasnt just a case of waiting two year for 
those conditions to be covered. I think that at the point Vitality sold Mr B mental health cover 
it should have been very clear that to have cover for his depression/anxiety he needed to 
have a two year period without taking medication/advice/ treatment, including the medication 
he was currently taking, for those conditions to be covered. 
I dont accept Vitalitys suggestion that Mr B might not have taken out the mental health 
cover for his depression/anxiety. The sales conversation between Vitality and Mr B centred 
on his potential need for the cover due to those conditions. Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not Mr B took out the optional mental health cover to get additional support for his 
depression/anxiety. When he found out the policy didnt cover those conditions he cancelled 
the whole policy.
At the time Mr B took out the policy hed been taking medication for his depression/anxiety 
for about three years. Hes told us the conditions were well managed on the medication so 
he had no plans to stop the medication, which I accept. Im satisfied that if at the time the 
mental health cover was sold Vitality had given clear information to Mr B that from the policy 
start date he needed to have a two year period without taking his medication to be covered 
then he wouldnt have bought the mental health cover.
As I find Vitality mis-sold the optional mental health cover I think it should refund to Mr B the 
premiums for the mental health cover plus interest as Ive set out below.
I dont think the entire policy was mis-sold to Mr B. The policy provides wide benefits Mr B 
could have used regardless of his pre-existing depression/anxiety. Theres no basis for me 
to say Vitality must refund all the policy premiums to Mr B.
Mr B asked for compensation for his inconvenience of making the complaint and his distress 
at the claim decline. I dont generally award compensation for the inconvenience a consumer 
has in making a complaint and theres no reason for me to do so in this case. I understand 
Mr B was distressed by Vitalitys decline of his claim at a very difficult time for him. But as 
I think Vitality fairly declined the claim I cant reasonably say it must pay him compensation 
for his distress its claim decline caused.Putting things right
Vitality must refund to Mr B all the premiums he paid for the optional mental health cover  
under the policy, plus interest as detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Vitality Health Limited to refund to Mr B all the premiums 
he paid for the optional mental health cover under his private medical insurance policy. 
Interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of payment of those premiums to 
the date of settlement.
*If Vitality Health Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman