DRN-2037106
The complaint
Mr B complains that a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, that he used 
to pay for some replacement windows, and the windows were mis-sold and misrepresented 
to him. Mr B is being helped with his complaint by a representative.
What happened
Mr B signed a purchase order with a supplier in April 2017 for it to supply and fit some 
replacement windows. He also entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook 
Bank to pay for the windows. The windows were installed in May 2017 and since then the 
supplied has stopped trading. Mr Bs representative complained to Shawbrook Bank in June 
2019 that the replacement windows and the fixed sum loan agreement were mis-sold and 
misrepresented to Mr B.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Shawbrook Banks response so complained to this service that the 
loan agreement was misrepresented to him and that the windows were mis-sold to him and 
that it should refund him under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for the 
misrepresented purchase of the windows and the loan agreement. His representative 
provided a detailed letter which sets out the basis of Mr Bs complaint, including that he was 
elderly and vulnerable, and that the supplier used unfair and misleading trading practices.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr B 
had signed the agreement and had the right to withdraw from it if he felt uncomfortable or 
wasnt happy with it - so he was satisfied that there wasn't any mis-representation under 
section 75 and he didnt think that Shawbrook Bank had acted unfairly.
Mr Bs representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by 
ombudsman and said that it would provide further evidence to support Mr Bs complaint  
but hasnt done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and his wife signed the suppliers purchase order in April 2017 which showed that the 
cost of the windows was £7,085 - but they chose to open an account and received a subsidy 
of £982 which reduced the price to £6,103 - and they paid a deposit of £100 so the balance 
due was £6,003. Mr B also electronically signed a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook Bank for £6,003 which he agreed to repay by 120 monthly instalments of 
£109.33. 
The right to cancel the order was clearly set out on the purchase order and the right to 
withdraw from the loan was clearly set out in the loan agreement  but Ive seen no evidence 
to show that Mr B wanted to cancel the order or withdraw from the loan during the applicable 
periods.
The windows were installed in May 2017 and Mr B signed a satisfaction note to confirm that 
hed received the windows, they had been substantially fitted to his satisfaction and that the 
balance of £6,003 should be paid to the supplier. Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr B 
had any issues with the the windows or the loan agreement at that time or that he 
complained to the supplier or Shawbrook Bank about the windows or loan agreement being 
mis-sold or misrepresented to him until his representatives complaint to Shawbrook Bank in 
June 2019  more than two years after the windows had been installed.
Although his representative says that Mr B was vulnerable and elderly and only became 
aware of his right to complain after watching a television programme, I consider that if Mr B 
was concerned about the windows or the loan agreement being mis-sold to him that it would 
be reasonable to expect him to have done more to contact the supplier or Shawbrook Bank 
about those concerns and to have tried to cancel the order, withdraw from the loan, not sign 
the satisfaction note or to have complained to either the supplier before it stopped trading or 
Shawbrook Bank before June 2019. And Mr B had continued to make the loan repayments 
to Shawbrook Bank without complaining that the windows or loan agreement were mis-sold 
or misrepresented to him.
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs representatives detailed letter which sets out the basis of 
Mr Bs complaint  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the 
supplier used unfair or misleading trading practices in its dealings with Mr B. Nor am I 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the windows or the loan agreement were mis-sold or misrepresented to Mr B or that the 
supplier or Shawbrook Bank has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr B.
I sympathise with Mr B for the concerns that he now has, but he has received the windows 
that he agreed to pay for. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require Shawbrook Bank to end the loan agreement, to refund to Mr B any of the 
money that hes paid to it, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman