DRN-3765315
The complaint
Mrs T complains that NewDay Ltd didnt uphold her claim after the supplier didnt provide her 
with a refund for a returned item she acquired using her NewDay credit card.
What happened
Mrs T ordered a mobile phone on 30 August 2021. She returned the phone to the supplier 
but didnt receive a refund. She contacted the supplier about this but after four weeks with no 
refund she contacted NewDay. She says she was told to log a dispute on the transaction 
which she did. After a few days Mrs Ts account was credited with the cost of the phone. She 
thought this had resolved the issue but in December 2021 she received an email from 
NewDay saying the seller had said the dispute wasnt valid and had provided proof of the 
transaction. Mrs Ts account was then re-debited the cost of the phone. Mrs T says the 
dispute was never about the phone being received but about her not getting a refund after 
she returned it.
NewDay said that the chargeback was raised, and a temporary credit applied to Mrs Ts 
account on 12 October. However, it found that Mrs T hadnt provided evidence to show that 
the supplier had agreed to provide a refund only that there had been a delay in the refund 
that the supplier was looking into. It therefore held Mrs T liable for the transaction and re-
debited her account on 20 December. It said it only had one attempt to raise a chargeback 
and the required evidence hadnt been supplied. It said that if Mrs T had further evidence of 
the refund being provided then she should provide this, and her claim could be considered 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s. 75).
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted that the supplier had confirmed receipt of 
the phone Mrs T had returned and said a refund would be provided. Mrs T hadnt received 
the refund and he thought there had been a breach of contract. Because of this he thought 
Mrs Ts claim should be upheld under s. 75. He recommended that Mrs T be refunded the 
cost of phone (£1,099) and have her credit card reworked to reflect this. He also 
recommended she be paid £100 compensation.
NewDay didnt agree. It said that the supplier had only confirmed the refund on the account 
that related to the temporary credit from the chargeback claim (which was later reversed) 
rather than an actual refund. It said Mrs T hadnt provided evidence that she had contacted 
the supplier in May 2022, confirming that her chargeback had been challenged and the 
amount of £1,099 returned to the supplier, as was requested by its s.75 team. It said Mrs T 
hadnt made any attempts to resolve this issue with the supplier after the credit was 
reversed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T bought a phone and then decided to return it. She has provided evidence that the 
supplier accepted her return request and said that once the goods had been received a 
refund would be processed. Mrs T has provided evidence of her returning the item on 6 
September 2021 using the returns label and the supplier confirming receipt on the 9 
September. Based on this I find that Mrs T returned the phone, and this was received by the 
supplier. So, I accept that and a refund was due.
Mrs T says as a refund hadnt been provided and she contacted NewDay to see if it could 
assist. NewDay recommended that she completed a disputed transaction form which she 
did. While I note the comments in NewDays final response letter about Mrs T not providing 
evidence the refund had been agreed, I think that the information she provided from 
6 October about the delay in the refund and this being looked into with the delay to be 
explained and the refund confirmed was reasonable evidence that the supplier accepted a 
refund was due. Had this not been sufficient I think that NewDay should have explained to 
Mrs T at that time what further evidence it needed to support her case. 
I also note that the supplier defended the chargeback claim but the defence was about the 
item being supplied and as the claim was about the refund not being given I do not think this 
was a reasonable defence. So, while I can see NewDay went through the chargeback 
process as we would have expected, in regard to applying the temporary refund and 
contacting the supplier, I do not think the evidence from the supplier addressed the claim 
regarding the refund and I think this should have been considered further.
NewDay then said it could consider the issue under s.75. I do not find this unreasonable and 
agree that the claim can be considered under s.75. Under s.75 it is necessary for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation to have taken place. In this case the question is about whether 
there has been a breach of contract.
NewDay says that Mrs T didnt provide the evidence it requested and because it didnt have 
enough evidence it didnt uphold her claim. I can see that NewDay asked Mrs T to provide 
evidence that she had contacted the supplier to explain the chargeback credit had been re-
debited. I cannot see that this happened. However, in this case as the suppliers returns 
policy allowed the item to be returned and Mrs T received an email to say her return request 
had been accepted and including the label for the return to happen, I think that it should 
have been accepted that once the item had been received by the supplier the refund would 
be due. Mrs T has provided the evidence to show that the supplier received the item and that 
a refund was being processed but then this didnt materialise. Given this I think that there is 
enough to say that there was a breach of contract by the refund not being provided and so I 
uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Mrs T has been caused distress and inconvenience because of the issues with her refund. I 
think that NewDay should have identified sooner that the refund was due and hadnt been 
provided. Because of this I think it is reasonable it pays £100 to Mrs T for the trouble and 
upset she has been caused.
Putting things right
As I uphold this complaint, NewDay should:
Refund Mrs T £1,099 (the cost of the returned phone) and rework the credit card 
balance as though the payment hadnt been made, refunding any charges and 
interest that wouldnt otherwise have been applied. And
Pay Mrs T £100 for the inconvenience she has been caused through this process.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd should take the actions set out 
above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman