DRN-2146884
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about an application for a lifetime mortgage he made to more 2 life Ltd. 
He believes the valuation it had produced as part of the process, significantly undervalued 
his home. That led to the amount more 2 life would lend to him being less than the amount 
of his existing mortgage, which had to be paid off as requirement of lending.
In addition, Mr C has provided more 2 life with a valuation he commissioned and details 
of the errors he considered its valuation contained. However, more 2 life didnt agree to 
use the higher valuation of his home and revise its decision about lending.
What happened
Mr C applied for a lifetime mortgage on his home in January 2019. As part of that process 
he estimated the value of his home as £2,000,000. At the time Mr C had an existing 
traditional mortgage on his home of just under £380,000, which more 2 life required to be 
repaid as a condition of lending.
A mortgage valuation was completed 19 January 2019. This put a value on Mr Cs home of
£1,000,000.
Following this more 2 life informed Mr C that the most it could lend based on the property 
value would have been £290,000, which wasnt enough to clear the existing mortgage. Mr 
C appealed the valuation and when he provided details of properties, which he considered 
were comparable to his, which had sold for more, more 2 life forwarded that information to 
the surveyor for consideration. The surveyor didnt alter its valuation and Mr Cs application 
was closed.
In June 2019 Mr C went back to more 2 life complaining about the valuation. more 2 life 
explained to Mr C that it had commissioned independent, external expert opinion about 
the value of a property for mortgage purposes. It was not responsible for the content of 
the valuation, and so it forwarded Mr Cs concerns to the surveying business.
Mr C didnt get a response to his complaint from the surveying business and he went back 
to more 2 life with his complaint.
more 2 life responded to Mr Cs complaint, it but didnt uphold it. It set out what had 
happened and again explained why it hadnt responded to the complaint about the content 
of the survey. However, as the surveying business hadnt responded to Mr Cs concerns 
about the valuation, more 2 life obtained the surveying business response to Mr Cs 
concerns and included it in its response. more 2 life confirmed that it couldnt be held 
accountable for the content of the valuation. It went on to explain that when it makes 
decision about lending, it must be satisfied the property is adequate security and it relies on 
an independent valuation for this process. It reminded Mr C that it had been willing to lend, 
but the amount of his existing mortgage prevented it.
In October 2019 Mr C sent more 2 life a valuation he had commissioned from a firm of 
chartered surveyors. This estimated the value of Mr Cs home as £1,250,000 based on 
comparator houses sold some months after the January 2019 valuation was done. more 
2 life forwarded the valuation to its valuers and confirmed it would revert to Mr C when it 
had received further comment.
Further correspondence was exchanged, but more 2 life didnt change its decision about 
the valuation and maintained its position had been reasonable at the time of the application 
and upon Mr Cs appeal to the valuation. In addition, it apologised for not forwarding the 
surveyors comments about the valuation earlier and offered Mr C a compensation 
payment of £100.
Mr C wasnt happy with more 2 lifes position and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. He said that more 2 life committed to providing a fair and reasonable 
property valuation, reflecting the current market value. However, he considers their 
lending decision was based on a valuation which is erroneous, because it contained 
errors and failed to comply with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
standards. Mr C considers more 2 lifes decision to rely on the valuation it commissioned 
lacks integrity and is unreasonable.
In addition, whilst Mr C acknowledged that we are unable to look at the detail of the 
valuations, he believes it is reasonable to expect us to make an assessment of the two 
financial valuations and the significant difference of £250,000. He explained the valuation 
is a critical part of the lending process and is inextricably linked.
Mr C said more 2 life hadnt commented on the valuation he had produced. He alleged that 
more 2 life had chosen not to respond to that valuation or accept it, as having his house 
undervalued was to its advantage. He also mentioned valuations produced by local estate 
agents, which valued the property in excess of £1,300,000. Mr C proposed the complaint be 
resolved by him making a new mortgage application to more 2 life and it use the valuation 
he had produced in October 2019. This would allow more 2 life to advance a sum of more 
than was needed to repay Mr Cs existing mortgage.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs further submissions. He explained that we couldnt 
compel more 2 life to lend Mr C the amount he needed to repay his existing mortgage. He 
also pointed out the valuation Mr C had provided was dated nine months after the actions 
of more 2 life being complained about. So, he didnt think its content altered his 
consideration of more 2 lifes decision in January 2019. The investigator also explained 
why valuations from estate agents wouldnt be used for lending purposes.
Mr C again didnt accept the investigators view of his case. He reiterated some of his 
previous points and said the period between his application being assessed and the date of 
his valuation, was because of the delay by more 2 life and the surveying business. Mr C 
also provided details of another two properties he considered evidenced the valuation in
January 2019 was wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a lender is considering an application for borrowing, it needs to know the property 
being put forward is reasonable security for the debt. In the case of a lifetime mortgage, the 
lender needs to be satisfied that it is likely to be good security for a debt that will increase year on year. Most lenders dont have their own in-house surveying service, so they hire in 
external experts to provide this function. It is entirely reasonable that they do, as long as 
they hire in appropriately qualified experts. I am satisfied more 2 life did just that  they 
commissioned a RICS registered surveyor to complete a valuation.
As the valuation of a property isnt a regulated activity, if that function is delegated to an 
expert, it isnt something we can consider. We can look at the circumstances up to the 
point when the valuation was commissioned and what the lender did with it once received, 
but content of the valuation and the process the surveyor used to create it, is not 
something we can hold more 2 life responsible for.
So whilst Mr C is unhappy with the contents of the valuation report thats not 
something more 2 life is responsible for and not something I can comment on.
When the valuation report was received, more 2 life considered its content and gave Mr C a 
lending decision. There was nothing wrong with it doing this. When Mr C raised concerns 
about the valuation and provided comparators he considered were more appropriate, more 
2 life forwarded the information to the surveyor for review. The surveyor confirmed that 
having considered Mr Cs information and comparators, it remained satisfied its valuation 
was correct. more 2 life maintained its decision about the amount it could lend based on 
that confirmation. Again, I dont consider that was unreasonable for it to have done so.
more 2 life also explained to Mr C that it wasnt responsible for the content of the valuation 
 that was the surveyor  and as such it had passed the complaint Mr C made to the 
surveyor. Again, this was not unreasonable as more 2 life couldnt comment about the 
conclusions of the surveyor. Its unfortunate the surveyor didnt respond to Mr Cs 
complaint, but that again isnt something I can hold more 2 life responsible for.
Mr C provided his own survey nine months later. I know he considers this proved the 
valuation completed for more 2 life in January 2019 was wrong. However, the property 
market changes over time and, as our investigator highlighted, a significant amount of time 
had passed between the two assessments being completed. Given that, I dont consider it 
represents evidence that meant more 2 life shouldnt have, in January 2019, relied on the 
valuation it had commissioned. The same applies to the further properties Mr C mentioned 
in his response to our investigators opinion.
I know Mr C wants this service to comment on the figures the two valuations contained, but 
we cant do that. Those values are the product of a business that we have no jurisdiction 
over and about a business area we are not experts in. In commenting on the valuation 
figures, we would effectively be commenting on the assessment that led to that figure. 
Thats not something we have the expertise or the jurisdiction to do.
Mr C doesnt think the valuation was fair and reasonable, because he doesnt agree with 
how much it concluded his home was worth in January 2019. He also thinks it likely that his 
home was purposely undervalued for the benefit of more 2 life. I have seen no evidence 
that more 2 life attempted to, or did, influence the independent surveyor to provide a 
valuation it knew was lower than it should be. Nor do I think the process it went through in 
Mr Cs case was unreasonable or unfair. I would also comment that the valuation being as 
low as it was, didnt work to more 2 lifes benefit as it meant the amount it could lend wasnt 
enough to clear Mr Cs existing mortgage and so no mortgage was advanced; so more 2 
life couldnt profit from the situation.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
Derry Baxter
 
Ombudsman