DRN-2134825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI policy in 2000 when they applied for their mortgage. 
Nationwide cant confirm where the sale took place, Mr and Mrs S recall it was in a meeting 
and I think thats most likely. The policy gave them accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. They paid a monthly amount for it. They increased the cover under their policy in 
2003 when they applied for a further advance.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  so, on what I consider is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. I cant know what was discussed during the sale. Mr and Mrs S say they 
felt under pressure to take out the policy. They were told their mortgage application would be 
looked on more favourably if they took PPI. Nationwide says it has seen no evidence they 
were told this; the policy was optional and none of the documentation states or implies 
otherwise. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented verbally, but I have 
looked at the available paperwork from the sale. Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application shows 
they agreed to take out PPI. They both signed a separate section to confirm this, answering 
a number of eligibility questions. And there is nothing in that section that I think could 
reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory. Mr and Mrs S also say 
Nationwide never told them they could go elsewhere for PPI, but it was under no obligation 
to do so.  
I have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ss recollections, but I have to take into account 
how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they remember. And I havent 
found enough other evidence to conclude they were pressured to buy PPI. Overall, without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly uphold their complaint on this point.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs S, so it didnt have to check 
the policy was right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs S enough information so 
they could decide for themselves whether they wanted to buy it. Mr and Mrs S say nothing 
was explained, not enough information was given to them. I agree its possible the 
information Mr and Mrs S were given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better 
information. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time and 
the policys terms and conditions.
They werent affected by any of the terms limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
certain types of employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions. As they 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
Mr and Mrs S have confirmed their circumstances hadnt changed between 2000 and 
2003. They were both entitled to at least six months sick pay and had savings worth 
at least six months salary. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work 
benefits and for much longer - up to 24 months. It would have allowed them to use 
any savings they had to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for their future needs. It also gave them up to 24 months redundancy 
cover. They also said their parents could help but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. 
Mr and Mrs S were borrowing a large sum of money over a long period secured 
against their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, 
I think the PPI wouldve have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if they were sick, had an 
accident or lost their job(s). And as they were paying monthly, they could cancel it if 
their situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
I dont know when the cost was first made clear, but the policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. 
So, in summary, I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr and Mrs S asked why Nationwide referred to their refund as redress and not Plevin. But 
its the same thing, and its just that different wording has been adopted by different 
organisations. Such redress or refund payments are sometimes referred to as Plevin 
because that was the surname of the individual who took a PPI mis-sale case to court. From what we have seen of how Nationwide is calculating these payments, we are satisfied 
it is following the rules and guidance that the Financial Conduct Authority put in place in 
2017 about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman