DRN-3873551
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) closed 
her credit card account following an alleged period of persistent debt without giving her the 
warnings set out in the relevant guidance.
What happened
Miss S held a credit card with Barclaycard. Barclaycard says that the account payment 
history meant that it was in persistent debt from April 2020. It says that it emailed her each 
month in relation to this between May 2020 and January 2021, setting out the monthly 
payment she needed to make in order to get out of persistent debt. It says that it wrote to 
Miss S on 23 February 2021 to confirm that she was in persistent debt, and again providing 
monthly payment level which would get her out of this. 
Barclaycard says that it wrote again on 19 October 2021 to confirm that the account had 
been in persistent debt for 36 months, and to offer a paydown plan. That letter says that, 
unless a paydown plan is put in place, that the account will be suspended on 29 December 
2021. 
Miss S says that she did not receive any of this correspondence. She says that she received 
a text message on 16 November 2021 warning her that her card would be suspended on 29 
December 2021, and that this came as a surprise to her. She says that she then received an 
undated letter which required her to pay the balance in full by 29 December 2021 to avoid 
this suspension. She says that, in the circumstances, Barclaycard had not complied with the 
relevant guidance, which sets out that letters must be sent out at key points before taking 
such action in relation to persistent debt. Miss S says that she contacted the bank by 
telephone, and was told that her account would likely be closed even if she were to pay the 
balance in full.
Barclaycard says that, following this call, it sent a further letter on 2 December 2021. The 
letter says that the account would be suspended as it had been in persistent debt for 36 
months. That letter also says that a review will take place upon the account coming out of 
persistent debt. It says that the decision as to whether to close the card would be taken at 
that review.
Miss S cleared the balance on the account in January 2022. Barclaycard wrote to Miss S to 
let her know it had decided to close the account around 2 February 2022, and closed the 
account around 20 April 2022.
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard had treated Miss S fairly. They thought that it had 
communicated appropriately with Miss S and that the account had been closed 
appropriately. They said that complaint handling could not be assessed as part of their 
investigation, as it is not a regulated activity.
Miss S did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can see Miss S raises a number of concerns about Barclaycards engagement with her 
complaint. There is a difference between a complaint about a financial service and a 
complaint about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can only look at the former. Miss Ss 
concerns about Barclaycards response (or lack of) to her complaint is not a complaint about 
Barclaycards provision of or failure to provide a financial service  its distinctly about 
complaint handling.  And under our rules I cannot consider complaint handling.  
I have considered whether it was reasonable to assess Miss Ss account as being in 
persistent debt. Having considered the account statements from the relevant period, I am 
satisfied that Miss S paid more in interest and charges than she repaid off the balance in the 
relevant period. In these circumstances, it was reasonable to assess her account as being in 
persistent debt.
The banks records show that a particular email template with a particular reference was 
sent on a monthly basis over the period the bank has described. While I cannot see the 
specific emails which were sent, I am satisfied that the email template I have been shown, 
with the same reference number, is accurate. It describes the persistent debt and gives the 
monthly payment which would need to be made to address this. I have considered the email 
address which the bank held for Miss S over the relevant period. It is the same one which 
has been used during the course of correspondence with this service. In the circumstances, I 
am satisfied that Barclaycard was emailing Miss S appropriately over the relevant period, 
giving her the information she needed to act upon in relation to the persistent debt.
I have considered the letters which the bank describes. Similarly to the emails, I can see 
from Barclaycards records that standard letters were sent out in January 2021 and October 
2021. These are described as Persistent Debt 27 month letter and PD36 letter. The log 
describes an amount which Miss S would need to pay to get her account out of persistent 
debt. I have considered the address which the bank held for Miss S. It is the same as the 
one which has been used in correspondence with this service. I am satisfied in the 
circumstances that the letters were sent as described and sent to the correct address.
In relation to both the emails and the letters, I am satisfied that they were sent properly by 
Barclaycard. It could not control whether or not these were received or read. But it complied 
with the relevant guidelines by sending Miss S appropriate communications in relation to the 
persistent debt.
The letter from Barclaycard of 2 December 2021 makes clear that the account might be 
closed following a review, even if the account comes out of persistent debt. Miss S says that 
the bank staff member was threatening her when she was told that this was likely. But that 
information proved correct. Following a review, and in line with the warning it had given in its 
letter of 2 December 2021, Barclaycard decided that it would close the account. In line with 
term 19 of the terms and conditions of the account, Barclaycard gave Miss S two months 
notice of the account closure. The letter gives the reasons as being the affordability of the 
credit to Miss S, together with what it knew about her situation. I am satisfied that 
Barclaycard was entitled to do this and that it acted fairly and reasonably toward her in the 
way that it communicated throughout.
I can understand how disappointing this will be to Miss S, but I am satisfied that Barclaycard 
has acted fairly and reasonably toward her. I am not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman