DRN-2126223
The complaint
Mr M complains about the valuation that Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
car after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident and Admiral said it was beyond economical repair. 
Admiral offered Mr M £11,810 in settlement of his claim. But Mr M said hed seen similar 
cars advertised for £15,000. He thought Admiral hadnt taken into account the cars optional 
extras. He was also unhappy with its delays in handling his claim and complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Admirals valuation was fair and reasonable as it was the highest pre-accident market value 
for the car from the trade guides we use. She thought Admiral had handled the claim fairly 
and reasonably. 
Mr M replied that he thought the cars manufacturer-fitted optional extras would increase its 
value. He said Admiral had already paid him compensation for its level of service. Mr M 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr M lost his car just two weeks after he bought it. I can understand 
that Mr M wants a fair settlement for its loss. Our approach to car valuations is that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr M said similar cars were advertised at higher prices. But we dont find advertisements 
particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for 
this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling 
prices. 
Our investigator thought that Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how 
she came to this conclusion. I can see that she looked for valuations for Mr Ms car in the 
trade guides we use. She took into account the cars make, model, mileage, age, condition 
and optional extras. The latter didnt increase the valuation, which I think isnt unusual. 
The investigator found valuations in three trade guides and she took an average of them. I 
think this was in keeping with our approach. This average was slightly lower than the offer 
Admiral had made. It had offered Mr M the highest valuation it found in the guides. Ive also 
noted that Admirals offer was £180 less than the cars stated value on the policy, which I 
assume is what Mr M paid for it two weeks before the loss. So I think Admirals settlement 
offer was fair and reasonable and I dont require Admiral to increase it.
Mr M has explained that hes satisfied with Admirals response to his concerns about its level 
of service. So Ill not consider that further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman