DRN-3153654
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain because Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy. 
All references to Ageas Insurance Limited include the agents it has appointed to handle 
claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Ageas. The policy was
taken out in February 2020.
Mr and Mrs B travelled abroad to a country which Ill call A on 6 March 2020 and were due
to return to the UK on 28 March 2020.
On 15 March 2020, the government in A began to introduce precautionary measures
because of the Covid-19 pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO))
advised against all non-essential travel overseas.
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the
UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly
referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at
home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
Also, on the same day, 23 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs airline told them their original return
flight had been cancelled and no alternatives could be provided. Mr and Mrs B therefore
curtailed (cut short) their trip. They said they subsequently booked a new flight to return to
the UK, departing on 24 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs B registered a claim under their policy with Ageas for the cost of their new flights
back to the UK, as well as for the cost of a hotel they stayed in the night before their flight.
Mr and Mrs B have since said they also wish to claim for unused internal flights within A
because the airline they booked with has entered voluntary administration.
Ageas said only specific reasons for curtailment were covered under Mr and Mrs Bs policy,
and an airline cancelling flights because of government travel restrictions or the Covid-19
pandemic wasnt one of them.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said, although Mr and Mrs Bs
policy didnt provide cover for curtailing a holiday due to the FCDO advising against travel,
the policy may not have provided any cover if Mr and Mrs B had remained abroad against
FCDO advice. Our investigator said she didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs
B to be left in such a position, so she asked Ageas to reconsider their claim.
Ageas didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said its policy wording in relation to
curtailment was clear, and Mr and Mrs B had no cover under their policy unless their claim
arose for one of the specific reasons set out in the policy. Ageas also said it wasnt seeking
to rely on the exclusion relating to claims for travelling against FCDO advice in this case.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was referred to me and I 
made my provisional decision in October 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstance of Mr and Mrs
Bs complaint.
I understand the situation Mr and Mrs B found themselves in was completely unprecedented
and outside of their control. I also understand Mr and Mrs B departed for A before the World
Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic, and before lockdown was
announced.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Ageas
obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs B are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides for Ageas to pay for a policyholders unused costs if a holiday
is cut short because of one of a list of specified insured events. The Cancellation and
Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, at page 6, says Ageas will pay for certain
costs if a trip is cut short for one of the following reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding
or fire;
5. the policy requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at
your home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee
being ordered to return to duty.
Mr and Mrs Bs trip wasnt cut short for any of these reasons. This means their claim isnt
covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of their policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy, but I dont
think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in.Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Bs policy suggests they may not have
had any cover if theyd remained abroad against FCDO advice. She thought this left Mr and
Mrs B in an unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an
insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions
relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for remaining abroad against
FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim
outside of a strict application of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it
would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Ageas to do so here.
This is because the Cancellation and Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy also
says:
What you are NOT covered for
9. claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Bs claim. A
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions
both in the UK and in A  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs Bs
airlines decision to cancel their flights.
But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Bs trip was curtailed at a
time when restrictions on movement imposed by the UK government were in place.
So, not only are the reasons for the curtailment of Mr and Mrs Bs holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway. Id also point out that, even if I were
to accept that Mr and Mrs Bs claim was covered under their policy, the policy only provides
for Ageas to pay for unused costs that are not recoverable from any other source. The
curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy with Ageas doesnt provide for the
reimbursement of additional transport or accommodation costs if a holiday is cut short.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. I can appreciate this situation was not of their own
making and has had a financial impact on them, as well as causing them stress and anxiety.
I also understand Mr and Mrs B believed they were increasing their level of insurance cover
when they took out this policy for their trip to A. However, I dont think the circumstances
they found themselves in are covered under the terms and conditions of their insurance
policy and I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining their claim.
So, overall, I dont currently intend to recommend that Ageas needs to do anything further.
Ageas responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further comments. Mr and 
Mrs B didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or additional information, I see no reason 
to change my provisional findings. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman