DRN-4199620
The complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc has unfairly recorded a default on her credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss D had a student account with attached overdraft of £2,000. In December 2021 
Santander wrote to Miss D after regular credits to her account stopped. A follow up letter 
was sent later in the month and on 17 January 2022 Santander wrote to say Miss D had 14 
days to start regular repayments or banking facilities (including the overdraft) would be 
removed. As payments werent made in that time frame, Santander went on to withdraw 
Miss Ds overdraft facility.
On 30 January 2022 Miss D called Santander. At this time, Miss Ds account was around 
£900 into an unarranged overdraft. Miss D asked a number of questions concerning the 
recently removed overdraft and asked what she could do to resolve the situation and get it 
back. Miss D asked how much shed need to pay into the account each month and also 
asked about the status of her unarranged overdraft. The agent said there was no set 
payment Miss D needed to make and that if the account received regular credits she had the 
option of applying for another overdraft online. The agent also said there were no charges or
interest for being in an unarranged overdraft.
Miss D made a payment of around £200 into the account but further regular payments 
werent made. In April 2022 Santander wrote to Miss D and said she had 28 days to clear 
the outstanding balance or it would report a default to the credit reference agencies. Miss 
Ds explained she was abroad at the time and didnt receive the letter until her return to the 
UK. But by that point, the deadline had passed.
Miss D went on to complain to Santander and said shed discussed the account on 30 
January 2022 but had only been told to keep the balance below £1,000. Santander issued a 
final response but didnt agree it had given incorrect information during the call and didnt 
uphold Miss Ds complaint.
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ds complaint. They thought Santander had 
dealt with Miss Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss D asked to 
appeal and said that when she spoke with Santanders agent she was told the account 
would convert to an Everyday Account in July 2022 and that she was only advised to keep 
the balance below £1,000. As Miss D asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision as Ive reached a different view to the 
investigator concerning how to fairly resolve Miss Ds complaint. I havent been persuaded 
that Santander treated Miss D fairly. Ill explain why.
I dont dispute that Miss Ds account wasnt being managed in line with the account terms 
when Santander started contacting her and went on to remove banking facilities. The terms 
of the account required regular deposits to be received, but they stopped in the latter part of 
2021. So I havent been persuaded Santander acted unfairly by taking the decision to 
remove banking facilities, including Miss Ds overdraft.
My concern relates to the way Miss Ds call was handled on 30 January 2022. I appreciate 
Miss Ds account had been fairly restricted and that she was in an unarranged overdraft. But 
I dont agree with Santanders final response when it says the agent answered all Miss Ds 
questions. During the call, I heard Miss D ask various questions concerning the status of her 
overdraft, whether it could be reactivated by making regular payments, how much she 
needed to pay into the account each month and when the account would change from a 
graduate account. At one point, Miss D explained she was confused. Whilst Miss D may not
have specifically used the words How do I avoid my account being defaulted? Im satisfied 
she was trying to fix the problems that existed with the account when she called.
I found the agent to be inattentive and disengaged during the call. There were long periods 
of silence following reasonably basic questions from Miss D and what appeared to be 
sounds from the agents home in the background. The agent didnt answer all Miss Ds 
questions and only provided basic information about Miss Ds account. For instance, Miss D 
repeatedly asked about how to get her banking facilities reinstated as well as when it would 
convert to an Everyday Account. The agent advised the account would change in July 2022, 
but by this point all banking facilities had been removed. In my view, the agent didnt make 
the actual account position clear to Miss D. When Miss D asked about whether interest or 
charges would be applied to balances under £1,000 the agent correctly confirmed there 
were none. But Im surprised the agent didnt explain that Miss D would need to repay the 
balance in the near future due to the unarranged overdraft position. In short, I felt the agent 
missed several opportunities to ensure Miss D was fully aware of the status of her account 
and what she needed to do to stop it defaulting.
The situation was further complicated because Miss D was abroad when the default 
correspondence was sent by Santander. Miss Ds provided evidence of her return to the UK 
and Im satisfied that because she was abroad she missed the deadline to clear the balance. 
Whilst I understand this wasnt something Santander was aware of, Ive factored it in when 
considering how to fairly resolve Miss Ds complaint.
Following the default, Miss Ds account was quickly passed to a debt collector who made 
contact with her. The balance was then repaid by Miss D in full.
In my view, Miss D makes a reasonable point when she says Santanders agent failed to 
provide reasonable and clear information and advice when she called on 30 January 2022. 
On balance, Im satisfied Miss D wouldve made arrangements to clear her overdraft balance 
before Santander took the decision to apply a default if shed been given clearer guidance 
and information when she called. In my view, the default doesnt accurately reflect what 
happened with Miss Ds account and appears to have been unfairly recorded on her credit 
file. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to tell Santander to remove the
default from Miss Ds credit file and pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In my view, the payment of £200 is a fair reflection of the level of trouble and upset caused 
to Miss D due to the way her call was handled and subsequent default of her account.I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. No new information was provided. Both 
parties responded to confirm they are willing to proceed in line with the provisional decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information and both have confirmed theyre willing to 
proceed, I see no reason to change the conclusions reached in my provisional decision. I still 
think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to settle as 
follows:
- Remove the default from Miss Ds credit file and record her account as settled
- Pay Miss D £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman