DRN-3543172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society reduced the amount it was willing to 
lend them on a mortgage without explanation. This meant that in order to buy the house they 
wanted they had to go to another lender and pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to 
Nationwide. They would like that ERC refunded.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs C wanted to move house, so they contacted Nationwide to 
discuss the situation and options. They wanted to port their existing mortgage, plus 
borrow extra, and received whats called a Decision in Principle (DIP) indicating that 
Nationwide would potentially lend them £273,700. In September 2021, with their house 
sold and a new one lined up (Property A), Mr and Mrs C spoke with Nationwide again 
to progress matters. There was a mistake by Nationwide which meant that two separate 
representatives told Mr and Mrs C that their application was simply declined. Later that 
same day, a third Nationwide representative identified the mistake, corrected it, and 
ultimately a mortgage offer was issued by Nationwide on 29 September 2021.
At the end of October 2021 Mr and Mrs C contacted Nationwide to say that they had pulled 
out of the purchase of Property A, but had found a new house they wished to buy (Property 
B). As a result, the mortgage offer from 29 September 2021 was no longer valid, it being a 
new property under consideration at that point. When Nationwide provided a DIP on 
Property B, the most it was prepared to lend Mr and Mrs C was £258,700.
Initially this decision was appealed, but by 10 November 2021, Nationwides underwriters 
had confirmed that it would not lend Mr and Mrs C any more than £258,700.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs C took a mortgage with a different lender and paid a £7,000 
ERC to Nationwide in order to complete the purchase of Property B.
When Mr and Mrs C complained on 7 December 2021, Nationwide offered £250 for the poor 
customer service it accepted Mr and Mrs C had received on the phone in September 2021. 
The investigator looked at the evidence and thought Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong 
in dealing with this application, and that the £250 was sufficient compensation for the 
customer service issues. Mr and Mrs C disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
A mortgage offer is made against an identified property, in force for a specified period of 
time. Therefore, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it withdrew its mortgage 
offer of 29 September 2021 after Mr and Mrs C confirmed they were no longer interested in 
buying Property A. A full new application would be necessary for any other properties.
The DIP for Property B was undertaken on 8 November 2021, and declined the application 
for any more than £258,700. By 10 November 2021 the appeal on that decision had been 
rejected and Mr and Mrs C were aware that they would therefore need to choose between 
pulling out of the purchase of Property B, potentially losing money on professional fees, or 
pay the ERC. They chose the latter.
They feel they were given an inadequate explanation as to why, in the space of less than 
four months, the amount Nationwide was prepared to lend them went down by about 5%. 
Despite no change in their circumstances. I can entirely understand their frustrations about 
that, and from what I can see, I dont think Nationwide gave them what is ultimately a very 
simple explanation, which is that between the two DIPs, its lending criteria changed.
Mortgage lenders are entitled to change their lending criteria as they see fit, and do so 
frequently. The detail of those criteria is deemed to be commercially sensitive, and so not 
fully in the public domain. However, that doesnt mean that Nationwide couldnt have simply 
told Mr and Mrs C that it had made changes which meant it wasnt willing to lend them so 
much. This appears to relate to amended criteria around loan to income ratios. The second 
DIP wasnt reflective of changes in Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, or really any issue about 
Property B. It was reflective of changes in how Nationwide assessed applications.
It is unfortunate for Mr and Mrs C that those changes took place between the DIPs. But 
when a new property is being offered as security for a mortgage, it is inevitable that a fresh 
assessment will take place. I cannot say that Nationwide was unreasonable or unfair in not 
just changing the September 2021 mortgage offer to Property B. Nor can I say that it was 
unreasonable or unfair in changing its criteria and reducing the amount it was willing to lend.
I think that Nationwide could have handled this situation better and given Mr and Mrs C a 
transparent but simple explanation as to what lay behind the change in DIP. I can imagine 
the lack of clarity must have caused Mr and Mrs C to feel puzzled and worried about their 
plans and indeed their creditworthiness. However, I think the £250 already offered is 
sufficient compensation for the service problems.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Nationwide doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman