DRN-3316127
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the exchange rate applied by HSBC UK Bank Plc to an overseas 
monetary transfer into his account. 
What happened
Mr E transferred a large sum of Euros into his UK HSBC GBP account. However, when he 
received the money into his account, he felt that the amount received in GBP was notably 
less than it should have been. Mr E wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Es complaint. They confirmed that HSBC do apply a margin to currency 
transfers as per their operational policy, and noted that they could have provided an 
indication exchange rate for Mr E if hed requested it before he instructed the transfer, so 
that Mr E could have had a rough idea of the amount of GBP he might have received.
Mr E wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd processed the transfer and noted that the application of margin to a 
transfer by a business such as HSBC was a common practice under such circumstances.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr E might be disappointed with the amount of GBP received into his 
account resultant from the overseas transfer. 
However, I feel that it was incumbent on Mr E to have understood the nature of such a 
transfer, including that a margin would be applied to the transfer, before he instructed it. And 
I note that had Mr E contacted HSBC before instructing the transfer he could have been 
provided with an indicative GBP transfer amount that would have highlighted and confirmed 
to him the amount of margin that HSBC would potentially apply.
By instructing the transfer, Im satisfied that Mr E tacitly agreed to HSBCs terms surrounding 
the transfer, including the margin that would be applied. Indeed, the act of applying a margin 
to a transfer such as this is a common feature of transfers into UK current accounts from 
overseas sources, and I dont feel that HSBCs actions in regard to this transfer, including 
the amount of margin applied, deviate substantially from industry norms such that I would 
consider them to be unfair or unreasonable in any way. And Im also satisfied that other 
HSBC customers making similar transfers at the same time would have had those transfers 
processed in a comparable way.
I therefore confirm my position that I feel it was Mr Es responsibility to have understood the 
nature of the transfer he was instructing before he instructed it, and to have conducted the 
currency transfer from Euros to GBP via an alternative channel if he was unhappy with the 
way in which HSBC would themselves process it.
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr E here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
HSBC to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this likely wont be the outcome that Mr E was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman