DRN-4212609
The complaint
Mrs Z complained that NewDay Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs Z applied for a Fluid credit card account. NewDay approved the 
application and gave Mrs Z a card with an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was 
increased to £1350 in July 2021, to £2600 in September 2021 and to £3850 in January 
2022.
Mrs Z complained that NewDay had lent to her irresponsibly.
NewDay didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mrs Z.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said that the third credit limit increase wasnt 
affordable because of Mrs Zs financial circumstances at the time.
NewDay didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Zs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend. NewDay needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mrs Z could sustainably repay what was being lent to her.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders must have regard to 
things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and 
the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks carried out by NewDay prior to each lending decision.
Account opening
Mrs Z declared annual income of £27,656 when she applied for the card. She also declared 
unsecured debt of £10,200.
NewDay carried out a credit check. This showed that Mrs Z had three defaults, the last one 
having been registered over 22 months ago. The credit check showed no accounts in 
arrears, no payday loans and no CCJs.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate. 
The information gathered from the checks didnt suggest that Mrs Z was struggling to repay 
her debts or that she was overly reliant on credit. I think the lending decision was fair.
First credit limit increase to £1350 and second credit limit increase to £2600
NewDay hasnt provided information about the checks it carried out before increasing the 
credit limit. Given the significant increase in the credit limit and the level of Mrs Zs 
unsecured debt in relation to her income, I think it wouldve been proportionate for NewDay 
to carry out further checks to gain a better understanding of Mrs Zs financial circumstances.
In order to see what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown, Ive looked at 
Mrs Zs bank statements for the period leading up to the lending decision.
The statements show that Mrs Z had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments 
based on the increased credit limit. 
Ive also looked at how Mrs Z managed the account since it was opened. Mrs Z hadnt 
missed any payments and had regularly made payments which exceeded the minimum 
monthly payment.
Third credit limit increase to £3850
NewDay hasnt provided information about the checks it carried out before increasing the 
credit limit. Given the significant increase in the credit limit and the level of Mrs Zs 
unsecured debt in relation to her income, I think it wouldve been proportionate for NewDay 
to carry out further checks to gain a better understanding of Mrs Zs financial circumstances.
In order to see what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown, Ive looked at 
Mrs Zs bank statements for the period leading up to the lending decision.
The statements show that Mrs Z didnt have sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments based on the increased credit limit. So it was unlikely that she would be able to 
sustainably repay the credit. Because of this I dont think the lending decision was fair.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why I dont think NewDay shouldve increased the credit limit in 
January 2022.
NewDay should:
Remove any interest and charges incurred after 19 January 2022 as a result of the credit 
limit increase
Work out how much wouldve been owed after this adjustment. Any repayments made by 
Mrs Z since 19 January 2022 should be used to reduce the adjusted balance
If this clears the adjusted balance, any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs Z with 8% 
simple interest per year. NewDay should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Zs 
credit file in relation to the account from 19 January 2022 onwards.
If, after adjustment, an outstanding balance remains, NewDay should arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mrs Z. Once Mrs Z has cleared the balance NewDay should also remove 
any adverse information from Mrs Zs credit file in relation to the account from 19 January 
2022 onwards.HMRC requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. NewDay must give Mrs Z 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd must take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman