DRN-3041557
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi 
Financial Services, were wrong to pass her details to a third party to collect the debt and 
were also wrong to communicate with her when shed asked them to communicate with her 
husband.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs N has been represented by her husband during this complaint but as Mrs N is named on 
the finance agreement, and for ease, I will refer only to Mrs N in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs N, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs N acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I can see that some of Mrs Ns original complaint was made out of time. The investigator has 
explained that we are not able to review those and has set out the aspects of Mrs Ns 
complaint that we are able to look at. I would agree with the investigators comments about 
what this service is able to consider. I think we can consider the issues Ive listed in the top 
section of this decision under The complaint.
The terms of the finance agreement allowed VWFS to disclose data collected about Mrs N to 
a third party and to grant that third party rights to receive amounts owed to them by Mrs N. 
So, I dont think VWFS were wrong to pass on Mrs Ns details to the debt collection company 
they used.
And, as Mrs N was their customer they would need to communicate with her and not her 
husband about important issues such as defaults on the account. So, whilst I appreciate Mrs 
N was going through a difficult time, I dont think VWFS were wrong to contact her directly on 
occasion.
Im not therefore persuaded that VWFS have done anything wrong here or need to take any 
further action.
I understand that Mrs N is disappointed that shes not been able to discuss her complaint 
with this service. I can see that the investigator made several attempts to contact her by 
phone and by email and I can also see that Mrs N has been given an opportunity to provide 
any further evidence she wished to supply since the investigator provided her view on this 
complaint. I think Mrs N has been provided with sufficient opportunity to provide her views on 
this matter and I dont think theres evidence that shes been disadvantaged. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman