DRN-2313193
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr W a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr W took out three loans at different times with Nationwide. The first loan started in 
June 1998, and this was rescheduled and increased in May 1999, and again in August 2000. 
Each time PPI was included, as a single premium  the cost was added to the overall loan, 
thereby incurring interest. 
Mrs and Mr W told us, We were both in secure employment with good sick pay schemes, 
and payment protection insurance would not have been a priority. We are sure that given a 
choice we would not have chosen it.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr W disagreed and so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will explain why. 
Mrs and Mr W say they are sure they wouldnt have agreed to take PPI, and so must have 
been told it wasnt optional. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to decide this happened, 
unless there is reasonable supporting evidence of it. 
Mrs and Mr W have said they cant remember everything from the time  for example the 
reasons for the loans. And it wouldnt be surprising if someone forgot some details of what 
happened so many years ago. Mrs and Mr W are sure now that they wouldnt have chosen 
to take PPI; but, roughly 20 years ago when this all happened, I cant be sure they wouldnt 
have had a different attitude. So I cant fairly rely on what they now think, even though I feel 
sure theyre genuine in what theyve said. 
The loans appear to have been sold as a result of phone calls. The evidence is incomplete, 
which isnt surprising as this happened so long ago. But, based on the form staff would 
probably have filled in, we have some evidence that Nationwide guided staff to discuss the 
PPI with customers during the sales call; and then to record whether the customer had 
chosen to take it. 
Also, the loan documents themselves, which were sent to Mrs and Mr W to sign, do describe 
the PPI as optional  although I accept that, at that stage of the process, it would have 
been more difficult for Mrs and Mr W to say they didnt want it. 
However, overall I dont have enough evidence to fairly say the PPI was presented as 
compulsory, or that Mrs and Mr W were not given a genuine choice. 
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr W, in the sense of assessing 
their individual circumstances and making sure the PPI was suitable for their needs. But it 
still had to give Mrs and Mr W enough information for them to make an informed choice. 
It looks as though the costs were set out reasonably well, but I dont know what other 
information was given. So Ive thought about whether, in their circumstances, its likely that 
certain information would have led to them not taking the PPI. But, although I cant be sure, I 
think its unlikely that it would have. This is because:
It looks as though none of the significant exclusions applied to Mr W (the person 
covered by the policies); and
The benefits would potentially have paid out for longer than Mr Ws employer sick 
pay would have lasted, and it appears Mrs and Mr W didnt have significant other 
means to fall back on. 
On balance, I think Mrs and Mr W werent mis-sold PPI by Nationwide.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman