DRN-3214564
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with and settled a claim she 
reported for damage to her mobile telephone, rug and laminate flooring.
Mrs H is represented by her daughter in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs H directly.
What happened
In September 2020, Mrs H purchased an annual household insurance, which is provided by 
AXA. Her policy covered her for damage to her buildings and accidental damage to contents 
within her home. 
On 25 August 2021, Mrs H was in her garden while her mobile telephone was charging in 
her living room. Whilst charging, the battery exploded and was ejected from the phone 
casing, scorching a rug and click-together laminate flooring underneath as it landed.
Mrs H contacted AXA on 27 August 2021in order to claim for the damage caused. AXA 
logged the claim and considered it. Bit it declined to cover the mobile phone as it said 
electrical failure was excluded from Mrs Hs policy. It also stated it could replace the rug but 
not the laminate flooring  as the latter was considered to fall under buildings insurance for 
which Mrs H didnt have the benefit of accidental cover.
Mrs H disagreed with how AXA was intending to settle her claim and complained. She 
thought the laminate flooring was contents and informed AXA that the excess applicable to 
the claim meant it wasnt worthwhile to claim only for a rug.  
AXA investigated Mrs Hs concerns, but it didnt uphold her complaint as it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. Being dissatisfied with AXAs response to her complaint, Mrs H 
referred it to our service and asked us to assess whether her claim had been fairly decided.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by Mrs H and AXA and initially didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. But after Mrs H provided images of the flooring the 
investigator thought the laminate flooring should be considered as contents and directed 
AXA to reconsider this claim. AXA disagreed with our investigators interpretation of Mrs Hs 
policy. It stated there was beading evident in some of the images it had seen and that, 
because the flooring went under the skirting board, this would mean it was covered by 
buildings insurance.
Our investigator reconsidered the submissions received following their second view of this 
complaint and invited Mrs H to provide video evidence showing that the laminate flooring 
could be easily removed. But this evidence wasnt received by our service. So, our 
investigator reverted to their original view of this complaint and informed all parties that they 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H wasnt happy with how our investigator had assessed her complaint and asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for an independent review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I want to assure both Mrs H and AXA 
that Ive read carefully considered all the information theyve sent us. I hope theyll 
understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint  namely whether AXA acted 
reasonably in declining this claim.
The crux of this complaint is whether AXA made a mistake, or treated Mrs H unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having carefully considered all the available 
evidence, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed by 
this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Its not in dispute that damage was caused to Mrs Hs flooring and rug accidentally as a 
result of the mobile telephone exploding whilst charging. However, theres a disagreement 
between Mrs H and AXA about whether its acted reasonably in declining to cover the 
damage reported. 
There are three parts to Mrs Hs complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
Mobile telephone
The insurance policy Mrs H held covered her for damage to her contents. However, damage 
caused accidentally by items which have suffered mechanical or electrical breakdown or 
which have suffered natural and inevitable failure due to wear and tear is excluded.
AXA states it asked Mrs H whether any flames were seen when the battery exploded. But 
Mrs H was outside at the time of the incident and stated she didnt believe thered have 
been any flames based on the damage caused. 
Its clear that AXA was considering whether it could cover the damage Mrs H reported under 
the fire peril, which was appropriate given the circumstances of the claim. However, given 
the absence of flames I think it was reasonable for AXA to decline to consider the claim 
under this peril and look to cover the damage under the accidental damage clause instead.
Mrs H told our investigator that her mobile telephone wasnt new and hadnt experienced 
any issues previously. She stated her telephone had been sent away for inspection. But, as 
a report hasnt been provided to our service, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
that the cause of exploding battery was anything other than either mechanical or electrical 
breakdown or age-related failure. So, I cant tell AXA to cover a claim for the phone.
Laminate flooring
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint, when Mrs H purchased her policy she 
opted to take out both buildings and contents insurance. But she only selected accidental 
damage cover for her contents. So, if damage is caused accidentally to an item that is 
considered as buildings (as per the policy terms and conditions) I cant fairly direct AXA to 
cover the claim.The terms and conditions of the policy Mrs H holds clearly outline how AXA deals with 
claims involving damage to buildings and contents. In relation to buildings claims, the terms 
state:
When we use the defined word buildings, we mean the structure of the home including 
fixtures and fittings and the following if they form part of the property:
Laminate, wooden effect or vinyl floor covering that could not reasonably be removed 
and re-used.
Mrs H disagrees that the damage to her flooring should be considered under the buildings 
section of their policy. She gave AXA, and our investigator, detailed information about how 
her damaged flooring had been installed. She stated there isnt any beading around the 
edge and it isnt nailed or glued. So, she says her flooring is removeable and this would 
allow it to be taken up if it ever needed to be used in another property. She believes that this, 
and the way in which the flooring was installed, means it should be covered by her contents 
insurance policy for which she has the benefit of full accidental cover.
As our investigator explained, the onus is on Mrs H to show that the flooring can be easily 
removed and re-used. Im satisfied theres no beading around the edging of the flooring. But 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that the flooring in question could be easily 
removed and re-used. And the fact that the flooring is fitted underneath the skirting board 
means that our service would consider it to be part of the fixture and fittings of the building  
even if it could be removed. I say this because our general approach when considering what 
items are contents is that if you were to upend a house, anything that would fall out is 
considered to be contents. Anything that remains in its place would be covered under a 
buildings insurance policy.
In this case, because the flooring is laid underneath the skirting board, theres no doubt it 
would remain in place if Mrs Hs house was upended. So, its right to say it would be covered 
under a buildings insurance policy. It follows that I could only fairly direct AXA to settle Mrs 
Hs claim for damage to the flooring if she held full accidental buildings cover, which she 
doesnt.  
Recording the claim
The final part of Mrs Hs complaint is about whether AXA acted unfairly in recording 
information about a claim she chose not to proceed with. 
As a result of the telephone call Mrs H made to AXA about the damage caused by the 
exploding phone battery, it recorded that shed suffered damage to her property and 
contents on its database. 
The terms of Mrs Hs insurance policy set out how AXA records and shares information 
regarding claims with other organisations. It states when you log a claim with us we will 
register the claim on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
Mrs H feels this approach was unfair  particularly as she chose not to continue with her 
claim because the policy excess was higher than the cost of the damaged rug. But, as our 
investigator explained, it isnt unusual for an insurer to record the details of any incident 
reported by a policyholder, irrespective of whether a claim is made or proceeded with.
Here Mrs H notified AXA that an insured event had taken place. Im satisfied this went 
further than any enquiry as, initially, she was intending to make a claim under her policy. In 
such circumstances, our service wouldnt say its unreasonable to record that as a claim.  AXA is required to record accurate information about claims and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that its breached the terms of Mrs Hs policy in recording information she provided 
about the damage sustained. So, I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably here and Im not 
going to ask it to erase any information about the claim.
I understand Mrs H feels very strongly about the issues raised in her complaint and I realise 
shell be disappointed with this decision. But for the reasons already outlined, Im not 
persuaded AXA made an error in assessing this claim. Its repudiation decision is in line with 
the policy terms and the approach our service takes when it considers complaints of this 
nature. Because Mrs H doesnt hold full accidental buildings cover, I cant fairly ask AXA to 
settle this claim. Im therefore not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman