DRN-4033869
The complaint
Miss H complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages (Precise) gave her a mortgage decision in principle. But when she applied, it 
took ages to decide, then turned her down.
What happened
Miss H applied for a mortgage with Precise in early September. She said she had told 
Precise about some difficult personal circumstances, which might affect its decision. She 
then received a decision in principle approving her mortgage. But then, when she applied in 
full, Precise turned her down.
Miss H didnt appeal against the decision itself, but she wanted to complain that shed paid 
£430 for this application, and she didnt get that back when Precise said no. She felt that if 
she was always going to be turned down, Precise shouldnt have taken this money. And she 
also thought Precise had taken much too long to reach its decision. 
Precise said that it had considered Miss Hs application in full, once it was submitted. It said 
she wasnt always going to be turned down for a mortgage - it couldnt have reached the 
conclusion that it did eventually reach, before it received more information from her, and 
carried out its more detailed considerations. 
Precise said it was taking longer to reach a decision at the time when Miss H applied, but it 
had clear timescales on its website then which were available for Miss Hs broker to see, and 
it stuck to these. 
Precise also said that the money Miss H has paid wasnt a fee it took, it was the cost of a 
valuation which it had instructed on Miss Hs property. Precise had booked that, straight 
away, and paid for it. So it wouldnt give Miss H this money back, it said it didnt have it any 
more.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Precise had acted in 
line with its service level agreement, and followed its own lending criteria, in the decision it 
made. Precise had asked for more information, and our investigator felt this was relevant to 
Miss Hs application. She thought Precise gave the application fair and reasonable 
consideration, and made the decision to decline the mortgage application on 31 October 
2022. Our investigator thought this was a reasonable timescale for Precise to have reached 
a decision. And she said the fee that Miss H had paid was non-refundable.
Miss H didnt agree. She said Precise knew all her circumstances before she applied, so she 
thought it had just cheated her out of £430. And she said her broker told her she would have 
an answer in 21 days. Shed relied on what her broker said here, and seven weeks is not 
reasonable when she was told 21 days. Miss H also sent us the decision in principle that she 
received, and said that she shouldnt have been declined, because all four of the points on 
that had been adhered to. Miss H said she deserved her money back.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Our investigator has explained that Precise isnt responsible for what Miss Hs broker told 
her. And I agree with that. I can see that Precise did have clear timescales for a reply to Miss 
Hs application at the time, and Precise met those deadlines. If Miss H was told that she 
would get a reply much faster, I dont think that was Precises fault. 
Miss H paid a fee of £430 when she applied. Precise said this was for the valuation on her 
property. Precise told us it had paid this money to its valuers right away, when the 
application was received, and the valuation was then done. It also said it sets out, before 
someone applies, what this fee is for, and that it isnt refundable. Precise has shown us that 
this is information which is visible to Miss Hs broker, and it said if Miss H wasnt told this, 
that wasnt its fault. 
I dont think its unfair for Precise to have handed over the money for the valuation to the 
valuers right away. It did say it would do this. And it has also shown us the valuation was 
done. Im sorry that Miss H has been left out of pocket, and I understand why shes 
concerned about this, but I dont think Precise has to pay this money back to Miss H.
Miss H said the decision in principle she got from Precise contained four bullet points that 
she had to stick to. And she said if she supplied all of this information, and adhered to these 
conditions, then she expected that the mortgage offer would be granted. Miss H said she did 
that. But Precise turned her down.
Miss H drew our attention to this part of the decision in principle.
This certificate does not constitute a formal Mortgage Offer which is subject to us 
being satisfied with the following:
1. A fully completed mortgage application form to include acceptable I.D., including 
proof of residency.
2. Any applicable fees and charges.
3. Satisfactory references in respect of employment and a satisfactory valuation on 
the property to be purchased or re-mortgaged.
4. Confirmation of all information supplied, and no change in circumstances.
I can see that this, read by itself, might suggest to Miss H that if she did all these things, 
shed get an offer. But this section isnt by itself. Above, it says this - 
Please note, our initial decision in principle is based on the information submitted and 
is subject to verification. It is also subject to a full assessment being undertaken by 
our underwriters after you have submitted the full application, and as a result we may 
change our decision (for example reduce the amount we are willing to lend).So I dont think Precise had made a promise to Miss H that it would lend to her, if she stuck 
to the conditions in the four bullet points above. 
Decisions on the risks of lending are, very broadly speaking, for lenders to make 
themselves. And here, I dont think this lender has been unfair or unreasonable. I also dont 
think it was always intending to turn Miss H down for lending  I think it gave genuine 
consideration to her full application, and turned her down once it had weighed up the 
additional information it obtained at that stage. So I wont ask it to make any payment to 
Miss H. I know that Miss H will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept
 or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman