DRN-3130144
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled a dispute on a 
purchase made using his credit card account.
What happened
Mr H booked holiday accommodation through an accommodation marketplace website (the 
website). It cost about $2,000 and was paid for using Mr Hs Tesco credit card account. 
Unhappy with the accommodation, Mr H complained to the website. The website refunded 
about $1,550 of the cost and offered Mr H a $150 voucher. Dissatisfied with this he raised a 
dispute with Tesco. 
When Tesco declined his request for a partial refund Mr H complained. When Tesco 
responded to the complaint it stood by its decision not to refund Mr H, but it did pay him £25 
compensation in recognition of some poor customer service. Mr H brought the matter to our 
service for an independent review.
The investigator thought Tesco had acted fairly. In her view a chargeback was unlikely to 
succeed based on the evidence Mr H supplied. And she didnt think Mr H had a valid claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) because there wasnt 
enough evidence to demonstrate a breach of contract or misrepresentation the part of the 
website. She did, however, recommend Tesco pay Mr H £50 (in total) in recognition of its 
customer service failings.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators recommendation. In his view hed supplied the 
information he was asked for and felt the customer service hed received had been very 
poor. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has explained there were issues with the accommodation, including, but not limited to, 
no heating, a lack of cleanliness and no parking space. Hes further explained the 
accommodation owners reaction to him raising these issues with the website was to 
confront him in an unfriendly manner and demand he leave the accommodation prematurely. 
I can understand why Mr H was disappointed with the accommodation/experience.
But Tesco, as the creditor, isnt automatically responsible for putting things right. In this 
scenario Tesco could pursue a dispute for Mr H under the chargeback scheme. Or consider 
a claim under Section 75.
Tesco has said it didnt attempt a chargeback as it didnt think one had a reasonable 
prospect of success. I think it was most likely correct. Ill explain why. 
The website appeared to have already addressed the matter through a refund and voucher. 
There would therefore have needed to have been an explanation for why this was 
insufficient, but Mr H didnt provide a full copy of his communications with the website, nor a 
breakdown of what the refund related to. Mr H (and his fellow guests) had spent some time 
in the accommodation, so a full refund was unlikely to be appropriate and a chargeback for a 
partial refund must be justified. 
Mr H says he wasnt asked to provide a full copy of his communications with the website. Im 
not persuaded thats the case though. I say this because Tescos notes suggest he was, and 
I can see in Mr Hs email of 20 March 2020 he said: Im presently gathering all the 
exchanges between [the website] and myself
Ultimately it was for Mr H to evidence his claim and for Tesco to decide whether, based on 
said evidence, a chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success. Based on the evidence 
available, Tesco decided against attempting a chargeback. I dont find that unfair or 
unreasonable. It follows Im not persuaded it was wrong for Tesco not to attempt one. 
Turning to a claim under Section 75. Mr H (the debtor) used his Tesco (the creditor) credit 
card to pay the website (the supplier). So Im satisfied the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship exists for a claim under Section 75. I should mention at this point that no such 
relationship between Mr H, Tesco and the accommodation owner (the host) exists. The fee 
charged by the website was over £100, so Im also satisfied the necessary financial limits 
have been met for a claim under Section 75.
Having established that there can be a claim under Section 75, I now need to consider 
whether theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of the supplier, which 
is the website, not the host. The fee paid to the website was for the use of the platform. But 
its also for the provision of a refund policy for when things go wrong, which includes things 
such as the accommodation not matching its description, special amenities/features not 
being provided, lack of cleanliness and health hazards.
From what Mr T has said, he experienced the relevant sorts of issues with the 
accommodation for the refund policy to apply. The website, therefore, needed to do 
something under the refund policy. So, if the website didnt act in accordance with said 
policy, it would have breached its contract with Mr T and under Section 75 he would have a 
like claim against Tesco as the creditor. 
However, the website has done something. Its refunded most of the cost and offered Mr H a 
voucher. Without fully understanding what the website has done and its reasoning for doing 
so, I cant fairly conclude it hasnt acted in accordance with the refund policy. And if I cant 
fairly conclude it hasnt acted in accordance with the refund policy, it follows I cant be 
satisfied its breached its contract with Mr H. Unfortunately, Mr H doesnt have a full copy of 
his communications with the website or a breakdown of what the refund he received was for. 
So he cant, in my view, substantiate his claim. In these circumstances Im satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for Tesco to decline Mr Hs S75 claim. 
Im aware Mr H is dissatisfied with the customer service Tesco provided when he asked for a 
refund. Tesco has acknowledged it could have done better, especially with its call wait times. 
The investigator recommended Tesco pay Mr H £50 compensation, in total, in recognition of 
its customers service failings. I consider this an appropriate amount in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mr H £50 (in total).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman