DRN-3484177
The complaint
Mr A complains that IG Markets Limited (IG) has caused him to lose money on some 
positions he had open in his account.
What happened
Mr A has a spread betting account with IG. He complained about the following:
- Fees he was charged in relation to a specific position he held were too high
- On two occasions Mr A accidentally closed a position and IG refused to reinstate it
- On 10 July 2020 there was a platform error that caused him significant losses
IG explained that it hadnt done anything to cause Mr As losses. It did accept there was an 
error in displaying the price of a commodity he had a position in but said this was clearly an 
error and was for a short amount of time. It paid Mr A £100 for the incorrect display but 
showed that Mr A had traded 13 times that day after that display error and didnt feel the 
issue was raised in a timely manner.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the commission Mr 
A was charged was in line with his agreement, and it is for Mr A to be responsible for his 
trades, so IG wasnt obliged to reinstate a position that he closed accidentally. The 
Investigator also said that it was Mr As choice to close his position in the commodity when 
there was an error showing. As he didnt contact IG at the time, and later made many more 
trades in the same commodity, there was nothing to suggest IG was responsible for him 
losing some of the profit he couldve later made. He felt the £100 was fair and reasonable for 
the short period where there was no price available for the commodity he had a position in.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. He felt the £100 wasnt 
high enough to recognise the impact the error had on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for broadly similar 
reasons. Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I first want to note there is no dispute about whether Mr A shouldve been allowed to trade in 
CFDs. Nevertheless, our Investigator considered the relevant information and felt Mr A 
passed the relevant checks to be able to trade. I agree having looked at the evidence that IG 
did enough to determine whether Mr A should have an account with it. Ill now address the 
key complaint points.
Fees
Mr A feels the commission he was charged for his positions in company T are too high. Ive 
seen evidence of the commission he was charged, and these were no more than $15 which 
is what Mr A agreed to for trades in the US market when opening an account with IG. So, IG 
hasnt done anything wrong in charging this.
Accidental closing of positions
Mr A complains about two occasions where he accidentally closed positions which wasnt 
what he was trying to do. I can see he contacted IG about this and it didnt agree to reinstate 
the positions. I can understand why Mr A wanted the position put right, but he is responsible 
for his own actions. IG explained why the closure of the position just realised the losses he 
had already incurred, but it wasnt obliged to reinstate positions that Mr A had closed. So, I 
dont find IG has done anything wrong in this respect.
10 July 2020 platform error
Mr A complained to IG that an error on the platform led to him experience losses in profit 
across three positions. He sent IG a screenshot and Ive also seen this. The screenshot 
shows two positions which are correct  so there are no errors displayed and any loss of 
profit was related to market movement. But one position  in a commodity  doesnt have a 
price attached to it. There is a dash rather than a value. It then looks like Mr As position is at 
a loss of £39,880 which is clearly an error as there are ten positions open at 3988.0 so its as 
if the value of the commodity was zero. As there is a dash and no value then I think its 
reasonable to conclude this was an error. In any event, when Mr A closed his position 11 
minutes later, he made a profit of £90.
He later traded 13 times in this particular commodity over the same day, and only after the 
price hit the peak did he bring the error to IGs attention. He has asked to be paid the 
difference if hed closed out his position at the highest price that day but to conclude that he 
wouldve closed out at the highest possible price is speculation. Mr A is responsible for the 
trades he has made, the screenshot he sent clearly showed an error as no price was 
displayed next to the commodity and it was his decision to close his position. And in any 
event Mr A was able to mitigate any losses by reopening positions afterwards. I dont find IG 
has done anything wrong here.
IG has acknowledged the temporary display issue did occur and has paid Mr A £100 
compensation for the distress this caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances given the error was short-lived and obvious (showing a dash rather than any 
price).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman