DRN-3545550
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Silver packaged bank account in August 2011, which they subsequently downgraded to a 
fee-free account in July 2013. 
Mr and Mrs C say that they had sold their home and had some money left over, which they 
say they were advised to put into a Silver account. They say they were led to believe that 
taking out a Silver account would support any new mortgage application. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Silver account 
had been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I need to decide what I think most likely 
happened based on everything that is available. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say that they were told that having a Silver account would help improve their 
ability to obtain a mortgage. Whereas Lloyds says that the type of account held had no 
bearing on an account holders ability to obtain lending, so says that its staff would not have 
said this.
Ive considered the competing arguments, but Ive not seen enough to say that its most likely 
that Mr and Mrs C were misled to believe opening a Silver account would improve their 
ability to obtain a mortgage in the future. For example, I cant see that Mr and Mrs C did 
apply for a mortgage with Lloyds around the time that they upgraded, or indeed at any point 
when they held the account  which is something I wouldve expected to see if that was the 
reason why they agreed to take out a fee-paying account in the first place.
I understand that Lloyds recommended the account to Mr and Mrs C. And at the time, it cost 
£7.95 per month, although I can see Mr and Mrs C received a discount on the monthly fee 
for the first few months. And the account included benefits such as European travel 
insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance.
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mr and Mrs C made claims on the breakdown 
cover and the mobile phone insurance. Mr and Mrs C have also said that they occasionally 
travelled abroad, so wouldve also been able to benefit from the travel insurance cover as 
well. Therefore, given all of this, I think that Lloyds recommendation was not unreasonable. 
And although Mr and Mrs C say that they only used the benefits provided by the account as 
they were already paying for them, based on all the evidence I have seen, I think its just as 
likely that they agreed to it because of the benefits that it provided.
I accept that during the application process Mr and Mrs C may not have been told everything 
about all of the benefits. But I think it likely the main ones wouldve been highlighted to make 
the account seem attractive. I also cant see anything specific from their circumstances that I 
believe wouldve put them off applying for the account, had they been given more 
information about the account benefits. As such, on balance, Im not able to say that the 
Silver account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman