DRN-1686783
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) provided poor 
service and paid out too much to a third party he was involved in a car accident with. 
Mr W is being represented in this complaint. For ease, references to Mr W include the 
actions and comments etc. of his representative. 
What happened 
In December 2018, Mr W was involved in a car accident. He says he clipped the back of a 
parked car, then veered to the other side of the road and hit a wall/bus stop. He was 
arrested at the scene, charged, and ultimately convicted for drink-driving. 
Mr W reported the accident to Advantage, his car insurer. He says it told him it would be in 
touch if it received any claims. In January 2019, it wrote to him explaining it couldnt cover 
his damages/indemnify him due to a policy exclusion for drink-driving. In July 2019, it notified 
him that the third party whose car hed hit had claimed for £6,505. It explained it had 
withdrawn indemnity  but had a legal duty to deal with the claim. So, it would be seeking to 
recover its costs from him. Mr W disputed the level of the claim. Advantage asked the third 
partys insurer (TPI) for more information about the costs. Mr W says it told him it would keep 
him updated and pass on what it received. But around November 2019, it told him it had 
settled for £6,505  which hed need to repay.
Mr W complained to Advantage about the lack of updates and the amount it had settled for. 
He thought it should have requested the police report. Advantage sent him £50 
compensation for not keeping him updated. But it said it had a duty to settle the claim  and 
it didnt have enough evidence to dispute the amount. It had relied on a valuation report 
provided by the TPI. Mr W referred the matter to our service. Our investigator thought it was 
fair and reasonable for Advantage to agree to the proposed settlement  and to try to 
recover this from Mr W. He didnt think the police report had a bearing on this. Overall, he 
decided £50 was fair compensation for the communication issues.
Unhappy with this view, Mr W has requested a final decision. He says he wasnt aware that 
Advantage would seek to recover costs from him until July 2019. And that it told him it would 
keep him updated about the TPIs claim evidence  then failed to do so. Hes told us this 
caused him a lot of stress on top of the financial implications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached. Ill explain why.
I know this situation has been very difficult for Mr W, and Im sorry to hear about the impact 
its had. My role here is to consider whether Advantage acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. 
As a starting point, Ive looked at what the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy say about 
what hes covered for. Ill highlight a few sections that are relevant to this case. Term four of 
the General Exceptions explains: 
you're not covered if an accident happens while you or anyone entitled to drive 
under your current Certificate of Motor insurance is found to be over the prescribed 
limit for alcohol in the country where the incident happens
Term one of the General Conditions explains: 
Your Insurer has the right to Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of 
any claim
And the policy goes on to explain: 
In all the circumstances listed in general exceptions and general conditions, no 
cover will be provided to you under the Policy. Instead, your Insurers liability will be 
restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Act or alternative 
laws that apply in the country in which the loss occurs. In such circumstances. 
Insurers may seek to recover from you, or the driver, any sums paid by the Insurer to 
discharge that persons liability, whether in settlement or under a court judgement.
Mr W admits he was over the limit for alcohol when the accident occurred. The policy terms 
make it clear that hes therefore not covered for the accident. The Road Traffic Act still 
requires Advantage to deal with third-party claims. But, as the policy terms make clear, Im 
satisfied its entitled to seek recovery of its costs from Mr W. 
I know Mr W feels strongly about the third partys costs. But what Im considering is whether 
Advantage acted reasonably in the circumstances. It sought evidence from the TPI before 
agreeing to pay. Im satisfied it was reasonable to rely on the valuation report it received, 
which was from the time of the accident and included photographs of the damage. It doesnt 
appear there was anything further available likely to challenge/outweigh this. As Mr W has 
told us, he doesnt have photographs from the scene.  No independent witnesses or CCTV 
footage were identified. And, as our investigator noted, its unlikely the police report 
commented on the extent of damage to the third partys car (to an extent that would 
challenge the engineers valuation report). So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Advantage 
to settle for the amount it did  as Im not persuaded that, given the information available, it 
(or Mr W) could have successfully challenged this. 
I have also considered the communication issues Mr W has raised. He says he wasnt aware 
costs might be sought until the July 2019 letter. But the third party didnt claim immediately. 
And the January 2019 letter explained that Advantage wouldnt be offering indemnity. So 
overall, Im satisfied Advantage communicated reasonably when first notifying Mr W about 
the costs it was seeking to recover. 
I appreciate the gap between when Mr W challenged the level of costs and Advantages next 
contact may have affected his expectations. But ultimately, he ought reasonably to have 
been aware that the matter wasnt fully settled. I also cant hold Advantage responsible for 
the time it took to get substantiating evidence from the TPI; I can only hold it responsible for 
its own actions (or those of agents acting on its behalf).That said, Advantage admits it should have done more to keep Mr W updated. Its given him 
£50 for this. I do appreciate how upsetting this incident has been for Mr W. I think a lot of this 
impact was unavoidable. Whilst Advantage could have been more proactive about providing 
the TPIs evidence, it would always have been disappointing to find out this had been 
provided. And, as addressed above, Im satisfied it was ultimately reasonable to settle as it 
did. So, in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that £50 is a fair reflection of the impact 
Advantages errors had on Mr W. 
Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr W, Im not awarding more compensation 
or directing Advantage to take any other action to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman