DRN-3140589
The complaint
Ms E complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc, trading as Cardiff Pinnacle, unfairly increased 
the cost of the payment protection insurance (PPI) premium for the policy that ran alongside 
her mortgage. 
What happened
On 24 June 2021, Cardiff Pinnacle wrote to Ms E to say that her monthly insurance premium 
was going to increase from £16.97 per month to £22.96 per month. Ms E said this amounted 
to an increase of 35%. She was in financial difficulties and could not afford to pay the 
increased cost. 
Ms E complained to Cardiff Pinnacle, but it rejected her complaint. It said that amending the 
cost of the premium was within the terms and conditions of the cover. It said the increase 
was largely because it was expecting an increasing number of claims because of the Covid-
19 pandemic. 
Ms E did not accept Cardiff Pinnacles explanation and so she complained to this service. 
She said that if Cardiff Pinnacle was going to see more claims, it should not take more 
money from its vulnerable customers. She said the decision to increase the premium was a 
business decision and was not a decision about how to help customers like her who were in 
need. Ms E then complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms E 
disagreed with that view. She said that to increase the premium by such a high percentage 
was disproportionate. 
As Ms E did not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been referred to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear that Ms E is having some financial difficulties, and from what she told 
us, I can see things have not been easy for her lately. 
I have considered at length what Ms E said and I have looked at her complaint with some 
care. Having done that, I am sorry to disappoint Ms E, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
It doesnt look as though Ms Es PPI policy was individually underwritten. In other words, 
what that means is that the price applied to Ms Es PPI premiums was applied to Cardiff 
Pinnacles other customers at the same time. The first thing I need to make clear is that I 
cant consider Cardiff Pinnacles pricing strategy. But I can look at whether Cardiff Pinnacle 
treated Ms E unfairly when it implemented its price increase. 
Ive looked at the policy document. Paragraph 9 says Cardiff Pinnacle can change the cost 
of the premiums, but that it must give Ms E at least 30 days notice. It also says it must not 
increase the premiums more than every 180 days. 
So, Cardiff Pinnacle wrote to Ms E on 24 June 2021 and it said that the new premium would 
apply from 1 August 2021. That means it gave her more than 30 days notice of the planned 
increase in cost. I can also see that it said it had not increased the cost of the cover for 
several years, so I dont think there had been another increase within the previous 180 days. 
While I appreciate Ms E does not agree, it looks as though Cardiff Pinnacle acted within the 
terms and conditions when it increased the PPI premiums. The price increase appears to 
have applied to all Cardiff Pinnacles customers  not just to Ms E. So with all of these things 
in mind, I cant reasonably say it treated her unfairly. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Ms E. But for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld her complaint. I dont need to tell Cardiff Pinnacle to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Pinnacle Insurance Plc, trading as Cardiff Pinnacle. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman