DRN-3990963
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P, who are represented by a firm of professional representatives (PR), 
complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Ltd trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) 
unfairly rejected their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The loan which is 
the basis of the complaint is in Mrs Ps name alone and so she is the sole complainant, but 
for ease of reference I will refer to Mr and Mrs P in this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought a holiday product (a trial membership) from a business I will call C in 
May 2009. The total cost was £3,995 funded by a deposit of £495 and the balance with a 
fixed sum loan from BPF. This was in Mrs Ps sole name. I gather this was repaid in 
September 2012. I also understand another holiday product was purchased which was 
funded by a loan taken out by Mr P, but this is not part of this complaint.
In July 2020 the PR made a complaint to this service setting out problems Mr and Mrs P said 
they had with the timeshare.
In summary, Mr and Mrs P said that:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to them and they had been 
pressured into buying it.
They had been told they would be staying in luxury accommodation, but this turned 
out not to be the case.
There was an unfair relationship as evidenced, amongst other things, by the high rate 
of interest charged.
They were led to believe the product would give them fractional ownership.
BPF didnt carry out a proper credit check before granting the loan.
The PR brought a complaint to this service before it had been made to BPF. We referred it to 
BPF.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought that BPF had acted fairly in not accepting the claim.
He thought that there were two potential claims Mr and Mrs P could have made under s.75 
and s.140A CCA, but both claims had been brought too late under the provisions in the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). He also explained that the issue of unaffordable lending was not 
within our remit at the time of sale.
The PR disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision. It said our investigator had understated the difficulties Mr and Mrs P had 
encountered with C. Also it felt an overly technical approach had been taken. It didnt believe 
the clock started running at the time of sale for a complaint to be made. It said Mr and Mrs P 
were not aware of the grounds for complaint until later and s 32 allowed for an extended time 
limit. It said that just because the loan appeared to be affordable didnt mean BPF had met 
its obligations. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Under s.75 CCA, BPF is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by 
the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr and Mrs P are making 
to BPF. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs P say that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr and Mrs P had to make 
that claim within six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreement  
which was in May 2009  because that is when they say they lost out having relied on false 
statements of fact.
As Mr and Mrs P first made a claim in July 2020, that fell outside of the time limit set out in 
the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs P had to make their claim within six years of when the loan ended - 
which was in September 2012. But it was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could the limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Mr and Mrs P argue that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond 
September 2012. S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and 
creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
Mr and Mrs P repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and BPF ended. As it was 
only the relationship between Mr and Mrs P and BPF that could be found unfair, limitation 
started to run when the credit agreement ended.
Unfair RelationshipThe LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
The PR argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider exists as the loan from 
BPF had been used to fund the timeshare purchase. I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this 
claim, not s.8 LA, as Mr and Mrs P are making a claim for sums recoverable by statute.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr and 
Mrs P repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and BPF ended. As it was only 
the relationship between Mr and Mrs P and BPF that could be found unfair, the limitation 
started to run when the credit agreement ended. As such I consider the claim was out of 
time.
S 32 Claim
Section 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent 
misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. It can extend the time the consumer 
has to raise a claim. However, I believe Mr and Mrs P have raised a number of issues with 
the product (over and above commission) in their claim/complaint and those issues could 
have been discoverable earlier. I consider that that they either had discovered or ought to 
have been able to discover that something had gone wrong within six years.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs P are able to rely on s.32 LA here 
either. For the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to 
show that the timeshare provider was acting as agent to them. I cannot see that its role was 
to make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan.
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the s.75 CCA 
misrepresentation and s.140A CCA claims were made too late. It is ultimately for the courts 
to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and Mrs P may have against the supplier or BPF 
has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those 
claims that Mr and Mrs P might have against the timeshare supplier and/or BPF have most 
likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into 
account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in declining 
the claims.
BPFs decision to lend
As our investigator has explained that at the time the loan was taken out and as this sale 
took place in 2009, they were required to be regulated by the Office of Fair Trading. The 
FCA took over the regulation of these activities on 1 April 2014 so they did not require to be 
FCA regulated at the point this loan was taken.
Mr and Mrs P say they were not asked for any information about their income and 
expenditure before BPF made its decision to lend to them. I am unable to consider a 
complaint about BPFs decision to lend to Mr and Mrs P in 2009 as such activities were not 
within our remit at that time. In any event I have not been given any evidence that 
appropriate checks were not carried out. Furthermore, I have not been given evidence to 
show that the loan was unaffordable.
I think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mr and Mrs Ps claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA 
as they were brought too late. Nor do I think there is evidence to suggest the lending was irresponsible or unaffordable.
The PR responded and said I had only considered the trial membership in 2009.  It said the 
loan wasnt paid off in 2012 and submitted an extract from a bank statement showing 
monthly payments of £108 and £357.91 to BPF. It also said that I was wrong to say that the 
LA meant that the time limit began when the credit agreement ended. It referred to s. 8 LA in 
support of this claim and also mentioned the case of Patel v Patel.
It asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman to decide if BPF was wrong to assert 
unequivocally that the claims were out of time 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our investigator issued his view on the complaint he said that a complaint had been 
made only about the loan taken out in 2009 and so I have only considered that loan. Indeed 
as I pointed out in my provisional decision another product had been purchased with a loan 
taken out by Mr P and that was a separate matter. I would add that I have not seen any 
claim made to BPF by Mrs P and no complaint was made to it prior to the PR making a 
complaint to this service. It would appear that PR has taken a rather unusual approach to 
this case.
The loan agreement which is the basis of the complaint shows monthly payments of £126.32 
and neither of the monthly payments shown on the bank statement is for this amount. Indeed 
the PR has not identified the account holder of the account from which these payments were 
made since it only submitted a photo of the transactions. I have been given no reason to 
conclude that the loan continued after 2012
As for the matter of the LA I believe the PR has misunderstood its application. The usual 
time limit for claims under s.140 LA is six years from the time the allegedly unfair relationship 
between the parties ended. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that, when 
considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit 
agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. The limitation 
period is six years. Furthermore, as I pointed out in my provisional decision I consider any 
claim would fall under s.9 and not s.8 LA.
My final decision
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs P may have against 
the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think 
any claim that she might have against the supplier and/or BPF has probably exceeded the 
time limits set out in the LA and I dont think its unreasonable to take this into account.
For the reasons set out, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds 
to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mrs P unfairly or acted unreasonably 
so I cant properly require BPF to compensate her or do anything else.
As such I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 Ivor Graham
Ombudsman