DRN-1697752
The complaint
Mr K complains about repairs that CIS General Insurance Limited made to his cars 
windscreen under his motor insurance policy. He wants £500 compensation and his 
windscreen redone. 
What happened
Mr Ks windscreen was hit by a stone and he called CIS for a repair. An appointment was 
made for the repairer to visit Mr K to replace the windscreen. On the day, the technician said 
he couldnt replace the windscreen due to the weather, rain. Mr K said he then had to drive 
to the depot for the replacement to be fitted and this took him several hours. He was 
unhappy with the service he received. Mr K said it wasnt raining and a neighbour had a 
windscreen fitted without trouble on the same day.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
weather conditions had affected the engineers ability to make the repair. He thought it was 
Mr Ks choice to drive to the depot rather than book an alternative appointment. And he 
thought the repairs had been carried out in a reasonable time. He thought CIS had 
reasonably apologised for its complaint handling, but he didnt think it needed to do anything 
further. 
Mr K replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the initial call Mr K made to CIS. Mr K contacted CIS repairer to report the 
crack in his windscreen. This was just before a holiday, and the call handler explained that a 
repair wouldnt be immediate. The agent said the car was still safe to drive. There was a 
policy excess of £75 which had to be paid before the appointment. I can see that this is set 
out in the policy terms and conditions. 
The agent offered a mobile appointment but said it was weather dependant and needed 
fairly dry conditions. He said if there was drizzle, a canopy could be used. He said the repair 
would take about 90 minutes. An appointment was made for two working days later. Mr K 
said he was happy with the customer service he received. 
Mr K said he didnt receive a text to confirm this appointment and he had to prompt this. I 
can understand that this must have been frustrating for Mr K. He also said the appointment 
was delayed, but I can see that it was still within the time arranged. 
When the technician attended Mr Ks address, he carried out an assessment and said he 
couldnt make the repair as it was raining. I can see that Mr K disagrees with this. But Ive 
seen the weather report for the day, and I can see that rain was reported. So I cant say that 
this assessment was wrong. CIS had already warned Mr K that the repair would be weather 
dependent. And so I cant say it did anything wrong in not carrying out the replacement then. 
CIS later explained that a canopy couldnt be used as it wasnt suitable for Mr Ks car. The 
technician offered to make the replacement at the depot. 
Mr K agreed to this. CIS later said that if Mr K had declined this, then it would have offered 
him an alternative appointment. Mr K then drove to the depot. Mr K said this was 120-mile 
round trip. But I think he agreed to this to have the repair made. And so I cant say CIS did 
anything wrong in offering him this alternative.
Mr K said he wasnt expected at the depot. Ive not seen evidence that the technician alerted 
the depot about Mr Ks arrival. But CIS said a technician prepared the car for the arrival of 
the technician with the replacement windscreen. This was then fitted in what I think was a 
reasonable time. So I dont think any errors caused by CIS caused Mr K any loss. 
I can see that Mr K was unhappy with some aspects of the customer service at the depot, 
but I cant comment on these as they arent regulated activities. 
So, in summary, I think CIS warned Mr K that the repair was weather dependant. The 
technician on the day assessed the weather as unsuitable. I think Mr K agreed to drive to the 
depot to have the repairs made. I think the replacement was then carried out in a reasonable 
time. So, although I accept that Mr K was caused some inconvenience in having to drive to 
the depot, I cant say this was CIS fault. I cant say that CIS did anything wrong in its 
handling of Mr Ks claim. And I dont require it to pay Mr K any compensation. 
Mr K was unhappy with how his complaint was responded to. Ive listened to one call 
between Mr K and a manager from CIS. I think the manager tried to respond appropriately to 
Mr Ks concerns, but Mr Ks behaviour prevented this. I cant say CIS did anything wrong in 
ending this call. 
Mr K was also unhappy that the bonding of the replacement windscreen is visible. But as he 
hasnt complained to CIS about this first to give it a chance to respond, I cant comment on 
this here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman