DRN-3747999
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wont refund money she 
lost as part of a romance scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again in detail. In brief summary, Ms C fell victim to a romance scam in September 2021 
after she met an individual (the scammer) on a dating app. 
After building up a relationship with the scammer over the course of six weeks, Ms C started 
to send money to the scammer for various purposes, such as import charges, medical bills 
and to buy a property. She made several payments totalling £109,000 over the course of two 
months, which she funded from savings, credit cards and personal loans. Ms C realised she 
had been scammed after speaking to a friend who contacted the police. 
Ms C reported the fraud to First Direct, but it refused to refund the money she had lost as 
she had authorised the payments. It said it had contacted Ms C in relation to the first scam 
payment she made of £35,000 on 13 September 2021 and read a scam warning script to 
her. First Direct said that Ms C confirmed the payment as genuine, so it said it wasnt liable 
to refund the money she lost. It also said the payments were not covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) as they were international payments. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think First Direct asked enough relevant 
and probing questions when it spoke to Ms C about the £35,000 payment she was making, 
and she thought it had missed an opportunity to prevent the scam. However, the investigator 
also thought that Ms C should share responsibility, so she recommended that First Direct 
refund 50% of the total loss. First Direct disagreed as it said Ms C didnt give honest 
answers so it couldnt have prevented the scam. As a result, the matter has been escalated 
to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it.
First, it isnt in dispute that Ms C authorised the disputed payments she made to the 
scammer from her First Direct account. The payments were requested by her using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by First Direct, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to 
be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether First Direct should have done more to prevent Ms C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. 
It is common ground that the £35,000 payment Ms C made on 13 September 2021 was 
unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically 
blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went 
far enough in all the circumstances with that intervention.
When First Direct spoke to Ms C on 13 September 2021, it read through a scam script, 
which was generic and did not mention anything specifically about romance scams or how 
they typically operate. So, I dont consider its script to have been sufficient enough to protect 
Ms C from the nature of the scam she was falling victim to. 
When Ms C was asked about the nature of the payment, she gave a vague answer saying 
she was sending money to a company that looks after her sisters interests, as she had 
been given a cover story by the scammer. However, it appears she sounded unsure when 
saying it was a company she was paying and also said I think I know what Im doing. Given 
the amount of money she was sending, and given the vague and unconfident details she 
had provided, I dont think this was enough information for First Direct to be satisfied the 
payment she was making was for genuine reasons and that she was not at risk of financial 
harm. Ms C also acknowledged on the call that it was not normal for her to send this amount 
of money from her account. 
I appreciate that Ms C did not reveal the true nature of the payment, and that she told First 
Direct she was not being scammed. But First Direct will have been aware that scammers will 
often coach their victims as part of a romance scam in what to say to a bank. So, it should 
not readily accept at face value when someone says they are not being scammed, 
particularly in circumstances where the cover story is vague and not particularly detailed. 
And in this instance, I think some further probing would have likely revealed that the reasons 
Ms C was giving for the payment did not add up and that something wasnt right. 
Ms C said she was paying a company, for example, yet was making an international 
payment to an individuals account. She also originally said the money was for a company to 
look after her sister, but on later calls for subsequent payments said it was for costs relating 
to a property she was renovating with her sister. So the reasons she was giving were not 
consistent. If First Direct had asked for further evidence to support the reasons given for the 
first payment, or for simple details such as the name of the company and what sort of 
services it was providing, Ms C has said that she wouldnt have been able to provide 
plausible or satisfactory answers, or any evidence, and it would have become apparent to 
First Direct that she was at risk of financial harm. 
I also note that Ms C appeared agitated and upset that she hadnt been able to make the 
payment online, which was another indication I think First Direct shouldve recognised and 
acted upon. The bank could have asked questions around whether anyone was asking or 
pressuring her into making the payment and could have also warned her about the specific 
risks of romance scams. 
Given Ms C was being asked to pay a significant sum of money to a person she had met 
online only six weeks prior (and whom she had never met in person), I think such a warning 
would have caused her to pause and question the legitimacy of the scammer. She could 
have carried out further research into romance scams, or even spoken to a trusted friend (as 
she did when the scam was revealed) and would have likely discovered that this was what 
was likely happening to her. In other words, I am satisfied that a sufficient warning to Ms C 
from her trusted bank would probably have exposed the scammers false pretences and 
would have prevented any of her losses to the scam. So, I will be directing First Direct to refund the disputed payments she made as part of the scam.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. And I 
have duly considered whether Ms C should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence, which Im satisfied she should in this case.
Ms C had been told by the scammer to give a cover story to her bank if she was questioned 
about the purpose of the payment. But if everything was genuine, there would have been no 
reason for her to give a different story. I think this ought reasonably to have alerted her to the 
fact that something wasnt right, but it doesnt appear she acted upon any such concerns. 
This also made it more difficult for First Direct to uncover the scam when it spoke to her 
(although I believe it could have still prevented the scam, for the reasons set out above). 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Ms Cs actions and failure to question why she was being given 
a cover story has contributed to her loss, such that she should share responsibility with First 
Direct, and Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading 
as First Direct) to Refund 50% of the money Ms C lost to the scam from 13 September 2021 
onwards. 
First Direct should also pay interest on this amount from the date of each payment to the 
date of loss, which it can calculate at the following rates:
For payments funded by savings, pay interest at the savings account rate.
For payments funded by credit card cash advances, pay interest at the money 
transfer rate.
For payments funded by loans, pay the applicable loan interest rate.
For payments funded by any other means, pay 8% simple interest.
Ms C should provide reasonable evidence to First Direct so it can calculate the correct 
interest to pay in line with the above direction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman