DRN-1758565
 
The complaint
Mrs S  complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked her account after she 
tried to make a transaction. Shes also unhappy that her son had to make multiple trips to 
the branch to provide identification documents to get the block removed and when the block 
was removed her debit card was cancelled
What happened
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by her son, Mr S.
Mrs S wanted to purchase a handset using an online payment platform. She called Halifax to 
obtain a verification code. Mr S asked if the payment would be okay and he was told it would 
be. After attempting to make the purchase, Mrs S discovered her account was blocked. 
Halifax told us that after she'd attempted to make the purchase it was unable to verify her 
over the phone so she was asked to attend a branch with identification documents in order 
to have the block removed.
After she visited the branch Halifax said it was unable to verify her identity because the 
name on the identification document didnt match the name on her account and it couldn't 
use her driving licence as it had expired.
The account was eventually unblocked when Mrs S provided further identification 
documentation but when the block was removed Mrs S found out her debit card had been 
cancelled.
Mrs S complained to Halifax. In its final response letter it said it didn't uphold her complaint 
about the block being placed on her account or about the branch not accepting her ID 
documents. However, it agreed that it made an error when it cancelled her debit card and 
it arranged to pay £150 by way of apology.
Mrs S isn't happy with the amount of compensation offered so she referred her complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He noted that the 
terms and conditions of her account allow Halifax to stop an account holder from making 
payments and to block a payment. He therefore didnt think Halifax was wrong to block the 
account. 
The identification documents provided by Mrs S didnt match the name on the account so the 
investigator didnt think it was wrong of Halifax to ask Mrs S to provide further identification 
documents. The investigator noted that Halifax cancelled the debit card in error but he 
thought Halifax's payment of £150 was generous in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive  come to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons . I realise Mrs S will 
be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss account. Im satisfied they make clear that 
Halifax may block a transaction or block an account where it has security concerns. So I 
dont think Halifax made a mistake here by placing a block on  her card.
I appreciate this was a legitimate transaction from Mrs Ss point of view but banks and 
building societies have a duty to protect their customers accounts from fraud and suspected 
fraud. I appreciate Mrs S says she contacted Halifax to give advance notice of her 
transaction but the terms and conditions of her account mean that Halifax can apply 
additional security checks where it has concerns and this remains so even though she gave 
prior notice of the transaction.
When an account is blocked I'd generally expect a business to let its customer know this is 
the case. I think  explained that it wasnt able to verify Mrs S over the phone so it asked her 
to attend a branch so it could verify her. I cant say this was unreasonable on Halifaxs part 
because as Ive explained above it has a duty to protect its customers accounts against 
fraud. 
The information available to me shows that when Mrs S attended the branch the name on 
the identification document she supplied didnt match the name on her account and the 
driving licence she provided had expired. I cant say it was wrong of Halifax to ask for further 
identification documents from Mrs S to allow it to verify her.
Halifax accepts that when it removed the block it cancelled Mrs Ss debit card in error. I 
appreciate that Mrs S will have been without a debit card whilst a new one was ordered but I 
can see from her account statements that she was still able to use her account and I've not 
seen anything to suggest Mrs S was financially disadvantaged as a result of this. It follows 
that I agree with the investigator that Halifaxs payment of £150 compensation is more 
generous than I would have awarded had the complaint come to me without an award being 
offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman