DRN-3387682
The complaint
Miss T complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Miss T took receipt of a used ten-year-old car in October 2021. She financed the deal
through a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo.
A week later the car broke down on the motorway. Miss T contacted MotoNovo and she
says she told them she wanted to return the car to them.
But MotoNovo say theres no evidence of Miss T making that request. The dealership fixed
the car at no cost to Miss T and MotoNovo say that theyve therefore done enough to put
things right for Miss T.
Our investigator didnt think they had. She thought there was evidence Miss T had asked to
reject the vehicle and she suggested MotoNovo should now allow her to do so and refund
her deposit.
MotoNovo didnt agree. They insisted there was no evidence of a request to reject the car
and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that there is evidence Miss T asked to reject this car but I dont
think the investigator considered the distress and inconvenience Miss T had experienced,
and I think there is evidence Miss T was without the car for a period. So, Im expecting to ask
MotoNovo to compensate Miss T for those issues as well.
Theres no dispute here about whether the car was of acceptable quality. MotoNovo upheld
that complaint in their final response. So, Ill not reconsider that matter.
What is in dispute is whether the car should have been rejected or whether a repair was
sufficient.
Miss T had a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if there was something
wrong with it. She didnt have to allow the business an opportunity to repair it but if she did
grant them that opportunity she couldnt change her mind later.
Miss T didnt have to put that request in writing. Im persuaded she did ask the business to
allow her to reject the car because Ive listened to the call she had with them on 27 October
2021 when she explained she wanted to hand the vehicle back. The business final response
also explained that Miss T had wanted to reject the vehicle and their system notes say that
Miss T had asked them to allow her to reject the car on 27 October 2021.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that MotoNovo should now allow Miss T to reject the car.
Theyll also need to refund any deposit Miss T has paid and they should add interest to that
refund as Miss T has been deprived of the money.
Miss T has also explained that she didnt have the car for about a month whilst it was being
repaired. The business notes show the car broke down on 27 October and Miss T has
provided insurance information to show she cancelled the insurance and reinstated it on 24
November 2021 when she got the car back. Im persuaded Miss T was therefore likely to
have been without the car for that period. Its not fair for her to have been paying for a car
she couldnt drive so MotoNovo should provide a pro-rata refund of her finance instalments
for the period 27 October 2021 to 24 November 2021. Theyll need to add interest to that
refund.
Miss T wasnt able to provide a job sheet for the work completed to the car. Shes explained
she asked for this on numerous occasions. She said she was therefore concerned about the
provenance of the turbo that had been fitted to the car and that she decided to get a safety
check completed by an approved dealership. I can understand Miss Ts concerns, and, in
the circumstances, I can also understand she would have wanted to get some reassurance
the repairs completed were satisfactory. I think MotoNovo should therefore refund the cost
Miss T incurred for the safety check.
Miss T has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes explained she wasnt able to
use the car for work and a courtesy car wasnt provided. Shes also had to escalate her
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier by MotoNovo. In
those circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay Miss T £200 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo
Finance Limited to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss T.
Refund any deposit adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of finance instalments for the period 27 October 2021 to 24 
November 2021. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Pay Miss T £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Refund the cost of the safety check on provision of the receipt from Miss T. Add 8%
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ts credit file in relation to
this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said Id look at any additional comments MotoNovo or Miss T provided but MotoNovo didnt 
respond to my provisional decision and Miss T accepted it so. So, Ive not had any additional 
information to consider.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information to consider so my provisional decision 
remains unalteredYour text herenow becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss T.
Refund any deposit adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of finance instalments for the period 27 October 2021 to 24 
November 2021. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Pay Miss T £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Refund the cost of the safety check on provision of the receipt from Miss T. Add 8%
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ts credit file in relation to
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman