DRN-3847246
The complaint
Mr R complains about issues with trying to pay his Barclaycard through the online banking 
app.
Mr R also complains that a DSAR wasnt raised by Barclays. 
What happened
Mr R complained to Barclays as he was unable to make ad hoc payments to his credit card 
using the Barclays online banking app. Mr R said this led to him being in debt for longer. 
Mr R has also complained that a request for a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) wasnt 
actioned. 
Barclays investigated the complaint and partially upheld it.  Barclays said its a known issue 
that the app doesnt allow payments from a third-party credit card. It went on to say that a fix 
was being looked into and it would send Mr R a text message when its resolved. In 
Barclays response, it gave Mr R links to other ways he could pay. It also gave Mr R the link 
to complete a DSAR request. 
Barclays lastly upheld Mr Rs complaint point regarding the telephone service and wait 
times. It said Mr R waited on hold and was then transferred with no warm handover. For this 
it credited Mr Rs account with £25 compensation. 
Mr R remained unhappy, so he brought a complaint to our service. Mr R said he never 
received Barclays final response letter giving the DSAR information. He also told us that he 
is unable to view his statements.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but found the £25 paid was fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. Our investigator found it most likely the first FRL was sent 
by Barclays, and it couldnt be held responsible if it wasnt received. Our investigator went on 
to say that alternative methods of payment have been suggested and the link to raise a 
DSAR request was provided. Barclays paid £25 for the poor customer service when Mr R 
called, and our investigator found this fair.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators outcome. He said it takes a long time to get through 
on the telephone numbers Barclays provided. Mr R went on to say he hasnt heard anything 
in relation to the fix. 
As Mr R remained unhappy, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Although I can understand Mr Rs frustration at not being able to use the payment feature on 
the app, Barclays have given him alternative ways to pay. These include payments direct 
from his bank account, using the telephone service and visiting a branch. I find these are 
reasonable alternatives. These methods are also listed on Barclays website when you 
search ways to pay your credit card. So, they were readily available for Mr R to find. 
Mr R has confirmed to our service that he is making direct bank transfers and has a direct 
debit set up. So, although this is not Mr Rs preferred way of paying, it is a similar alternative 
and will be coming from the same account that he intended to pay from. Im also satisfied 
that this method takes around the same time to action as a debit card payment through the 
app. 
I understand Mr R spent some time on one call and it resulted in the call being cut off. 
Barclays have acknowledged this failing in service and paid Mr R £25. Having considered 
the impact Mr R has said this had on him, I find the £25 fair compensation in the 
circumstances. 
Mr R asked for details of how to raise a DSAR request and these were sent in the Final 
Response Letter sent on 06 October 2022. Having seen a copy of the letter, I can see it was 
sent to the correct address and in line with all the other letters sent. Im unable to say why Mr 
R didnt receive this, but Im satisfied its more likely than not a postal issue rather than 
something at Barclays end. And for that reason, I dont hold Barclays responsible if Mr R 
didnt receive it. Mr R has confirmed he received the letter dated 19 October, and this 
contained the same information. 
Mr R is now in receipt of the alternative ways to pay and hasnt mentioned to our service that 
his unable to use these methods. So, Im satisfied Barclays have resolved the issue in the 
interim whilst the app is being fixed. Although Mr R has mentioned the phone service can 
take some time to get through, Mr R could try a different time of the day which may be less 
busy.   
Mr R has now raised an issue with his statements not showing on his online banking. 
Barclays has said this isnt something thats been raised, and it will need to be looked into as 
part of a new complaint. It will then need to be given a chance to respond to Mr R. I cant see 
from the information we hold that this was raised to Barclays as part of Mr Rs original 
complaint and so it follows that I find it fair that Barclays have a chance to investigate the 
issue. As Mr R has now moved his banking to another card, he can decide whether he still 
wants to complain about this. Barclays have also offered Mr R via our service the option of 
moving to paper statements. 
In summary, Im satisfied the £25 already paid compensates Mr R fairly for the issues hes 
faced. And I wont be asking Barclays to pay any more money. Barclays have reiterated that 
they will contact Mr R when the issue is fixed, although this may no longer be needed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman