DRN-4257073
The complaint
Mr S complained about the service he received from First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS 
Mortgage Network (PRIMIS). He said that the broker made a number of mistakes, that he 
had to sort out. He said this made the whole process extremely stressful for him.
What happened
Mr S applied for a mortgage with the support of a broker working under the umbrella of 
PRIMIS. Mr S said he was very unhappy with how things had worked out. He listed the 
mistakes his broker made.
Purchase price - The broker used the wrong purchase price for the property, confirming
affordability on the basis of a purchase price £10,000 lower than the price Mr S had given.
The broker then blamed the change of price on a monthly service charge, although this
wasnt the mistake that was made.
Total borrowings - When Mr Ss decision in principle (DIP) was declined, the broker
suggested Mr S apply for the next-best option. When Mr S checked with the lender why the
DIP had been refused, he found the broker had input the wrong figures for his borrowings
(this months rather than last months) and when this was changed, the DIP was accepted.
Mr S said he should be able to rely on mortgage experts to know which figures are required.
Loan lender - The broker listed the wrong lender for one of Mr Ss loans, and his mortgage
offer had to be issued for a second time, because of this.
Loan amount - The broker listed the monthly payment as the balance for one of Mr Ss
loans, and his mortgage offer had to be issued for a third time, because of this.
Help to buy bonus - The broker confirmed Mr S was eligible for a Help To Buy bonus, and
included this in the purchase calculations. Mr S then discovered himself that he wasnt
eligible for this, close to the time of his purchase, and he had to find this extra money.
Because of the brokers mistakes, Mr S said he had to find an extra £3,000 and he also had
to pay off one of his loans, before he could complete his mortgage. He said he also had to
take out a different loan than the one hed at first chosen, although he told us he now 
accepts that he isnt worse off because of this.
Mr S told us he wanted to be able to rely on the expertise of the broker when he made his
purchase, but instead he ended up doing most of the work himself, sorting out a series of
mistakes the broker made. He said this greatly increased his stress levels.
PRIMIS said it had looked into Mr Ss complaint, and it responded to each of his complaint
points as follows.
Purchase price - The broker was initially working on the basis of the fact find hed completed
with Mr S, before the memorandum of sale was available which confirmed the correct
purchase price. The change in purchase price meant Mr S didnt have the right debt to 
income ratio anymore, so he couldnt go ahead with his purchase. But because Mr S cleared 
a loan, and got a pay rise, he was then able to go ahead. PRIMIS thought its broker provided 
appropriate support at this point.
Total borrowings - PRIMIS said its broker had input the figures that Mr S gave him, when
applying for a DIP. It didnt think its broker had made a mistake. PRIMIS thought its broker
had done as much as possible to find out what had gone wrong for Mr S when the DIP was
refused, and noted he had then reapplied when Mr S supplied up to date figures.
Loan lender - PRIMIS accepted its broker had given the lender the wrong bank name on one
of Mr Ss loans. It said this shouldnt have happened. This caused a delay of about a week.
Loan amount - PRIMIS said Mr S asked the broker to amend the amount of his outstanding
loan. PRIMIS thought this was only to take account of his monthly payment, and didnt think
this change was required because of any mistake by its broker.
Help to buy bonus - PRIMIS accepted that its broker had claimed specialism in the field of
Help To Buy, so should have warned Mr S that he wouldnt qualify for the Help To Buy 
bonus. He didnt, and that left Mr S having to find a further £3,000 to go ahead with his 
purchase. PRIMIS didnt think it should have to pay Mr S this money, it was something he 
would always have had to pay, but PRIMIS did say he should have been told this earlier.
PRIMIS said Mr S had agreed to pay off his personal loan, to make the lending affordable.
He did have the option to consider a different lender.
PRIMIS said Mr S got a slightly higher interest rate of 2.19% over three years, instead of
1.84% over two years. But given the ongoing increase in interest rates, PRIMIS said Mr S
would be better off as a whole, when taken over the three year period.
PRIMIS said it had already refunded Mr Ss broker fee of £395, and it would now like to offer
Mr S a compensation payment of £250.
Mr S rejected that. He didnt think the conclusions in the complaint investigation were
correct, and in particular he thought PRIMIS should pay the £3,000 that he hadnt expected
to have to cover himself. So Mr S asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He did accept that PRIMIS
broker had made a number of mistakes and Mr S had received poor service. But he thought
its offer provided a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he had accepted that he wasnt worse off because of the slightly
higher mortgage rate over a longer period which hed taken. And he thought wed upheld the
rest of his complaint. But he didnt think the compensation amount was enough. He didnt
think that we should be adopting the same position as PRIMIS, that because he would
always have had to cover the extra purchase costs, as he wasnt eligible for a Help To Buy
bonus, that meant PRIMIS wasnt responsible for him having to find that extra money.
Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: Ill look at each of Mr Ss points in turn.
Purchase price  It does look as if Mr S gave the broker the right purchase price initially, 
and the broker then made a mistake about this. I think PRIMIS is responsible for this 
mistake.
Total borrowings  Mr S says he would expect his broker to be aware of whether a 
lender operates one month in arrears, for amounts of borrowings. I think there is some 
force in that argument, and I also note that it appears to be as a result of Mr Ss 
intervention here that the application was made again successfully, rather than Mr S 
having to take a less advantageous interest rate elsewhere.
Loan lender  Looking at the application submitted to the lender, this does appear to be 
a mistake by PRIMIS, which caused a delay of about a week.
Loan amount  Looking at the application submitted to the lender, this does appear to 
be a mistake by PRIMIS, which caused a delay of about a week.
Help to buy bonus  Mr S should not have been given incorrect advice on this at the 
outset.
I think each of the complaint points Mr S has raised with our service should be upheld. I 
think this series of problems has made Mr Ss property purchase far more stressful than 
it needed to be. And I think that means PRIMIS should pay a little more than it has 
offered.
Mr S wants PRIMIS to pay him the £3,000 that he only realised, late in the process, he 
wouldnt get from the Help To Buy scheme. Although I agree PRIMIS is responsible for 
a mistake here, I dont think this means PRIMIS has to pay Mr S all the money he 
unexpectedly had to find.
The approach of our service, when mistakes have been made, is to seek to put 
someone in the position they would be in, if the mistake hadnt been made. And here, if 
PRIMIS hadnt made a mistake about Mr Ss eligibility for the Help To Buy scheme, it 
would have told him at the outset that he wouldnt get any bonus from the scheme. So 
the position Mr S would have been in, is hed have known this earlier. Its not that Mr S 
wouldnt have had to cover that extra £3,000 somehow. Thats why PRIMIS, and our 
investigator, both said that Mr S would always have had to find this money.
Put another way, it isnt PRIMIS fault that Mr S didnt get the bonus. It is PRIMIS fault 
that Mr S didnt realise this, until late in the day. That means what PRIMIS has to 
compensate Mr S for, is the stress and inconvenience of only realising at a late stage 
that he wouldnt get a £3,000 bonus. I dont think it would be fair to ask PRIMIS to pay 
Mr S £3,000, to make up for that.
However, I do think that there are a number of examples of poor service by PRIMIS 
here. And in a number of cases, I cannot be entirely confident that these matters would 
have been resolved both quickly and successfully, without Mr Ss intervention. I think its 
likely, as Mr S has said, that this very greatly increased the stress of the mortgage 
application for him.
I think it was appropriate for PRIMIS to return Mr Ss brokerage fee in these 
circumstances. And I think that, in addition to this, a payment of £400 would provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied, to disagree with my proposed decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PRIMIS wanted to dispute the increased compensation Id suggested. It said Id noted its 
broker should have been aware that Mr S wouldnt get the Help To Buy bonus, as it wasnt 
available for the property he was purchasing. But PRIMIS said it had recognised this in its 
award, which it considered consisted of both the refund of fees its broker had made, of £395, 
plus the amount of £250 it then awarded. It said this made a total award of £645. PRIMIS 
said what I was doing, by increasing the compensation payment to £400, was providing an 
overall award of £795. 
PRIMIS said this took the award into a higher category, when looking at the guidance 
provided on compensation by our service. And it didnt think that higher category was 
appropriate for what had happened in this case. It said that its offer was already at the higher 
end of the band it considered to be appropriate in this case.
PRIMIS also challenged what Id said about the Help To Buy bonus. It said Id explained this 
would always have been a problem, but Id said Mr S would have known earlier rather than 
later if its broker had told him. PRIMIS stressed that theres no input from a broker when a 
customer takes out a Help to buy ISA. And Mr S would have had all the information he 
required given to him when he took out the ISA, or on the relevant websites after this. So 
PRIMIS said it was incorrect to say Mr S would never have been aware of this. He may have 
forgotten, but he would have had the same opportunity as the broker to familiarise himself 
with the product he had taken out himself. So PRIMIS said it recognised its broker should 
have been able to advise Mr S, because of how the broker had portrayed his understanding 
of Help To Buy, but equally Mr S could also have found this for himself.
PRIMIS also said its complaint response letter did confirm that not all the mistakes made 
were on the part of the broker. PRIMIS said the third offer was only issued because Mr S 
insisted on this, although there was no need for it. 
PRIMIS said it wouldnt normally refund a broker fee if a customer has used the mortgage it 
arranged to purchase a property. But here, the broker offered this back to Mr S, so he had 
received a refund, plus the £250 it had offered to recognise there had been some issues. 
PRIMIS thought this was positioned correctly, and it was struggling to find any reason why 
the increase of £150 should be applied.
I agree it is of course the case that information on the Help To Buy bonus, and the conditions 
for its award, would have been available to Mr S from a number of sources. But Mr S chose 
a broker who claimed particular expertise in this area, so I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mr S to ask this broker for this advice, or to rely on what he was told by him. I remain of the 
view that the main reason why Mr S only found out, late in the day, that he wouldnt get the 
bonus, was because hed been wrongly advised on this issue earlier, by his broker. 
PRIMIS also said not everything that went wrong was the brokers fault, and in particular, 
there was no need for the third offer to be issued. But Mr S said the monthly payment for his 
loan had been inputted as the total outstanding on the loan. Looking at the application 
document PRIMIS sent our service, it does seem to have a mistake on the outstanding loan 
amount, which is recorded as £43. The same amount is also recorded as Mr Ss monthly payment. So I did think it was likely that, as Mr S had said, the second offer was made on 
the basis of a mistaken set of facts. And thats why I do not agree with PRIMIS, either that 
the change was simply to reflect a reduction in the loan amount due to monthly payments, or 
that this change was entirely unnecessary. 
I note PRIMIS has also challenged whether Mr S ought to receive both a refund of the 
brokerage fee he has paid, and compensation. It appears to consider that both these sums 
are paid as compensation for Mr S. I dont think that necessarily follows, in this case. 
I note not all mortgage brokers do charge a fee for individual instances of mortgage advice. 
And that doesnt appear to be what Mr S has paid in this case, either. What Mr S paid is 
what this brokerage advertises as a lifetime fee  meaning that if Mr S wanted mortgage 
advice on buying a larger share of this property in future, he would not need to pay again. I 
understand Mr S was keen to increase his ownership of the property in future, so I think its 
reasonable to assume that this commitment to fee-free advice in future would initially have 
been of value to him, and something he would have expected to use.
However, in the context of the number of mistakes made in this case, combined with the fact 
that it does appear Mr S had to take a leading role in uncovering and correcting these, I 
thought it was very unlikely Mr S would wish to use these same services in future. So I do 
consider that a refund of this lifetime fee payment is appropriate here. 
Mr S also replied to my provisional decision, to say he accepted the additional £150 was 
reasonable for the disruption caused. But he said he couldnt accept that he wouldnt get the 
£3,000 back, because he didnt think he was left in the same position he would have been in 
if the mistake hadnt been made. 
Mr S said it wasnt that he didnt realise the mistake until late in the day, it was that PRIMIS 
gave him the wrong information from the beginning. And he said PRIMIS never corrected its 
mistake. He realised what had gone wrong, and told PRIMIS, avoiding the purchase being 
lost at the last minute due to the £3,000 short fall.
Mr S said if he had the correct information from the outset, he would have secured a larger 
loan. The late discovery of the mistake meant he didnt have time to do this and had to make 
up the short fall from his savings. If hed been warned earlier, he would still have had to pay 
£3,000, but would not have had to find it as a lump sum. He would then have had more in 
savings towards the expenses involved in owning a new property. So he said he wasnt left 
in the same position that he would have been in had the mistake not been made.
I understand Mr Ss concerns that choices which may have been open to him, if hed 
realised earlier that he wouldnt get a £3,000 bonus, werent then open to him later in the 
purchase process. But I dont think I can assume Mr S could simply have got a larger loan. 
Even if a lender would have been prepared to offer more, the provider of the shared 
ownership scheme also wanted to be sure that Mr S could afford all the commitments he 
was taking on, for rent, mortgage and service charges. I understand Mr S did have some 
difficulty passing this affordability assessment. So I think there must be some doubts over 
whether Mr S could have borrowed more, and still bought the percentage share he wanted. 
I also note that if Mr S had borrowed more, whilst he would have had more cash available 
immediately after his purchase, he would also have had larger monthly payments, and a 
higher overall debt. The mortgage offer he sent us suggests hell pay back £1.89 for every 
£1 offered, so if Mr S had borrowed more, he would then be worse off, in the longer term. 
For those reasons, I still dont think that it would be fair to ask PRIMIS to make a payment to 
Mr S of £3,000 in this case. I think the fairest outcome in this case remains the payment of compensation that I proposed. So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network must pay 
Mr S £400 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman