DRN-3515466
The complaint
N, a registered society, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reinstate its account.
What happened
N complains that its account was inhibited by HSBC and it was then told that it would be 
closed. N says that HSBC didnt write to the officers at the correct address or respond to 
contact. It wants the account to be reinstated.
HSBC said in its final response letter that it had been notified of a dispute between parties 
connected to N in September 2020. It would normally have sought to resolve this between 
those parties in branch. And if that wasnt successful it would have told N that it would need 
to pursue a legal resolution. As a result of the pandemic its business specialists were 
working from home and there were no appointments. An attempted change to the signature 
mandate by others wasnt allowed and it received information about concerns around 
payments being made from the account. And so, the account was first inhibited for these 
reasons. It offered to pay N £250 for the poor customer service in dealing with the dispute.
In addition, HSBC had written to N starting from November 2020 about a safeguard review. 
It needed to confirm information about N for regulatory purposes. It sent further letters to the 
address it had on file for N. And the requirement for this information would have been visible 
on a banner each time a log in was made to online banking. As N didnt respond it gave 
notice it would inhibit the account for this reason from 21 May 2021 and then close the 
account. There was no evidence of any fraudulent payments from the account and it set out 
for N the ongoing users with access to internet banking. HSBC said that the account would 
be closed but at that time the account had an overdraft.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more than it had offered to. The 
officials who were signatories to the account said that they didnt have access to the 
premises for N and so didnt see the letters. But the address for correspondence hadnt been 
changed to that of one of those signatories until 23 July 2021. And the banner on online 
banking would have been visible. Thats especially as one of the signatories had told this 
service that he had been logging on every day to online banking even though no 
transactions could be made. She said that points about the signatories trying to change the 
details for N and not getting a response seemed new complaint areas and she asked N for 
evidence about this so this could be looked into.
N didnt agree with the outcome for this complaint and wanted it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to be focussing on the key issues here to make a decision on the complaint. I note 
from what the signatories have told us that there was court action including about access to 
the premises for N still running up to April 2022. The account was first inhibited by HSBC as 
there was an unresolved dispute and I dont find that to be unreasonable. HSBC has offered 
compensation for poor customer service. And given the ongoing dispute and then the issue 
with the safeguard exercise I dont have a basis to think that this issue could have been 
resolved in branch with a different outcome as Ill explain.
The reason why further notice was given to inhibit and then close the account is because N 
didnt complete the safeguard exercise. Thats a process that HSBC uses to ensure it knows 
its customers and has correct information. Ive seen evidence that it wrote to N at the 
address it had on record about this. It says that the requirement was also shown as part of 
its process on a banner when N logged on. It isnt in dispute that N didnt provide this 
information. And HSBC gave it the appropriate notice of closure in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
I understand that funds were later received into the account of N which cleared the overdraft. 
And that a cheque for the balance of the account made payable to N was sent to a signatory 
on the account in May 2022.
The signatories of N reasonably knew that any post for N was going to the existing address 
which they didnt have access to. Ive seen evidence that the address HSBC had for N 
wasnt changed until 23 July 2021. I also think that the signatories had a reasonable 
opportunity to see the requirement for information when logging in online. So, I dont have a 
basis to say that HSBC made a mistake or acted unreasonably during the safeguard 
exercise. And HSBC has been clear that it wouldnt reinstate the account, and which is a 
matter for its reasonable commercial discretion.
I wont be requiring HSBC to do anything further than pay N the compensation it has offered 
if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc need 
do no more than it has already offered to, and which is to pay N a total of £250 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman