DRN-4125059
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains about what Society of Lloyd's did after it made a claim on 
its liability insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2019 a claim was made against R by a business (F) in relation to work it had carried 
out. R claimed on its liability policy with Lloyds and solicitors were appointed. Liability was 
subsequently admitted and settlement of the claim was agreed in January 2020. R then 
sought to make its own claim against F for unpaid invoices. 
F said the agreement already reached was in full and final settlement so R couldnt bring that 
claim. R said that settlement had been agreed by Lloyds and thought it was responsible for 
the fact it couldnt recover its losses from F. It said Lloyds should pay it the amount it had 
sought to claim from F.  
Our investigator thought Lloyds should have communicated the settlement to R prior to 
agreeing it with the other side. And he thought Lloyds should get a legal opinion on whether 
the settlement agreement did in fact prevent R from pursuing its claim. Lloyds didnt agree 
with his view but did obtain counsels opinion on the settlement agreement. That said the 
agreement wouldnt prevent R from pursuing its claim against F. 
I explained to R last month that we couldnt consider the actions (or inactions) of the panel 
solicitors whod acted for Lloyds. So any actions they took (or didnt take) when negotiating 
and agreeing the settlement agreement with Fs solicitors werent something we could 
consider. If the panel solicitors had contacted Lloyds prior to agreeing that settlement then 
there might be a question over whether it should then have sought Rs views on the 
settlement but they didnt appear to have done so. 
In any event the legal opinion Lloyds had now obtained explained why the settlement 
agreement wouldnt prevent R from pursuing claims against F. So even if there was 
evidence of a failing by Lloyds, I didnt think Rs position had been adversely affected by it. 
And so this wasnt a complaint I intended to uphold.  
In response Rs representatives said: 
R had raised the issue of the potential claim against F with Lloyds prior to settlement 
being agreed and had made clear it didnt want the claim settled until this was 
addressed. 
That information should have been passed on to the panel firm by Lloyds but wasnt. And 
if it had been the panel firm would likely have challenged the wording of the acceptance 
from Fs solicitor which referred to this as being in full and final settlement of all claims 
between the parties.
Counsels opinion wasnt determinative of what view a judge would take on whether Rs 
claim against F had been compromised by the settlement agreement. As counsel had 
been instructed by the panel firm this was not an independent or neutral report. And they 
continued to feel that Rs outstanding claim had been settled by the agreement already 
reached and so Lloyds should take responsibility for this. 
Even if that wasnt the case R was nevertheless vulnerable to a court finding that the 
claim had been compromised by the settlement agreement. And so Lloyds should agree 
to compensate it in the event such a claim was unsuccessful because of that agreement.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Lloyds has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In this case the policy terms do give Lloyds the right to take over and conduct in the name 
of the Insured the defence or settlement of any claim. So this does give Lloyds a 
contractual right to settle the claim how it chooses and it doesnt need the agreement or 
consent of a policyholder. 
But I dont think it would be fair for Lloyds to simply act without taking into account Rs 
position or other relevant evidence. And in this case, while it doesnt appear Lloyds had any 
input into the wording of the settlement agreement, I appreciate it was aware R had an 
outstanding claim it wanted to bring against F. Its not clear that information was passed on 
to the panel firm by Lloyds. 
R argues settlement would have been agreed by that firm on different terms if that had been 
done. But the panel solicitor involved has said while he wasnt aware of a potential 
counterclaim the offer which was accepted by him was in respect of the claim brought, not 
all potential claims the parties may have or look to make against one another.
If that was the basis on which the panel solicitor thought settlement was being agreed Im 
not persuaded knowledge of a potential claim from R against F would have led him to act 
differently. And if Rs position is that he shouldnt have agreed settlement on those terms at 
all that would be a complaint about the actions of the panel firm which, for the reasons Ive 
previously explained, isnt something we can consider. 
In any event the counsels opinion that has now been obtained is very clear as to why the 
settlement agreement wouldnt include any debt claim that R might want to bring in future. I 
appreciate it isnt determinative of what a judge might find but I think it is properly written and 
reasoned. And Rs representatives havent provided any contrary legal argument from a 
lawyer of equivalent standing. They are of course right to say counsel was instructed by the 
panel firm but I dont think that means his opinion shouldnt be relied on. Counsel will have 
been required to provide advice in line with his professional duties.  
So, as it stands, there isnt any clear evidence to show Rs position has been or will be 
adversely affected by the settlement agreement. If R does subsequently obtain further 
evidence which demonstrates a clear link between a failing by Lloyds and a loss to R, that 
could potentially form part of a fresh complaint. But I wont be directing Lloyds to take any 
further action in relation to the current complaint. 
R has also asked for some of the information referenced in counsels opinion to be disclosed 
to it. I dont believe thats information we hold so isnt something we can provide (and clearly cant be something I directly relied on in reaching this decision). R is of course free to 
approach either Lloyds or the panel solicitors if it believes theres information they hold which 
its entitled to see. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask R to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman