DRN-2207581
The complaint
Miss B says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss B took out a PPI policy in 1995 when she was applying for a mortgage in one of the 
banks branches. The policy gave her cover against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
She paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator first upheld the complaint, but after receiving further comments and evidence 
she decided not to uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Miss B that the PPI was optional, and she had to agree to 
take it out. Miss B says she was unaware it had been added to account, this was done 
without her consent. I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was 
described to Miss B. And Santander no longer has the paperwork from the sale. But this isnt 
surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. 
The bank says Miss B would have been given information on the policy and advised it was 
optional. She then would have had to complete a separate PPI application form and direct 
debit mandate to go ahead. Ive thought carefully about her comments, but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. 
So without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude Santander didnt make it clear to Miss B 
that the PPI was optional, and she didnt agree to take it out.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Miss B, so it had to make sure it was right for 
her. Based on his circumstances at the time I think it was suitable. I say this because:
She was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that 
would make it difficult for her to claim. So she wouldnt have been affected by the 
main exclusions or limitations in the policy. I have carefully considered Miss Bs 
representatives comments and reviewed Miss Bs medical records to reach this 
conclusion. They show that in the two year period immediately prior to the date of 
sale she had not sought medical advice for any condition that she wouldve expected 
to recur. And that was what this policy excluded. 
Miss B was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, 
but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and for up to 36 
months for each successful accident or sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months 
redundancy cover, this could have protected any lump sum redundancy payment 
from her employer giving increased financial stability at a difficult time. Given the 
consequences for Miss B of defaulting on a large and long-term debt secured against 
her home, I think the PPI would have been useful for Miss B if she was sick or lost 
her job. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Its possible it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same 
reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed 
Miss Bs decision. I say this as she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main 
exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Miss B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman