DRN-1933268
 
Complaint
Mrs W complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs W took out a store card in 1994. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs W £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs W was off 
work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld because they thought the 
policy wouldnt have been of good value for money in Mrs Ws circumstances.
AXA didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case explaining why I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. I asked both parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they 
would like me to consider. Neither party has provided me with anything further to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
As neither party has provided me with any further information or evidence to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings as set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint for the same reasons as those set out in my provisional 
decision.
I have copied my findings below from my provisional decision and they form part of this final 
decision:
 First of all Ive considered whether Mrs W would have been eligible for the policy. And based 
on Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of the sale, for example her age and her employment, 
Im satisfied Mrs W was eligible.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs W that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Ws consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs W says she wasnt aware she had been sold 
PPI. If she has been made aware, she says she wouldnt have taken it out because she says 
she did not need PPI.
I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mrs W 
and AXA have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. The credit agreement has a 
section for PPI. I can see that Mrs W was presented with equally clear choices to take PPI or 
to refuse it. Mrs W would have had to specifically select PPI if she wanted to take it out. And 
it appears that she did choose to take it out by ticking the relevant box. If Mrs W hadnt 
ticked to take PPI then I cant see that PPI would have been applied to Mrs Ws account at 
this time. 
So, while I appreciate what Mrs W has told us, based on what Ive seen, I think its more 
likely that PPI was presented as optional and was only applied to the account because Mrs 
W chose to take it out. It follows that I think Mrs W was aware she had been sold PPI.
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mrs W to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs W. So, for example, AXA didnt have to ask 
about or consider Mrs Ws existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mrs W.
But AXA did have to give Mrs W clear information so that she could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mrs W all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. 
So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs W off taking 
the policy out. 
The adjudicator concluded that better information about the costs and benefits of the policy 
would have put Mrs W off taking the policy out. This is because our adjudicator thought that 
Mrs W had sufficient existing repayment provisions (12 months or more in sick pay and 
savings) available at the time of the sale. 
Had it been the case that Mrs W had provided a consistent account of having this level of 
cover, I would have agreed with the adjudicator. But the information Ive been provided with 
is unclear and inconsistent which means I am unable to conclude that its more likely that 
Mrs W did have sufficient repayment provisions in place. 
For example, Mrs W initially appears to have told AXA that she was entitled to three months 
full pay followed by three months half pay from her employer if she was off work sick. But 
Mrs W told us that she was entitled to six months full pay followed by three months half pay. 
In terms of savings it appears she initially told AXA she had three to six months worth of pay 
in savings but then told them she couldnt remember the amount but that her savings would 
have lasted her for around 4 years. Since then shes told us that she had £10000 in savings 
 this would have amounted to less than a years worth of savings. I appreciate the sale took place a very long time ago and this may be the reason that Mrs W 
is unable to recall how much she actually had in savings. But the difficulty is that based on 
this inconsistent information, I am unable to conclude that Mrs W had sufficient cover in 
place, such that this policy wouldnt have provided good value for her. Particularly as the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ws existing means and on at least one reading of 
Mrs Ws sick pay and savings information, it would have done so for a longer period of time. 
And it would also have paid out if she lost her job. If Mrs W is able to sufficiently clarify her 
circumstances at the time of the sale with regards to her sick pay and particularly with 
regards to her savings then I could reconsider this aspect of the complaint. 
Ive also considered whether better information about the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy wouldve put Mrs W off taking PPI out. And I dont think it would have. This is because 
Mrs W didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy such as 
those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working arrangements. So, it 
seems like Mrs W could have made a successful claim under the policy if the need arose.
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs W at 
the time of the sale. And Mrs W couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if she no longer wanted it.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont currently think Mrs W was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman