DRN-2981550
The complaint
Mr T complains that Oplo PL Ltd (when it was trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans 
Limited) irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.(To keep things simpler, 
Ill refer to the lender as 1st Stop).
What happened
1st Stop provided Mr T with a loan as follows:
Date 
loan 
takenLoan 
amount 
receivedTotal 
amount 
repayable Loan 
termMonthly 
repaymentDate 
repaid
23
November 
2017£8,000 £13,376.4060
months£222.94 Ongoing
Mr T complained that 1st Stops affordability checks were insufficient. He felt that if it had 
done proper checks it would have been apparent that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable 
for him.
When Mr T complained to 1st Stop it said it had gone through Mr Ts income and 
expenditure and reviewed his credit file before lending to him. It was satisfied that there were 
no signs of financial difficulty and the loan was affordable and sustainable for Mr T. 
So 1st Stop didnt uphold his complaint and this led to Mr T bringing his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt think that 1st Stop shouldve provided the loan and upheld Mr Ts 
complaint. He set out the steps 1st Stop needed to take to put things right. 
1st Stop disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
1st Stop mainly said that the fact alone that Mr T was paying more than 25% of his monthly 
income towards servicing debt didnt automatically mean he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
In Mr Ts case, 1st Stop said his credit file was satisfactory and pointed to a manageable, 
stable financial position. Also that using the loan for consolidation meant that Mr T started to 
make inroads to his overall indebtedness and reduce the burden of debt. 
The complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. And having looked at the 
complaint afresh, I've come to the same overall outcome as our adjudicator. Ill explain 
why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Ts complaint.
1st Stop asked Mr T about his income and expenditure and took steps to verify his 
employment and the amount of his regular take home pay. 1st Stop also did its own credit 
checks to see how much Mr T was already paying towards servicing his existing debt and 
gain an understanding of his credit history.
I agree with our adjudicator that 1st Stops checks were reasonable and proportionate 
in the particular circumstances of this loan application. But, like the adjudicator, I dont 
think 1st Stop made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr T based on the information 
it had gathered.
I say this because I dont think 1st Stop thought carefully enough about what all the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Ts overall financial situation. 
1st Stop recorded a figure of around £1,448 for Mr Ts monthly earnings, an amount of £580 
in respect of his normal monthly living costs and it gathered information that showed his 
existing credit commitments cost him approximately £513 a month. It also took into account 
that he received a payment of £82.80 into his bank account each month.Keeping in mind that Mr T told 1st Stop he intended to use its loan to pay his overdraft and 
one of his credit cards, 1st Stop said this meant Mr T should still have had around £240 in 
total left over after paying its loan. 
I've taken into account that 1st Stop says its credit checks show that Mr T wasnt 
overdrawn at the bank when he took out this loan. And Ive considered that Mr T might 
also have decided to put some of the loan towards paying another card that had just 
exceeded its £3,500 credit limit as well as using the money as planned to clear a credit 
card that had an £830 balance. 
But in any event, 1st Stop was aware that Mr T would still be paying £383 per month on 
a hire purchase agreement alongside having to make the monthly repayments on his 
1st Stop loan. This would mean he was spending more than £600 each month on 
these two credit items alone  which was a large part (more than 39%) of his 
disposable income.
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that this would be such a significant 
proportion of Mr Ts monthly income that 1st Stop ought to have realised it was 
unlikely that Mr T would be able to sustainably repay his loan over the five year term. 
And, in these circumstances, 1st Stop should reasonably have concluded that it was 
not fair to lend to Mr T.
Ive thought carefully about everything 1st Stop has said in response to our adjudicators 
view. But bearing in mind also that the loan was partly intended to finance some home 
improvements I dont think 1st Stop could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this 
loan to Mr T wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts. 
And 1st Stop saw from its credit checks that Mr Ts total outstanding credit balance was 
around £27,200. So, (even if the loan 1st Stop provided had been used entirely for debt 
consolidation purposes), I dont think 1st Stop was able to safely say this wouldve improved 
Mr Ts overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his 
financial situation. I think the scale of Mr Ts debts, compared to the much smaller value of 
the loan, would suggest that he would inevitably remain extensively indebted. And if the total 
costs of servicing all his debt were properly taken into account I think 1st Stop should have 
realised that, in reality, making the monthly repayments for this loan would be beyond Mr Ts 
means.
I dont agree with 1st Stops conclusion that the fact Mr T made all his repayments on time 
and repaid the loan early means that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainably 
affordable - or that the absence of any indicators of serious financial difficulty in its credit 
checks means this loan was sustainably affordable for him. For all the reasons above, I think 
1st Stop ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely 
to help Mr T and more likely to potentially increase his indebtedness over the longer term. 
So, I am upholding Mr Ts complaint that he should not have been given this loan.
In coming to my decision, if I havent commented on everything that 1st Stop has mentioned 
thats because I have concentrated on the main points that affect the outcome. 
I havent seen anything which makes me think that 1st Stop acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr T in some other way. But as Mr T has been further indebted with a high amount 
of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied 
that he has lost out as a result of what 1st Stop did wrong. So, I think 1st Stop needs to put 
things right.Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr T to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr T shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
As I understand the loan is now settled, 1st Stop should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr T received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr T made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr T having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ts credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to deduct tax from this interest. 1st Stop should 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo PL Ltd (formerly trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans 
Limited) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman