DRN-2397186
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) is treating her claim as a 
fault claim and claiming costs from her following a car accident.
All references I make to Calpe include agents appointed to act on Calpes behalf.
What happened
Miss C was involved in an accident in September 2018 which she reported to her insurers 
Calpe. 
Calpe then wrote to Miss C and explained that her policy carried an all sections excess of 
£3,000 and that she would be potentially liable for any costs incurred in settling or defending 
any third-party claim made against her to the value of her excess. Miss C completed an 
accident report form and gave her account of the accident which held the third party at fault. 
The third-party insurer (TPI) wrote to Calpe and said they were holding Miss C liable. 
Calpe instructed a claim investigator who produced a report which identified there were no 
witnesses to the accident and no CCTV was noted while they were at the scene. The report 
considered the relevant law when deciding liability and concluded With no witness a 50/50% 
liability settlement may be prudent. The claim investigator sent Calpe an invoice for £180. 
Calpe and the TPI then agreed to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. Calpe chased the TPI a 
number of times to find out what the costs were for the third-party repairs. The TPI explained 
that the third party couldnt afford the excess, and it was unlikely the third party would have it 
before Christmas. Having not heard back, Calpe told the TPI they were proceeding to close 
their file. Calpe sent a letter to Miss C in February 2019 which said that their investigations 
were complete and it was their intention to close the claim as non-fault. They explained the 
reason for their decision was because the third party had failed to respond to their own 
insurer, so the TPI had closed off their claim. 
The TPI then wrote to Calpe in April attaching an invoice which showed the cost of repair of 
the third partys vehicle was £2,084.48. The TPI requested reimbursement of 50% of the 
total repairs plus excess. They requested a cheque for £1,042.24. They also explained that 
the delay was down to the third party being unable to afford the excess for some time. 
Calpe wrote to Miss C in June and said they had settled the claim on the best terms 
available to them in the amount of £1,222.24. They said the costs of £1,222.24, were broken 
down as £1,042.24 for third party damage and £180 for claim investigation costs. Miss C 
complained to Calpe and said she was confused by their letter because she had previously 
been told the claim had been closed as non-fault. She said it was unfair Calpe had reopened 
the claim without her knowledge. Calpe responded and said they had dealt with the claim in 
a fair and reasonable manner and didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss C. Calpe said they stand behind the position set 
out in the final response. Miss C told us that the debt had been sold to a debt collector. They 
wrote to Miss C and requested an amount of £1,442.24 to settle the claim. We asked Calpe 
why the amount had increased and they explained that the matter had been passed to a 
debt collector in October 2019 and they add 18% to the total amount owed to cover their fee. 
Our investigator felt that it wasnt unreasonable for Calpe to have reopened the claim and 
settle it on a 50/50 liability basis. They also felt it wasnt unreasonable that Calpe didnt 
explain to Miss C in February 2019 that they may reopen the claim if the third party got back 
in touch with their insurer. Our investigator felt that the £1,042.24 charge was reasonable but 
Calpe should deduct the £180 investigation fee from the amount the debt collector has been 
asked to collect. They also felt it wasnt unreasonable for Calpe to have passed the matter to 
a debt collector. Calpe agreed with the recommendation but Miss C disagreed so the matter 
came to me for a decision.    
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss 
C and Calpe on 2 November 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Policy terms
I can see from Miss Cs insurance policy that she is covered for any damage to third 
party vehicles. Under the section, Your obligation to pay/repay the Excess it says 
that if Miss C is involved in an accident where a third party makes a claim against her 
she will be liable to pay Calpe the amount up to the value of her excess. The policy 
goes on further to say that when Calpe make payments to settle claims against Miss 
Cs policy, they will let her know of the payments made and request payment up to 
the excess amount. 
Looking at the policy and its terms, it is my view that it does allow Calpe to claim the 
third-party repair costs of £1,042.24 so I dont think its unreasonable for them to 
have asked  Miss C to pay this. That said, the reason why Calpe are recovering this 
sum from Miss C is because they have settled the claim on a 50/50 liability basis. So, 
I will now consider whether Calpe acted fairly and reasonably in settling the claim at 
50/50.
 
The policy says that Calpe will look to settle any claim on the best terms available. 
Miss C and the third party held each other at fault. Situations like this do arise so its 
important for any insurer, when faced with this, to carry out detailed investigations to 
find out what happened and look for any independent evidence to support their 
insureds case. Miss C, in her statement to Calpe, mentioned a witness and also 
CCTV which she thinks might be available.
 
I have seen the report produced by the claim investigator and this shows they took a 
statement from Miss C, visited the accident scene and took photos and looked at the 
damage to Miss Cs vehicle. They also identified there were no witnesses to the 
collision and no CCTV was noted while they were at the scene. Miss C has said that 
her sister was a passenger in her vehicle and, while I cant see the claim investigator 
took a statement from her, I dont feel this was unreasonable or would likely have 
changed the decision on a 50/50 liability split. I say this because, the decision on the 
liability split was based on there being no independent evidence. The investigation 
carried out by the claim investigator covered all relevant areas needed to form an 
assessment on liability so I dont think Calpe have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
relying on this report and then agreeing to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability split. It 
follows therefore, that I dont think its unreasonable for Calpe to claim the third party 
repair costs of £1,042.24 from Miss C.    
Calpe have agreed to deduct the £180 investigation fee from the amount owed. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
   The policy also says that where any excess payments are outstanding, Calpe will 
pass the matter to their debt collection agency at which point further charges will be 
applied. So, while the policy does allow Calpe to take such steps, I dont think it was 
reasonable for them to do so on this occasion. I say this because, I havent seen any 
evidence that Calpe offered a payment plan to Miss C. I feel that wouldve been fair 
in the circumstances of this case as Miss C was being asked to pay a sum which she 
wasnt expecting to pay. Our investigator asked Miss C whether a payment plan was 
offered to her and whether, if one had been offered, she wouldve paid. Miss C says 
a payment plan wasnt offered and, if it had, then she wouldve complied with the 
terms of payment. So, given that I think the debt shouldnt have been passed to the 
debt collector without first offering Miss C a payment plan, Calpe should meet the 
cost of any additional charges raised by the debt collector and also offer Miss C a 
payment plan to help pay back the third party repair costs. Miss C thinks the debt has 
been passed to the debt collector rather than sold, so if this is the case, then Calpe 
will need to recall this debt to allow them to take these steps.
    
communication
There is a separate issue here around the communication with Miss C. She was told 
in February 2019 that the claim had been closed as non-fault, she was then told 
nearly four months later that the claim had been settled and she would need to pay 
£1,222.24.
 
I do feel its important to address Miss Cs understanding of the term non-fault. I can 
see she raised a concern with our investigator that the claim was settled as non-fault 
which she feels meant that she wasnt at fault for the accident. In the insurance 
industry, the term non-fault refers to a claim which hasnt led to the insurers paying 
out rather than a determination on liability. So, when Calpe explained to Miss C they 
had treated the matter as non-fault, it meant they hadnt paid out any money. 
I understand why Miss C was shocked at receiving the letter in June 2019. I dont feel 
it was unreasonable for Calpe to close the matter in February 2019 because, despite 
chasing, they hadnt heard back from the TPI about the repair costs. I also dont feel 
it was unreasonable for Calpe to reopen the matter when the TPI got back in touch a 
few months later to settle the claim. There was a third party claim outstanding and an 
agreement on how the claim would be settled so it was reasonable for Calpe to settle 
this despite the period of delay. 
    
While I am of the view that these decisions were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont think Calpe did enough to explain the position to Miss C when 
writing to her in February 2019. I can understand why Miss C felt the claim was 
finalised at this point, especially when Calpe said their investigations are now 
complete. While, they did point out that it was because the third party hadnt been in 
touch with their own insurer, nothing I have seen suggests that the third party wasnt 
ever going to get back in touch. 
Calpe knew there was a problem with the third party not being able to afford their 
excess and it was unlikely to be sorted before Christmas 2018. This doesnt suggest 
that the third party had withdrawn their claim or that they wouldnt be in a position to 
pay their excess and claim from Miss C at a later date. 
I feel Calpe shouldve explained to Miss C in February 2019 that they would have to 
reopen the matter if the TPI got back in touch with them with details of the repair 
costs. In addition to this, when the TPI did get back in touch with the repair costs, Calpe didnt contact Miss C immediately to let her know what this would mean for 
her. She wasnt contacted until over six weeks later.
 
Theres a general Financial Conduct Authority principle that firms should keep 
consumers appropriately informed. That hasnt happened here. I feel this point is 
important because, I believe that the situation where the third party would pay their 
excess at some point was always a possibility. It would have been good practise and 
in the spirit of the guidance to tell Miss C that the claim may be reopened. 
Additionally she shouldve been told sooner that the TPI had got back in touch. I 
therefore intend to uphold this part of Miss Cs complaint that Calpe didnt give her 
enough information. So, I intend on deciding that it would be reasonable for Calpe to 
pay compensation of £100 to Miss C for the shock and upset caused.
 
I understand Miss C wants Calpe to treat the claim as non-fault and not to claim the 
costs from her. For the reasons I have given, I wont be doing that in relation to the 
third-party repair costs. I do understand that Miss C will be disappointed by my 
decision and I do sympathise with her given that she has told us that she will struggle 
to pay this sum. I can see that our investigator has provided Miss C with details of 
another agency who might be able to provide help and support. 
  
So, subject to any further comments from Miss C or Calpe, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to partially uphold this complaint.
 
Calpe have responded to say they accept the provisional decision. Miss C hasnt provided 
any comments to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Calpe didnt provide enough information to Miss C when closing the 
claim in February 2019. She was shocked when she received the request for payment when 
she had been assured the claim had been closed. The prompt complaint by Miss C shows 
how upset she was by this and the content of her complaint email shows how completely 
unexpected this was for Miss C. Im satisfied that the combination of the unexpected news 
and the amount of the payment being requested  which Miss C wasnt expecting to pay, 
has caused her stress and anxiety for which compensation is merited. I find that £100 is fair 
compensation in the circumstances. Calpe have already offered to deduct the £180 
investigation fee from the amount being claimed. I think thats fair.
   
In addition to this, given the request for payment was unexpected, Calpe shouldve offered 
Miss C the opportunity to accept a payment plan rather than passing the matter to a debt 
collector. So, Calpe should pay any additional fees which have been charged by the debt 
collector and also offer Miss C a payment plan to help pay back the sum of £1,042.24. It 
must however be affordable for Miss C.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
must:
Pay compensation to Miss C in the sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused;
Deduct the £180 investigation fee from the amount being claimed;
Pay the additional fees charged by the debt collector; and
Recall the debt from the debt collector and set up a payment plan with Miss C to help 
pay back the third party repair costs at an amount which is affordable for Miss C.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman