DRN-2865521
The complaint
Ms W has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds decision to 
decline a claim she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021 Ms W made a claim to her insurer, LV for damage to a garage roof and a 
polycarbonate roof which she said was caused by a recent storm. 
LV declined Ms Ws claim as it said the damage was caused by wear and tear, which was 
excluded under the policy. 
Ms W asked us to look at things for her. She was unhappy with the way LV handled the 
claim. She didnt agree with its decision. She was unhappy that LV didnt explain in the 
policy that she should take photos of the damage before removing the roof or having the 
damage repaired. 
Our investigator explained that he thought LV had reached its decision reasonably. 
Ms W didnt agree. In summary she says the dates used to determine if storm conditions 
occurred are incorrect. She says she has been given different reasons as to why LV has 
declined her claim. She would like to reach a compromise with LV in order to settle her 
claim. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a claim for storm damage, we ask three questions to help decide whether 
an insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
Ms W first contacted LV on 17 February 2021 to report damage to her garage roof causing a 
leak. The agent asked Ms W what date she discovered the leak. Ms W said last Saturday 
which the agent established as being 13 February 2021. 
The agent checked the weather conditions for 13 February 2021 and told Ms W that no 
storm conditions had occurred, so her claim wouldnt be covered. 
Ms W said as she doesnt go into the garage very often, she doesnt know how long the leak 
had been there. The first time she discovered it was on 13 February 2021. 
The agent explained that the policy doesnt provide cover for maintenance or wear and tear. 
As Ms W reported the damage was discovered on 13 February 2021, I think it was 
reasonable to consider the weather conditions at that time. Weather conditions after that 
date arent relevant to the damage Ms W claimed for to the garage roof  as the damage 
had already occurred. 
LVs policy provides cover for insured perils such as storm, flood, or fire. These are one off 
events, rather than damage caused gradually. Ms Ws policy with LV says it will provide 
cover for loss or damage due to a storm. However, it says under its General Exclusions that 
it will not provide cover for damage caused by gradual deterioration or wear and tear. This 
isnt an unusual exclusion  as insurance policies arent designed to provide cover for the 
ongoing maintenance of a property. It is expected that a property that has been well 
maintained will be able to withstand strong weather conditions.
Ive checked the weather conditions in the week up to and including 13 February 2021 and 
havent found weather to constitute storm conditions occurred. So the answer to our first 
question would be no.
On 23 February 2021 Ms W called LV. She said a roofer had been out to look at the garage 
roof but couldnt identify the cause of the leak. As Ms W remained unhappy about LVs 
decision not to consider her claim, LV agreed to send a surveyor out to inspect Ms Ws 
garage roof. 
Ms W then explained that she had a polycarbonate roof that covers a patio and because of 
the winds over time, that had blown as well. Ms W said she was prepared to pay for that 
herself. On reopening the claim to inspect the garage roof, Ms W asked LV, the 
polycarbonate roof wouldnt be covered would it? The agent said if the damage is 
something thats happened over time, then it isnt something LV can help with. 
LV went on to instruct a surveyor to inspect Ms Ws garage roof. This took place on 26 
February 2021. By this time, Ms W had arranged for the loose parts of the polycarbonate 
roof to be removed. When the surveyor attended, Ms W asked him about the polycarbonate 
roof. As this roof wasnt part of the surveyors instruction from LV, he didnt inspect it. The 
surveyor advised Ms W to obtain a report from the roofer who had visited her property.
The surveyor provided several photos showing the damage in the garage, of the flat roof and  
the polycarbonate roof after the sections of concern had been removed. The surveyor wrote: 
Upon inspection, the (garage) roof is not damaged following a storm but is requiring 
replacement after gradually depreciating due to age. Storm winds were present at the 
time of the incident but they are not the dominant and effective cause of the damage. 
The issues relating to the flat roof are not typical of a storm but that of a lack of 
maintenance.So although the surveyor was of the view that storm winds had occurred, in light of his 
comments, the answer to the remaining two questions is no. And therefore I think LVs 
decision to decline the claim for damage to the garage roof was reached reasonably. 
In relation to the damage to the polycarbonate roof, LV told Ms W that the main reason why 
her claim for this damage was declined was due to it not being able to inspect the roof  and 
that Ms W had said the damage had been ongoing. Ms W had arranged for the roof to be 
removed due to concerns about safety. 
However, Ms Ws neighbour had video recorded the polycarbonate roof with the loose 
sections. Ms W says her neighbour recorded this on 23 February 2021 before removal. Ms 
W sent this to LV in April 2021 for their consideration. 
Having reviewed the footage, LV didnt change its decision. 
I understand Ms W is unhappy that she has been given different reasons for her claim for the 
polycarbonate roof to be declined. While she said in her call on 23 February 2021 that she 
would pay for the repairs, this isnt the reason why LV didnt meet her claim. 
Having checked the weather data in the week leading up to 23 February 2021, there were 
strong winds, but not sufficient to constitute storm conditions. And so, going back to the 
three questions we ask when considering if an insurer has acted reasonably, the first answer 
is no. And as there isnt any evidence that storm conditions were the main cause of 
damage, I dont think LVs decision to decline the claim for the polycarbonate roof was 
unreasonable. 
Ms Ws policy with LV says in the event of a claim:
You or any other person claiming under this insurance mustprovide us with 
information relevant to your claim that we may require to help us validate and 
process your claim such as purchase receipts, valuations, photographs and reports
So I think LV explained that it would need photos  along with other helpful information  in 
order to consider any claim Ms W made. 
Taking everything into account, I think LV properly considered Ms Ws claim. I understand 
how disappointed she is that her claim was declined. But I think LVs decision was reached 
in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. It seems that poor weather highlighted 
existing damage to both the garage roof and the polycarbonate roof caused by wear and 
tear. As damage caused by wear and tear is excluded under Ms Ws policy with LV, Im not 
asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman