DRN-3606229
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2017, Mr P purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr P financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In October 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ps behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr P to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate.
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr P or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
It is not reasonable to expect our client to have undertaken a comparison between 
the information provided to him by the salesperson and the information on the 
estimate.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and sales contract.
The sales contract is a one-page document which sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ps recollection of the sale, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.Sales contract
The original sales contract set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year 
benefits of the system as follows (just above where Mr P signed the contract):
 
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £7,775.00, which was to be 
funded by a 120-month loan. It refers to this as IKANO 120. I think Mr P wouldve 
understood this given he agreed at the same meeting to fund the purchase using the loan.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£156.06 and £204.40 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings.
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr P 
would use himself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each 
other on the order form, just above where Mr P signed, so these figures couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For a 120-month (or ten 
year) loan of £7,775.00, the repayments would be at least £777.50 per year before interest 
was added. This is significantly more than the highest potential benefit quoted of £204.40 in 
year one. I think this one-page document was an integral part of the sale and these figures 
would most likely have been discussed with Mr P during the meeting.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr P has alleged.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr P 
to enter into the contract for the system.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman