DRN-3817329
The complaint
Mr A complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly cancelled his policy 
and is pursuing him for third party losses following an accident, under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr A was involved in an accident when driving, where he collided into the 
back of another car. He didnt claim for damage to his car under his policy. But the third-
party vehicle was written-off and Calpe settled the claim. Mr As policy was subsequently 
cancelled because he didnt cooperate with Calpes request for information. 
Mr A says he was treated unfairly by Calpe. He says English isnt his first language and he 
didnt understand the process when making an insurance claim. He says he didnt initially 
receive the forms he was required to complete. And the advice agencies he approached, for 
help completing in the forms, didnt have any appointments available. Mr A says he told 
Calpe he needed help to understand the forms, but its agent told him this wasnt its problem. 
Mr A says he questioned why the policy was cancelled. He could understand why his claim 
was cancelled but not his insurance. This cost him more money to set up a new policy. Mr A 
says he wants Calpe to refund all his premiums from the inception of his policy in 2019 up 
until it was cancelled. 
Calpe says it contacted Mr A and provided him with its request for information and form to 
complete by both post and email. It says this information was provided on several occasions. 
It says Mr A only mentioned his understanding of English as an issue after the policy was 
cancelled, when there had been a number of telephone conversations where this wasnt 
mentioned. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He says Calpes policy terms allow it to cancel Mr As policy if he fails 
to cooperate with it in relation to a claim. However, he found that Mr A had told Calpe two 
days before it cancelled his policy that he doesnt understand English. He thought Calpe 
couldve assisted him or allowed an extension for Mr A to arrange help in completing the 
forms. 
Our investigator thought that as Calpe was aware of Mr As issue with English, and failed to 
make a reasonable adjustment for this, it wasnt fair for it to cancel his policy and pursue him 
for the cost of settling the third-parties claim.
Calpe disagreed. It says Mr A was made aware on a number of occasions that he needed to 
respond in a timely manner. It also says his correspondence post cancellation shows that he 
was able to understand its documentation. 
Because it disagreed with our investigator, Calpe asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read Mr As policy terms to understand what is expected of him in the event of a claim 
being made under his motor insurance. The relevant terms are set out under the heading 
Cancellation/Cooling Off Period. The terms say:
We, the Underwriters or Your broker have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by
giving You seven days notice in writing where there is an exceptional or valid reason for
doing so. The cancellation letter will be sent to the latest address We have for You and will
set out the reason for cancellation. Exceptional or valid reasons may include but are not
limited to:
ii) Where You are required in accordance with the Terms of this Policy Booklet to cooperate
with Us, or send Us information or documentation and You fail to do so in a
way that significantly hinders Our ability to process a claim, or Our ability to defend The
Underwriters interests We or your broker may issue a cancellation letter to advise You
and We will cancel Your Policy if You fail to co-operate with Us or provide the required
information or documentation within the seven day cancellation notice period.
If a claim has been made, We may cancel Your cover but not refund any premium. If You
are paying by instalments, You must still pay the remaining instalments.
I think the terms are clear that Mr A was expected to provide the information Calpe 
requested. If not, the policy can be cancelled. 
Ive looked at the claim records Calpe provided. I can see that Mr A contacted it by phone to 
report the accident on 18 October 2021. The call was cut off after some initial details of the 
accident had been provided. An accident report form was sent to Mr A by email the following 
day. Calpe then called Mr A back to obtain further details of the accident. I can see it advised 
him that a form had been sent and an engineer will be instructed to look at his vehicle. 
     
The records show the third party involved in the accident called Calpe on 21 October 2021 to 
make a claim. On 27 October there is a note that states Mr As car is a total loss under a 
category S. On 31 October the records show a seven-day cancellation notice was sent to Mr 
A. Calpe called Mr A on 1 November advising him it needed the form and the requested 
documents within seven days, or the policy would be cancelled. 
The records show Mr A advised he hadnt seen the form yet. Calpes agent says it will post 
and email the form again. It also advises Mr A to check his junk email folder. The note says 
Mr A didnt think the third party held a driving licence as she wouldnt show it to him at the 
time of the accident. Calpes agent says the third party didnt have to show her licence to Mr 
A, and advised that such an issue would be a matter for the police. 
I can see an internal note dated 7 November 2021 requesting Calpes underwriting team to 
agree a cancellation of the policy. Calpe called Mr A on 16 November to confirm the policy 
was due to be cancelled. The note says Mr A told Calpes agent he had sent the documents 
after the call last week. Calpes agent confirmed it was two weeks since the last call and 
advised Mr A to email back copies of the form and the requested documents to avoid cancellation. 
Another internal note is recorded on 19 November 2021 confirming the policy can now be 
cancelled. The records say Mr A was not cooperating and had ceased communication. 
On 22 November Calpe emailed Mr A to say it was settling the claim for the third party. As 
Mr A had failed to cooperate it would pursue him for these costs. Later that day the records 
show Mr A called Calpe back. He says he was expecting a call back last week. Calpes 
agent says this wasnt agreed. The records say Mr A told Calpes agent he doesnt 
understand English. Calpes agent told him he had had a month to advise he was having 
issues completing the form. 
The record of the call log from 22 November 2022 says Mr A advised he hadnt received 
Calpes form. He then advised he had only received it last week. Calpes agent told Mr A the 
information he was providing was conflicting. The call is said to have then ended with Mr A 
hanging up the phone. 
From the records I can see the policy was cancelled with effect from 24 November 2022. 
Mr A called in five days later. The note says he was being assisted by a co-worker. It says 
he had posted the required documents to Calpe by registered post on 25 November 2022. 
Mr A was informed the policy had been cancelled. Mr A called in again with the assistance of 
the co-worker to raise a complaint about the handling of his claim, given concerns that he 
couldnt understand the forms provided.
Having considered the records, I acknowledge Calpes view that Mr A didnt mention he had 
an issue understanding English until late in proceedings. But I can see that he did tell it he 
had issues understanding English two days prior to the policy cancelling. 
Calpe refers to the correspondence Mr A sent, which it thinks contradicts his claim about not 
understanding English. 
Ive thought about this point, but this correspondence was sent after the policy had 
cancelled. From the records provided Mr A had managed to get some assistance by this 
point. I can see that Mr A was sent a number of letters telling him his policy would be 
cancelled and of the need to provide information. I think it would have been prudent for him 
to have sought help at an earlier stage. But I also acknowledge his comments that the 
advice agencies he approached were busy and an appointment wasnt available for several 
weeks. 
I asked Calpe to provide any recordings it had of the calls with Mr A. It sent six calls in total. 
Ive listened to these calls. Mr A doesnt tell Calpes agent that English isnt his first language 
or that he struggles to understand the forms until the call on 22 November 2022. But I do 
think its evident from listening to the earlier calls that English isnt his first language and hes 
struggling at times to understand Calpes call handler. He then explicitly says he, cant 
understand English 100% in the call on 22 November.  
Having considered all of this I think that once Calpe was made aware Mr A had difficulties 
understanding English, it shouldve tried to help him. The policy had yet to be cancelled at 
this point. I cant see that Calpes agent made a reasonable attempt to discuss the difficulties 
Mr A was having responding to the information requests or to find out what could be done to 
help him. For example, this couldve been done by extending the time for him to complete 
and return the accident form so that he could have time to obtain help. 
From the call recordings, its apparent that Mr A was eventually able to obtain help. The lady who introduces herself over the phone explains that he was doing some work for her. She 
says that Mr A didnt understand the forms hed been sent, which is the reason for the 
delayed response. 
Based on what Ive seen I think its clear Mr A had limited options available to him to gain the 
assistance he needed. I think more care was needed on Calpes part to ensure it provided 
reasonable assistance to Mr A. Had this happened I think its likely that he couldve avoided 
the cancellation of his policy, and ultimately Calpe pursuing him for the third partys losses.
Having considered all of this I dont think its fair that Calpe pursues Mr A for the losses 
involved with the third-partys claim. I can see that he has a £3,000 excess on his policy that 
he is responsible for. But I think its fair that the remainder of the claim is covered under Mr 
As policy. I dont think Mr As policy shouldve been cancelled. Calpe should amend any 
record to remove reference to this being due to a breach of the policy terms and refund any 
cancellation charges it collected. If Mr A thinks he has incurred higher costs with his new 
insurer as a result of the cancellation, he can contact it to confirm the cancellation was 
applied in error.  
I cant agree with Mr A that Calpe should refund all his premiums back to 2019. He has 
benefitted from having this insurance in place. However, Mr A didnt benefit from the 
premiums paid from 24 November 2021 onwards because of the cancellation. Its 
reasonable that Calpe refunds these premiums plus 8% simple interest.   
Ive thought about the impact all of this this must have had on Mr A. Clearly, he found the 
claims process frustrating. It must also have been distressing for his policy to be cancelled 
and be faced with paying the third partys losses because he didnt understand Calpes 
information requests. Mr A also had to arrange for alternative cover to be provided. In these 
circumstances I agree with our investigator that Calpe should provide £300 compensation for 
the distress, frustration, and inconvenience it caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
should:
pay Mr A £300 compensation for the distress, frustration and inconvenience it 
caused;
reduce the amount owed by Mr A in relation to the claim to £3,000;
amend its records for the cancellation to show there was no breach of the policy 
terms and reimburse the insurance premiums Mr A paid from the date of the 
cancellation on 24 November 2021 onwards, plus 8% simple interest until this 
amount is paid;
reimburse any cancellation fees; 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman