DRN-2805951
The complaint
Mr C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) was 
irresponsible to lend him money he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with MoneyBoat as follows: 
loan start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
119 August 
2019Not paid 4 £400 £164.51
Mr C felt that MoneyBoat had allowed him to take out an unaffordable loan without 
completing the necessary checks to ensure that he would be able to afford the repayments. 
When he wasnt able to resolve his complaint directly with MoneyBoat he brought his 
complaint to us and one of our adjudicators investigated.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint - she felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided 
the loan to Mr C and set out the steps she said MoneyBoat should take to put things right for 
Mr C. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said it did proportionate checks 
(especially given the infancy of the lending relationship) and that whilst we might say it 
should've looked at all the information it had, it was impractical for it to review every line of a 
credit file. MoneyBoat told us that the early stages of lending were automated.
MoneyBoat has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Mr C to provide details of his income and to tell MoneyBoat what he 
normally spent each month. It used an online tool to check his salary. It carried out credit 
checks which led to MoneyBoat boosting Mr Cs expenses figure on the basis that his credit 
report had highlighted different information about his expenditure compared to the 
information Mr C had disclosed. 
After doing this, MoneyBoat proceeded with the loan on the basis that the information it had 
gathered showed the monthly repayments for this loan looked like they would be comfortably 
affordable for Mr C out of his disposable income of around £860. 
But I think MoneyBoat could see that information shown on its credit checks revealed that. 
Mr C had a total of 59 accounts 20 of those had been taken out within the previous 6 
months  and 22 were active when he applied for this loan.
I think its fair to say that MoneyBoat could see that Mr C had been relying significantly on 
what appeared to be high cost loans for some time. Also, it was apparent that hed been 
using his credit cards to obtain cash advances, which is a very expensive way to borrow 
money, and he had 5 maxed out credit cards which had been more or less at their limit for at 
least the last 6 months. The checks revealed Mr C had two payday loans currently outstanding and he was making full use of his £1500 overdraft at the bank (and he had been 
regularly at his overdraft limit for at least the last 6 months.   
MoneyBoat could see on its credit checks that the total amount of the monthly repayments 
that Mr C was due to pay showed that his existing credit commitments alone likely exceeded 
his monthly take home pay  and even allowing for some flexibility in his monthly 
repayments, the amount he was already contractually bound to pay looked like it was 
significantly more than the disposable income figure MoneyBoat had calculated he had 
available to spend.   
Ive carefully considered what MoneyBoat has said about this information. And I've taken 
into account that Mr Cs living arrangements meant his liability for household costs was 
minimal. But I think that as it had gathered information showing the extent of Mr Cs credit 
history, including currently outstanding expensive high cost loans, payday loans and home 
credit and his current indebtedness, this should reasonably have led MoneyBoat to the 
conclusion that what Mr C said about his financial situation was highly inaccurate. And 
I dont think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to conclude from the information it had 
gathered that it was likely that Mr C would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way.
The fact that MoneyBoat declined a number of other loan applications made by Mr C doesn't 
mean that the loan it did provide was affordable and fairly loaned to him. 
In response to our adjudicators view I can see that there has been an exchange of 
correspondence about the proportionality of MoneyBoats checks  but I dont think I need to 
comment further on this because the checks it did revealed information that showed the loan 
wasnt sustainably affordable. 
For the reasons I've explained, I dont think MoneyBoat shouldve granted this loan to Mr C.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr C, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan and treat any 
repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B. If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of the loan then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr C. 
And if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr C - bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions if he still needs further time to 
pay. 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file for this loan once it is repaid - and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same if MoneyBoat sold this loan. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman