DRN-4375929
The complaint
Mr S complains about QIC Europe Limited (QIC) who voided his cover (treated it as if it 
didnt exist), following a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was a victim of a burglary at his home. He made a claim against is policy with QIC. 
Several items of jewellery were stolen and as Mr S listed them as lost, QIC instructed a 
specialist jeweller to assess the value of the items. Out of the items taken, 19 pieces of 
jewellery were valued at over £2,000 each. The total jewellery loss (including items that were 
valued below £2,000) was £106,281. 
Mr S told QIC that he wasnt aware of the value of the items of jewellery and many of them 
were heirlooms, so had sentimental value. He believed that the cover he selected was 
sufficient for his needs. QIC told Mr S that had it been aware of the actual value of the 
jewellery it wouldnt have offered cover. So, it voided Mr S policy and agreed to refund all 
the premiums he had paid. 
Mr S complained to QIC on the basis that he wasnt aware of the actual values of the stolen 
jewellery. In its final response, QIC said that Mr S had been careless in his declaration of 
what he thought the jewellery was worth. And had it known the value, it wouldnt have 
offered cover.
 It said that Mr S had indicated that the value of the jewellery was around £10,000, without 
getting any valuations done. And that he said that no individual item was worth more than 
£2,000, when around 19 items were in excess of that. So, on this basis it voided his policy 
and refunded the premium paid. 
As Mr S had been given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His view was that 
QIC had been fair to void the policy as it had assessed the misrepresentation as careless. 
He said that QIC also indicated that it would be refunding the premiums paid by Mr S, which 
he said was fair. He also said that QIC wouldnt have offered cover, had it been made aware 
about the actual value of the jewellery. He explained that it was Mr S responsibility to know 
the accurate value of the jewellery. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask 
QIC to do. 
QIC accepted the view, Mr S did not. He said that QICs points raised were unfair. He felt 
that labelling him as careless was stressful and upsetting. So, he asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mr S. But I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC said that there is an onus on a policyholder to ensure that the information they provide 
is accurate and factually correct. It also said that had it been made fully aware of all of the 
claims, it would not have offered cover. Based on this, QIC said that the misrepresentation 
made by Mr S, was careless.
Mr S initially purchased the policy on a price comparison website. Following the purchase of 
the cover, QIC, said that it emailed him the policy documents and advised him to read them 
to ensure the cover met his needs. 
QIC said that the documents made it transparent, that Mr S ought to provide clear and 
accurate information. It also highlighted the consequences of failing to do so. Ive reviewed 
the policy terms and conditions, and there is a section that emphasises the need to provide 
accurate information. It also outlines the consequences of not doing so, one of which is to 
treat your policy as though it never existed. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was told of the 
importance of giving accurate information.
Further, the policy terms recommended that Mr S obtain valuations of any valuable items 
that he wanted to be covered. It stated: 
We strongly advise you to review your policy each year to make sure you have suitable 
cover in place. The value of some of your personal belongings and valuables is likely to vary 
overtime. We recommend that you review the valuation of any specific items regularly (at 
least every two years) and get professional advice if necessary. 
I cant see that Mr S followed this recommendation. I note that he said that he was unaware 
of the value of the jewellery, but I dont agree this is reasonable, given that it was his 
responsibility to ensure that he was aware of the value of the items, that he wanted to be 
covered. And if he was not, then to get the assistance of a professional. Consequently, I 
dont think QIC was unfair to take this into consideration, during its assessment of his claim.  
In addition, during the purchase journey, Mr S was asked a few questions regarding the 
value of the contents and specific items that he wanted covered. I can see that he declared 
that no one item was worth over £2,000. He also stated that £10,000 would be enough to 
replace all the items (that were worth below £2,000). Albeit his total cover for all his contents 
he said was no more than £40,000.QIC has provided its underwriting criteria and it said that had it been made aware of the 
value of the jewellery, it wouldnt have offered cover, as the value exceeded its acceptance 
criteria. Consequently, I think this error made by Mr S, amounts to a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Ive next looked at the actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA and one of the 
remedies allows for it to void Mr S policy. Which lets it not have to deal with his claim 
following the burglary. QIC said that as Mr S failed to disclose the accurate value of the 
jewellery, it would not have offered cover. In light of this, I agree that the misrepresentation 
was careless, and Im satisfied that QIC was fair to rely on CIDRA to void Mr S policy. 
Finally, QIC has agreed to refund in full all the premiums paid by Mr S, which I think is fair.   
Taking everything into consideration. I find that the onus was on Mr S to disclose factually 
correct information as required by the terms of the policy. Which then wouldve allowed QIC 
to make an informed choice as to whether it wouldve wanted to take on the risk. As this 
wasnt done, Im satisfied that QIC provided enough evidence to show there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. And I think it was reasonable to void the policy (treated it as if it 
had never existed). I also think that it was fair to agree to refund all premiums paid since 
inception of the policy. Consequently, there is nothing further I can reasonably ask QIC to do 
here. 
My final decision
QIC Europe Limited has agreed to refund all the premiums from the date of inception to the 
date the policy was voided. And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman