DRN-3068462
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly failed to convert 
his current account to a student one and this led to it unfairly charging him overdraft interest, 
fees and charges, which caused him financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and reached the conclusion that Halifax 
hadnt done anything wrong when refusing to switch Mr Ls account to a student one. But 
she also thought that Halifax had unfairly added interest fees and charges, to Mr Ls account 
as by August 2019 it ought to have realised that he was experiencing financial difficulty.
Halifax agreed with our adjudicators assessment. But Mr L disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this, isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
provides, increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Halifax has agreed that it ought to have realised that Mr L was experiencing 
financial difficulty in August 2019. So it has offered to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges, which havent already been refunded, it charged from August 2019. 
However, Mr L believes that Halifax should do more. Mr L wants Halifax to place him in the 
position he would be in if his account was converted to a student one. And he wants a 
student account going forward as hes still a student. Ive carefully thought about what Mr L 
has said. However, Halifaxs records appear to show that Mr L was asked to provide a letter 
from the Universities and Colleges Admissions Services (UCAS) or an original letter from 
his university confirming that he is a student. 
I understand that Mr L didnt apply for university through UCAS. And his university has told 
him that his Halifax branch could call it for a code as that was what some banks did to verify 
that an accountholder was a student. However, each bank will have its own evidential 
criteria. And it is up to a bank to decide which documents or other verification it is and isnt 
prepared to accept. As this is the case and Mr L didnt provide the requested documentation, 
I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to refuse to convert Mr Ls account.
For the sake of completeness, Id also point out that Mr L was contacted by Halifax in 
advance of his appointment to convert his account. So Mr L would have known Halifaxs 
requirements at this stage. And he was free to approach another bank for a student account 
and potentially switch from Halifax, if that bank was prepared to contact his university for a 
code in the way his university said. So I dont think that Halifax unfairly locked Mr L into 
keeping this current account, or that it placed him in a position where he was unable to 
obtain a student account. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr L to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Halifaxs offer.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
offered to do to put things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman