DRN-3119297
The complaint
Mr R and Miss D are unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt offer them a mortgage under their 
Family Help to Buy scheme after theyd initially been told there wouldnt be a problem.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr R and Miss D had a telephone appointment with Lloyds Bank PLC to 
discuss taking out a mortgage. They thought Mr Rs credit history might present a problem. 
Initial checks carried out by Lloyds during the appointment suggested their application would 
be successful. So, they started to view properties to buy. They found one they liked and had 
an offer to buy it accepted.
In mid-February 2021 Lloyds told Mr R and Miss D they couldnt offer them a mortgage 
because of Mr Rs credit history. They complained to Lloyds who offered them compensation 
of £300. Mr R and Miss D felt compensation of around £1,336.50 was more appropriate, so 
they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Lloyds offer of compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr R and Miss Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. Since Mr R and Miss D 
didnt agree, Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R and Miss D were concerned Mr Rs poor credit history would prevent them being 
offered a mortgage. So, they asked the Lloyds adviser, during the January appointment, to 
provide assurances it wouldnt. Since Mr R and Miss D scored well on an initial automated 
credit check the adviser ran that day, she said there shouldnt be any problems in an offer 
being made, provided their credit score didnt change. Lloyds issued Mr R and Miss D with a 
Mortgage Promise or Decision in Principle (DIP) that day and confirmed in an email in early 
February that their application had been accepted. Based on those assurances Mr R and 
Miss D started house hunting, had an offer accepted on a property and began the 
conveyancing process. 
Mr R and Miss D provided financial information to Lloyds as part of their full mortgage 
application. During that process, Lloyds systems flagged concerns that there was 
insufficient credit data. Because of that, Lloyds underwriters had to review the application 
manually. And when they did, the application was declined based on Mr Rs credit history.
The parties agree that Mr R and Miss Ds expectations that Lloyds would give them a 
mortgage were raised during the telephone appointment. Lloyds say whilst the information 
their adviser gave was accurate based on the result of her automated check, she could have 
questioned the result knowing Mr Rs credit history was poor. 
The DIP Lloyds issued to Mr R and Miss D warned them, amongst other things, against 
entering into a binding legal commitment to buy a property until they had the full mortgage 
offer, and that once the mortgage application had been made, the available amount might 
change. It suggested, but didnt say clearly, as I think it should have, that Mr R and Miss Ds 
mortgage offer would be subject to a full application and an offer might not be made at all.
I agree that the initial telephone appointment, the DIP and the early February email 
confirming the application had been fully approved  taken together  gave Mr R and 
Miss D the impression theyd get their mortgage offer. I think it was reasonable for them to 
go ahead with their house hunting in the expectation they would. And I can understand it 
was very disappointing for them to find out their application had been turned down.
A lender is entitled to carry out further checks after providing a DIP. A DIP is purely an 
indication of what lending might be available. Lloyds were entitled to decline Mr R and    
Miss Ds the application once theyd carried out further enquiries and found Mr Rs credit 
position didnt meet their lending criteria. I dont interfere with that decision.
But I think Mr R and Miss D are entitled to compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they suffered. Mr R and Miss D felt £1,336.50 was fair to compensate them for what had 
happened and its impact on them. That was based broadly on the time theyd spent house 
hunting and liaising with estate agents.
This service doesnt generally make awards based on hourly rates. So, Ive thought carefully 
about the impact of what happened on Mr R and Miss D based on what theyve told us. I can 
see they put a lot of time and effort into looking for a property over a period of around a 
month before they found out they wouldnt get a mortgage from Lloyds. They suffered 
embarrassment when they had to let the sellers know they couldnt go ahead with the 
purchase. And they say they were desperate to move out of their rented property to 
accommodate their family. I can understand it will have been very disappointing not to get 
the mortgage offer they expected.
I know Mr R and Miss D were hoping for a higher award. But, bearing everything in mind, I 
think the compensation of £300 Lloyds offered Mr R and Miss D is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So, whilst I understand they will be disappointed, I dont uphold their 
complaint. However, if Lloyds havent already paid the £300 to Mr R and Miss D, Id 
encourage them to do so now. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr R and Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman