DRN-3988332
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Ltd mismanaged his pension, took too long to transfer it to 
another provider, and provided incorrect information to HMRC.
What happened
Mr S originally had a pension with LG, receiving £2,000 per month by way of drawdown. 
ReAssure took over the administration of LGs pension portfolio in September 2020. 
Following this, Mr S started experiencing delays with his drawdown  some months were 
paid late, and some not at all. Unhappy with this, Mr S advised ReAssure that he wished to 
transfer his pension to a new provider, who Ill call SL here.  
ReAssure also incorrectly reported Mr Ss pension income, and tax paid, to HMRC in March 
2021  saying hed been paid £24,754.55 in the 2020/2021 tax year (with no tax deducted), 
whereas hed actually been paid £14,754.55 gross (with £3,700.65 tax deducted at source). 
And whilst ReAssure calculated the transfer value of Mr S pension on 5 March 2021, the 
date it received the transfer request via the ORIGO platform - £759,052.35 - this wasnt 
transferred to SL until nearly six weeks later.
Unhappy with the above matters, Mr S complained to ReAssure, and brought his complaint 
to our service as well. ReAssure agreed it had made mistakes, particularly regarding how 
theyd managed his drawdown arrangements and communicated with HMRC. They offered a 
total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience (D&I) theyd caused.
One of our investigators upheld Mr Ss complaint, and asked ReAssure to do the following:
- Notify HMRC, as a matter of urgency, of the correct pension income and tax figures for 
the 2020/2021 tax year
- In respect of the late (and missing) drawdown income payments, calculate the number of 
days that these were paid late, and on the basis Mr S had been deprived of the use of 
those funds for those periods, pay 8% simple interest on those late amounts
- Contact SL to obtain the necessary information to allow a calculation to be made that 
would ascertain if any loss was made as a result of the delays in transferring Mr S 
pension to SL
- Pay Mr S an additional £800 compensation for D&I, in addition to the £400 already paid 
(and ensure the previously offered £400 was paid, if not done already).
Mr S broadly accepted this outcome in principle, but with reservations. However, there was 
no initial response from ReAssure. And after multiple letters and phone calls from Mr S to 
ReAssure, it wasnt until July 2022, many months after Mr S brought his complaint to this 
Service, that they updated HMRC with the correct income and tax figures. 
And because ReAssure had failed to acknowledge the other elements of our Investigators 
View, Mr S asked that his complaint be escalated for an Ombudsman review. After 
considering the evidence, I issued a Provisional Decision (PD), in which I said as follows:
My Provisional Decision 
Reporting income to HMRC
ReAssure accept they made numerous errors with [Mr S] policy, payments have been 
made late and incorrectly [and] with informationsupplied to HMRC. So, this point is not in 
dispute, and isnt something I need to make a finding on here. And having looked at the 
evidence, Im satisfied theyve corrected their mistake  and done all Id have asked them to 
do in relation to this matter. 
However, I think its clear the time taken for ReAssure to acknowledge their mistakes here, 
and correct them, took far too long. So, I need to consider how much of an impact these 
mistakes had on Mr S. After all, it took ReAssure 15 months to rectify their misreporting to 
HMRC, and this despite multiple attempts by Mr S to alert ReAssure. 
Mr S also had to make many enquiries with HMRC as well. Im satisfied Mr S spent 
significant time  all of which was avoidable had ReAssure dealt with their mistake promptly 
 engaging with ReAssure and HMRC on this matter, and that it caused him considerable 
distress and significant inconvenience. And I think ReAssure should pay compensation to Mr 
S for this distress and inconvenience  Ill deal with the amount I think is appropriate at the 
end of this decision.
Unpaid Income
When ReAssure took over the administration of Mr Ss pension, he had a £2,000 monthly 
drawdown arrangement in place. And I think he was entitled to expect that arrangement 
would continue, without incident. However, his income wasnt paid on time, and after 
February 2021, none was paid at all  although by this time he had alerted ReAssure that he 
wanted to transfer his pension to SL. Put another way, he was deprived of the use of these 
funds when they werent paid on time, and as expected. 
Where this happens, wed usually expect a business to compensate a consumer for that loss 
 at a rate of 8% simple interest, for the periods the consumer was without the use of those 
funds. This is what our investigator concluded, although I havent seen ReAssure 
acknowledge or respond to that point. But in the circumstances, I think its fair and 
reasonable this happens here. 
And I want to be clear how I think these amounts should be calculated. Mr S should have 
received his income on a set day each month  which for payment practicality purposes 
would have likely changed each month because of weekends and bank holidays. So, 
ReAssure needs to calculate which day, between September 2020 and March 2021, Mr S 
should have been paid. 
It should then work out how many days late each payment was made. And then pay Mr S 
8% simple interest on each payment based on these calculations from the date the payment 
should have been made until the date it was paid. There were also some months when Mr S 
wasnt paid at all  in this case ReAssure must calculate from the day the payment should 
have been made, to the date the pension was transferred to SL. This is because Mr S was 
deprived of the use of these funds indefinitely, although ReAssures liability for this must end 
at the point they were no longer administering Mr S pension. Loss Assessment
ReAssure have accepted they caused delays in the transfer of Mr S pension. And theyve 
now accepted the recommendation made in our Investigators View - and have made the 
necessary enquiries with SL to obtain the fund value information that is needed to feed into a 
redress calculation. Theyve calculated Mr S experienced a loss of £17,728.85. This figure 
was calculated as at 7 November 2022. 
Prior to this Mr S, with the assistance of his IFA, provided what they believed was a fair 
redress calculation and amount  £24,261.82. But this used a different calculation 
methodology. 
Mr S methodology was based on the total value of a named fund and showed the total 
increase in value of that fund between two dates (Ill comment on the dates shortly). 
However, this isnt the methodology wed usually expect a business to use when calculating 
an investment loss caused by transfer delays - whereas the methodology used by ReAssure 
is the one wed ordinarily expect to be used. Ill explain.
Where a business has made a mistake, and a consumer has suffered a loss as result, wed 
tell a business to take steps (as much as possible) to put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been in had the mistake not occurred. And in this case, as part of my 
considerations, I need to think about the time I think ReAssure should have taken to transfer 
Mr S funds. I note ReAssure have said theyd expect a transfer to take 15 working days 
following receipt of the request, and that is a good place to start.
ReAssure have confirmed they received the required transfer notification on 4 March 2021 
via the ORIGO transfer platform from the receiving scheme - and began the transfer process 
the following day. The transfer value was calculated on this date. The transfer funds were 
sent to SL on 26 March 2021  15 days after receipt of the ORIGO request. This is the date 
ReAssure used in their calculations for the delay, and fund transfer loss Mr S experienced. 
However, the ORIGO platform was introduced to speed up the process of pension transfers. 
Its an electronic platform which allows the transfer of pensions and investments and can 
reduce transfer times to a matter of a few days or sooner, depending on the complexity of 
the transaction. 
Here, I havent seen a detailed breakdown of each stage of the transfer process, however I 
note Mr S was invested in multiple funds. And the transfer was a relatively high value one, at 
about three quarters of a million pounds. These are both factors that could reasonably cause 
ReAssure to take a few extra days to process the transfer  certainly a high value transfer of 
this type would justify a few extra days checking to ensure everything was in order. 
But even allowing for that, I dont think ReAssure should have taken 15 working days to 
process the request. ReAssure havent advised they experienced any problems in 
disinvesting Mr S various funds. 
So, in the circumstances, and in the absence of any evidence that suggests otherwise, I 
think a ten-day transfer processing period was likely achievable  and a fair and reasonable 
outcome here is for ReAssure to re-calculate the transfer based on Mr S funds being sent to 
SL on 19 March 2021. 
Distress and Inconvenience
Reassure have already paid Mr S £400 compensation for the inconvenience theyve caused. 
A payment of £150 was made following Mr S not receiving his regular withdrawal due in October 2020. And a further £250 was paid in April 2021, after ReAssure admitted theyd 
caused delays. And our investigator said ReAssure should pay additional compensation for 
D&I of £800, because of the significant delays Mr S experienced in having his HMRC 
records corrected, and the time he spent having to liaise with ReAssure and HMRC on this 
matter. ReAssure have since advised theyve agreed to pay this extra D&I. 
Placing a value on distress and inconvenience is not an exact science. And our D&I awards 
are not designed to punish businesses for any mistakes theyve made. But in this case, I 
think total D&I of £1,200 seems fair compensation, and I wont be asking ReAssure to 
increase this sum here.
I must also respond to Mr S request that, as part of my decision, he would like to see some 
public censure or action taken formally by the Ombudsman to criticise ReAssure. 
The Ombudsman is an informal dispute resolution organisation. My role within that is to 
consider Mr Ss complaint, and decide what I think is a fair resolution to put Mr S back into 
the position he would have been in had ReAssure not made the mistakes they did. And this 
is what I have done here. It isnt my role to criticise or censure ReAssure. If Mr S wishes to 
complain about the way ReAssure operates, he must address those concerns to ReAssures 
regulator, the FCA. 
I then set out the calculation methodology I thought was appropriate to compensate Mr S for 
the transfer loss he experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my PD. 
Mr S raised a question about the £800 D&I awarded. I can confirm this amount is in full and 
final settlement in respect of the distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced as a result of 
ReAssures delays and mistakes. 
Mr S also repeated that his advisor had sent in a calculation of what he felt Mr S transfer 
loss was  £24,261.82  as a result of ReAssures delays. I explained in my PD why I felt a 
different calculation method was appropriate, and that view remains.
Mr S has repeated that ReAssure have caused significant delays in effecting the redress 
calculation, and by association offering (or making) a payment in respect of this. My redress 
methodology takes account of those delays  as it requires up to date calculations to be 
made, so that the loss (and redress) is calculated based on what Mr S receiving fund would 
be worth now had the transfer been made on time  not at a specific point in time in the past. 
Mr S also comments on the issue of taxation, as set out in my PD redress recommendations, 
and repeated below. Mr S is right that no tax is paid on the redress funds paid into the 
receiving scheme, and that tax will naturally be levied when it is eventually drawn down. The 
taxation comment is included purely in the event that a payment into the receiving scheme is 
not possible, in which case the redress would need to be paid directly to Mr S  and in which 
case the taxation calculation would then be necessary.
ReAssure have agreed with my PD conclusions. They agreed to calculate and pay 8% 
simple interest on the late monthly pension payments. Regarding the loss calculation, ReAssure asked I clarify a point on the calculation dates Id 
said should be used. They reiterated theyd received the ORIGO transfer request on 4 March 
2021, and applying ten working days to that date, it took them to 19 March 2021. And 
assuming this was the date the funds were sent to the receiving scheme, it would (in real 
terms, based on what did happen) have taken a further five working days for the funds to be 
received and reinvested by the receiving scheme  meaning ReAssure would be using the 
values taken from Mr S receiving scheme as at 26 March 2021 for their redress calculation. 
I can confirm that, on the assumption Mr Ss pension funds were transferred to the receiving 
scheme on 19 March 2021, and it would have taken a further five working days for the 
receiving fund to have received and invested those funds, then the receiving fund values as 
at 26 March 2021 are the correct ones to use for the purposes of redress calculation. 
Putting things right
Loss calculation  Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put, as closely as possible, into the position he would now be 
in if ReAssure had transferred his pension to his new provider on 19 March 2021. So, to 
compensate Mr S fairly, I think ReAssure must do the following:
- Calculate, as at the date of any final decision along these lines, the notional current 
value of Mr S current pension plan had his pension funds  using the value calculated 
on 5 March 2021  been sent to the receiving scheme on 19 March 2021
- Compare this value to the actual value of Mr S pension at the date of any final decision 
along these lines.
- If the notional value is greater than the actual value of Mr Ss pension, then Mr S has 
suffered a financial loss and should be compensated accordingly. If the notional value is 
less than the actual value of Mr S funds, then theres no loss and no investment 
compensation is due.
The compensation should be paid into Mr Ss current pension plan. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ss pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have eventually 
provided a taxable income. So, the total amount paid in this way should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S expected marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. I think its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
retirement, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr S would have been able to 
take a 25% tax free lump sum, the tax reduction should only be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in a fair overall tax reduction of 15%.
If Mr S, or ReAssure, disputes this is a reasonable assumption, it must let us know so that 
the assumption can be clarified as necessary, and Mr S receive appropriate compensation. Unpaid Income  Fair compensation
To compensate Mr S for the loss of use of his pension income that was either paid late, or 
not at all, I think ReAssure need to do the following:  
- ReAssure must calculate which date, between September 2020 and March 2021, Mr S 
should have been paid. 
- In respect of any payments made after these respective dates, ReAssure must work out 
how many days late each such payment was made, and pay Mr S 8% simple interest on 
each late payment, for the period between the expected and actual paid dates
- In respect of any months during this period that Mr S wasnt paid, ReAssure must work 
out the dates any such payments should have been made, and pay 8% simple interest 
on the period between the expected payment date and the date Mr S funds were 
transferred away from ReAssure
Distress and Inconvenience
In the event it has not already been paid, ReAssure must pay Mr S further compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £800.
My final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint, and require ReAssure Ltd to undertake the redress calculations, 
and pay Mr S compensation, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman