DRN-2347898
The complaint
Mr P complains against Amtrust Europe Limited that the wording in the legal expenses part 
of his home insurance is unclear. He says it should be made clearer that there isnt any 
cover to defend claims brought against policyholders for encroachment or trespass on a 
neighbours land. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy document sets out the extent of cover provided by the insurance. It is for 
an insurer to decide whether or not it wants to insure a particular risk or peril; thats a 
commercial decision is it entitled to make and not something this office would 
generally interfere with. 
The policy document has a specific section relating to property infringement. Under 
What your policy covers it says:
Costs to pursue Legal Action for nuisance or trespass against the person or 
organisation infringing Your legal rights in relation to Your main home. 
Im satisfied this clause is written in plain and simple English; it clearly sets out that 
cover is provided for costs to pursue a claim. There is nothing under this section 
which suggests, in any way, that costs for defending a claim are also covered. I 
therefore dont find there is any ambiguity in this term such that AmTrust isnt entitled 
to rely on it. As defence costs isnt listed in the What your policy covers section, it 
means Amtrust has decided it doesnt want to insure this particular risk or peril. 
Mr P says defence costs isnt listed in the section What your policy does not cover. I 
agree, defence costs isnt listed here. But I wouldnt expect it to be. This section is for 
setting out the limitations and exclusions to what the insurer is willing to cover  not 
for setting out all of the perils the insurer doesnt provide cover for at all. For example 
if we take the same part of the policy, cover is provided for costs to pursue a claim  
but the What your policy does not cover section explains this isnt provided where 
that nuisance or trespass happened within the first 180 days of cover. 
I have checked the remainder of the policy and there isnt any other area that would 
provide cover for the situation in which Mr P finds himself. 
Enquiries were made as to whether Mr P was counter claiming  but further details 
werent provided. If this is a course of action Mr P is pursuing, then he can get back 
in contact with the insurer about that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman