DRN-1705209
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL) when he took out a loan to purchase a bike in 
August 2002. He says he wasnt told about the policy exclusions and the costs of the policy 
werent properly disclosed to him. 
What happened
Mr M bought a bike with a loan he took out in August 2002. The loan was for £3,000 over a 
term of 36 months, and at the same time he was sold a PPI policy. The policy cost £372.21 
and, as it was a single premium policy, it was added to his loan and he paid interest on it.
The policy wouldve covered his monthly repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mr M 
hadnt been able to work because of accident or sickness. It also wouldve paid off the loan if 
hed died.
The adjudicator thought that CSOL didnt explain the costs to Mr M well enough. CSOL 
disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this 
case. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
CSOL needed to give Mr M enough information so he could work out whether the policy was 
right for him. Ive looked at how the costs were explained to Mr M and I dont think they were 
clear enough.
Ive looked through all of the documents CSOL provided and I can see that it gave the 
premium cost in several places  but none of the paperwork Ive seen shows what the 
premium would cost with interest added over the term of the loan.
So I dont think Mr M wouldve realised that by adding the premium to the loan, he would be 
charged interest and that it wouldve increased his costs of insurance significantly. And I 
think if hed known this hed have thought the policy didnt offer him the value for money that 
he wanted.
Having a clear idea of what an insurance product costs is likely to be a key consideration for 
most consumers. I think this information would have mattered to Mr M. The policy added to 
his overall borrowing and was expensive for the benefit it gave. Mr M has also told us he had 
some sick pay and savings he could fall back on if he couldnt work, so I dont think he would 
have bought the policy if hed been given clear information about how much it cost.
I think Mr M has lost out because of what CSOL did wrong and so it should put things right.Putting things right
Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr M needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Canada Square Operations Limited should:
 
Work out and pay Mr M the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square Operations 
Limited can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square Operations Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Canada Square Operations Limited must give Mr M a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and direct Canada Square Operations Limited to pay 
compensation as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman