DRN-1855823
The complaint
Miss G complained about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) handled 
her car insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss G took out a car insurance policy with AA in April 2019. She was involved in a no-fault 
road traffic accident in mid-October 2019 and contacted AA. Miss G was asked to take 
photographs of the damage to her car and the car was then taken to an approved garage for 
repairs to the wheels and for a new back panel and new tyres to be fitted.
Miss Cs car was returned to her after the repairs were carried out and she then noticed that 
the anti-lock braking system (ABS) warning light on the dashboard was permanently on. 
Miss G thought this problem was caused by the garage that carried out the repairs and not 
by the accident. She contacted AA again and the car was taken to a main dealership, where 
it remained for around eight weeks. The dealership attempted to diagnose and repair the 
problem. 
Miss G was provided with a courtesy car by the approved garage while her car was being 
repaired. There were problems with the car, including that the oil needed to be topped up, 
the key battery needed to be changed and a problem with the service light needed to be 
fixed. Miss G contacted AA and was told she needed to speak to the approved garage, as 
they provided the car. 
Miss G initially complained to AA in December 2019 about the length of time it was taking to 
sort this matter out. 
AA contacted Miss G on 9 January 2020 and said the problem with the ABS warning light 
has been difficult to resolve. It said the garage were in a trial and error situation, where they 
were replacing parts with no guarantee of fixing the issue, which has attached costs. So AA 
said it decided to deal with the car on a total loss basis. It said the fair market value of the 
car was £11,500, less the policy excess, and said Miss G agreed to this. The engineer who 
spoke to Miss G said he was not in a position to agree to compensation and said he would 
forward Miss Gs complaint to the complaints team. 
Miss G did not receive a further response from AA about her complaint, so she contacted 
this service. She was unhappy with the length of time it had taken for AA to deal with her 
claim, with the issues that arose with the ABS warning light and with the belated decision to 
treat her car as a total loss. Miss G also complained about the difficulties she experienced 
with the courtesy car and about AAs failure to keep in contact or provide updates. Miss G 
asked to be compensated for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint and asked AA to pay £300 compensation to 
Miss G for the damage to her cars electrics, that were most likely caused by the approved 
garage, as well as the delays that this subsequently caused and the lack of communication 
throughout the claim. 
AA responded and said it thought £200 was a more appropriate amount of compensation for 
the issues Miss G faced. For her part, Miss G thought £300 compensation was not enough. 
As neither party agreed with what our investigator said, this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint
AA has agreed that Miss G should be compensated for the issues she faced following her 
car insurance claim. So I will be looking at what is an appropriate amount, given the 
circumstances of Miss Gs complaint. 
Ive looked first of all at AAs request for Miss G to take photographs of the damage to her 
car following the accident. Miss G doesnt think AA should have asked her to do this, but Im 
satisfied this isnt an unusual request. Photographs taken and submitted by policy holders 
allow insurers to make quick decisions about what the appropriate first steps might be in 
terms of how it deals with the claim. 
I then looked at whether there were avoidable delays during the claim that AA were 
responsible for. I think the claim was initially dealt with in a timely way. Miss Gs car was sent 
to the approved garage and returned to Miss G within a reasonable amount of time. But then 
the problem arose with the ABS warning light. I can see that the investigations carried out by 
the dealership indicate that the ABS failure is most likely due to the repair process not 
correctly carried out to isolate the vehicle from possible power surge. So, given that the 
garage approved by AA are responsible for the damage to Miss Gs car, Im satisfied that AA 
is responsible for the resultant delay, of around eight weeks, to Miss Gs claim being 
finalised. 
Having said that, I can see that AA were taking steps to try to find and resolve the problem 
with the cars ABS during the eight weeks that the car was at the dealership. And so 
although I understand Miss G would have preferred to know earlier that the car was a total 
loss, Im satisfied that AA couldnt have known, until it spent time trying to find and deal with 
the problem, that the problem was too time consuming and costly to justify the ABS being 
repaired. So Im satisfied that AA couldnt have known earlier that dealing with the car as a 
total loss was the appropriate step for it to take.  
Miss G also complained about the problems she had with the courtesy car. I know that 
Miss G thought AA hadnt taken any action when she told them about the problems, but I 
can see that it made contact with the garage who provided the car to let them know Miss G 
was having problems. In any event, it wasnt unreasonable for AA to ask Miss G to contact 
the garage directly about the problems, as AA couldnt have fixed these for her. The car 
came from the garage and Miss G would have needed to return it directly to the garage for 
any problems to be dealt with. 
I then looked at Miss Gs complaint about the lack of communication throughout the claims 
process. Although Im satisfied that AA were dealing effectively with her claim, I think it could 
have done more to keep Miss G updated and I can see there were times when it said it 
would return her calls but didnt. I can also see that contact between Miss G and AA was 
largely initiated by Miss G. So Im satisfied that AA could have done more to keep in contact 
with Miss G and provide her with updates while it was dealing with her claim. To summarise, Im satisfied that AA is responsible for the damage caused to the ABS 
system on Miss Gs car and so is responsible for the resultant eight week delay to Miss Gs 
claim being settled. And Im satisfied that AA could have done more to communicate with 
Miss G while it dealt with her claim. So I think its fair for AA to compensate Miss G in the 
amount of £300 for the inconvenience she experienced as a result of these shortcomings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint and require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to pay an amount of £300 compensation to Miss G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman