DRN-2490652
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of his claim for legal expenses 
insurance (LEI). 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. The underlying 
claim has also moved on considerably during the time this complaint has been with our 
service. So, Ill only provide an overview of some key events here. 
Mr A has the benefit of LEI which is provided by Great Lakes. In 2019 Mr A made a claim for 
assistance. He was being investigated for gross misconduct by his employer and he 
believed he was a victim of racial discrimination. Great Lakes said that there was no cover 
for internal grievance procedures, but it may be able to assist with the discrimination. 
A panel solicitor considered the discrimination claim and in September 2019 it was submitted 
to the employment tribunal. In November the same year the claim was refuted by Mr As 
employer. Great Lakes reviewed the claim and noted that much of the alleged discrimination 
took place prior to the inception of the policy. As such they said they were unable to 
authorise further costs and they asked the solicitor for their comments on this point.  
In December 2019 Mr A informed Great Lakes that he had been dismissed. The panel 
solicitor said that an unfair dismissal claim needed to be lodged urgently. Great Lakes asked 
the solicitor to provide an assessment of the prospects of success. 
Mr A complained that the cover for the discrimination claim had been withdrawn. He said he 
thought it had mostly taken place in 2019 and so he should be covered. Great Lakes 
maintained their position and said if Mr A wanted to pursue the discrimination case, he would 
have to fund it privately. 
In early 2020 the solicitor reported that the unfair dismissal claim had good prospects of 
success. But she believed it may be disproportionate to pursue, given the £25,000 limit of 
indemnity for claims of this type under the policy. She also advised Mr A to drop his 
discrimination claim as she felt it didnt have prospects of success. 
Mr A disputed the assessment. Great Lakes agreed to get a second opinion. The second 
solicitor broadly agreed with the first. The unfair dismissal claim had prospects of success 
but was likely to exceed the available indemnity. Great Lakes wrote to Mr A and explained 
that they would provide cover, as long as he agreed to fund the claim to conclusion once the 
indemnity had been exhausted. They advised that were he to withdraw his claim before this, 
he would become liable for what theyd paid. 
In February 2020 the panel solicitor said it could no longer act for Mr A. I understand this 
was in part due to a dispute over fees for private work and also because they were 
concerned Mr A wouldnt follow their advice. 
Mr A complained to Great Lakes. This complaint covered a variety of issues including the 
withdrawal of cover for the discrimination claim, being advised to use a panel solicitor and 
delays in assessing the claim. 
Great Lakes didnt think theyd done anything wrong and the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators agreed with most of what Great Lakes had said. However 
she recommended that Great Lakes allow Mr A to appoint his own (or another panel) 
solicitor if he agreed to only pursue his dismissal case.
Great Lakes accepted this and said they would provide funding up to £25,000 on the same 
agreement as before (with Mr A paying costs beyond this). They said Mr A could appoint 
another panel solicitor or his own (but the most theyd pay was £100 per hour plus VAT). 
Mr A still wanted his discrimination claim to be covered. He said his claim was for unfair 
dismissal based on harassment, discrimination and victimisation. He shared some 
information that was submitted to the tribunal in June 2020. 
Our investigator passed this on to Great Lakes who asked their panel firm to have another 
look. Ultimately, the advice was that the claim for discrimination didnt have prospects and 
they declined to provide cover. 
Our investigator thought that Great Lakes position was fair. They had sought legal advice 
and had relied on it.
Our investigator then gave further consideration to the £100 hourly rate that Great Lakes 
said was the most theyd pay for a non-panel solicitor. She didnt think the policy terms made 
this limit clear. She thought that in the event of Mr A accepting to only progress his dismissal 
claim, Great Lakes should reinstate cover and pay court guideline rates. 
Great Lakes disputed the hourly rate, they said that it was in Mr As interests to use a lower 
rate given the limit of indemnity available. They also highlighted that the policy said any 
payment would be limited to what theyd pay a panel solicitor. 
Mr A then shared a barristers opinion from December 2020. This concluded that his 
discrimination claim did have prospects of success. This was shared with Great Lakes who 
were invited to reconsider their position. Great Lakes said they wouldnt provide cover as 
they had their own legal opinion on file. They said that the legal opinion Mr A had supplied 
wasnt well reasoned, and it didnt persuade them to change their mind about covering the 
discrimination claim. 
Our investigator thought that as things had moved on, it would be fair for Great Lakes to 
reassess the claim. She maintained that it wasnt fair to limit the hourly rate to £100 and she 
thought that Great Lakes should instruct an independent barrister to assess the prospects of 
the discrimination claim. 
Great Lakes disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. Mr A also thinks 
his claim should be covered in full. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr A has made considerable submissions in relation to this complaint. Ive read and 
considered everything that hes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So, if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Much of Mr As submissions have also been about the legal professionals involved. I can 
only consider the actions of Great Lakes (and their agents). Not any legal professionals who 
will have their own complaints procedures. 
Mr As policy doesnt cover events that did not occur during the period of insurance. This is 
a term common to many insurance policies. Insurance is intended to cover the risk of 
something happening in the future. So, I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer not to 
cover things that happened (or started) before the policy was in place. 
Mr As policy with Great Lakes started in 2016 and an ET1 form records that There are a 
series of discriminatory, harassment, and victimisation acts arising from events in or around 
2011-2012 So Great Lakes withdrawing cover based on this was fair in my opinion. I 
appreciate that Mr A is unhappy that the claim progressed initially, and cover was later 
withdrawn. But Im satisfied that Great Lakes were treating him fairly here due to tight 
deadlines in employment tribunal cases and that they acted reasonably once aware that the 
alleged discrimination pre-dated the policy. 
Using a Panel Solicitor
I dont think Great Lakes were wrong to appoint a panel solicitor in the first instance to look 
at Mr As claim. It is common practice for an initial assessment to be done by a panel 
solicitor. And once Mr A discussed wanting to use his own solicitor, Great Lakes said he 
would be able to do so subject to him needing to issue a claim in the tribunal. I think this is 
fair. 
Prospects of Success
Common to nearly all legal expenses insurance policies there is a requirement for Mr As 
intended legal action to have reasonable prospects of success. This is defined in the policy 
as: The matter falling within the cover provided by sections 1-10 of this insurance has a 
greater chance than not of being wholly successful at the time of reporting your claim and, 
throughout the conduct of your claim.
I think the above term is fair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client 
wouldnt generally continue to fund legal action if advised they were unlikely to win. So, I 
dont think an insurer should have to either. 
Great Lakes arent legal experts, so I think it is fair that they rely on a suitably qualified legal 
opinion when making decisions about a claim. Unless that opinion is so obviously wrong that 
a layperson could be expected to notice. With the exception of the barristers opinion from 
December 2020 (which Ill come to below), I think Great Lakes have done this. 
Their decisions about the proportionality (another requirement of the policy) and the 
prospects of success throughout the claim have been informed by legal opinions. In each 
case, I think the authors of those opinions were suitably qualified and I dont consider the 
opinions to be obviously wrong. I also think the decisions taken by Great Lakes were fair.  
Prior to December 2020, there hadnt been a positive prospects assessment in relation to a 
discrimination claim. And I note that some of the discrimination was deemed to pre-date the policy (which Ive covered above). Until the requirements of the policy are met, there isnt 
cover available. So I dont think there is any reasonable basis upon which to ask Great 
Lakes to cover the discrimination claim prior to that point. 
Ive carefully read the barristers opinion from December 2020 and Ive considered the points 
Great Lakes have made in relation to it. But, in line with what Ive said above, I dont 
consider it to be obviously wrong. And its author (as a barrister) is clearly suitably qualified. 
So, I dont think Great Lakes have acted fairly when maintaining their position that the 
discrimination element of the claim (that falls within the period of insurance) isnt covered. 
There are conflicting legal opinions on file. I agree with our investigator that the fair outcome 
for this is for Great Lakes to reassess the claim and to seek a further barristers opinion to 
resolve the dispute as to prospects. Of course, should Great Lakes choose to accept the 
opinion of Mr As barrister and to progress the claim, I would consider that to be fair.
In the event that following this reconsideration, the discrimination element of the claim is 
accepted, I think it would be fair for this to be backdated to when Great Lakes first received a 
copy of the barristers opinion (December 2020). 
The Hourly Rate
Where cover is agreed, Mr As policy says: Where we have agreed someone other than our 
nominated authorised representative may act for you, we will not pay any sums in excess of 
what we would have paid to an authorised representative that we would have appointed to 
undertake the same work.
I appreciate Mr A would have known from this term that Great Lakes wouldnt pay more than 
they would pay a panel solicitor. But the terms dont say what a panel solicitor would be paid 
(or set out an hourly rate that would be provided for his own solicitor). So Mr A couldnt know 
what his own solicitor would actually receive. And it doesnt appear that he was provided 
with any other information that would have made clear what the hourly rate would be. As a 
result, I dont think Mr A would have known what level of indemnity would have been 
available to him when he took out the policy. 
In relation to employment disputes, the policy says it will cover professional fees (up to the 
limit of indemnity). These are defined as Fees or costs reasonably incurred by the 
authorised representative, with our or the administrators prior authority So this doesnt 
mean that Great Lakes need to pay what Mr As solicitor charges. I think Great Lakes should 
pay a fair and appropriate rate taking into account the circumstances of this claim. 
Our investigator thought this should be based on the court guideline rates for where Mr A 
lives. I think this is a fair approach. Great Lakes are still entitled to negotiate as to an hourly 
rate. But I think the court guideline rates are a fair starting point for this negotiation, and I 
agree that it isnt fair in the circumstances of this complaint to limit the rate to £100 per hour 
as Great Lakes have said. 
I do however note Great Lakes point about maximising the work achievable under the limit of 
indemnity (which would still apply). Whether to continue to use his own solicitor (or to instruct 
another panel solicitor) is a decision for Mr A. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must:
Reconsider Mr As claim in light of the barristers opinion from December 2020. If 
Great Lakes seek to disregard that legal advice, they should instruct an independent 
barrister with greater experience to assess the prospects of success.
If Great Lakes accept that the discrimination claim is covered as a result of the 
reconsideration, cover for that should be backdated to when they first received the 
December 2020 opinion. 
Where cover is agreed, in the event of Mr A wishing to use his own solicitor, Great 
Lakes should base the hourly rate they will pay on court guideline rates as applicable 
to Mr As home address. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman