DRN-2196683
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that Avantia Insurance Limited mis-sold them a contents insurance
policy.
In this case, Avantia was responsible for selling Mr B and Ms Bs policy as a broker. It wasnt
the policy insurer.
What happened
Mr B and Ms B had a buildings insurance policy through Avantia. In 2018, they decided to
add contents cover to the policy too. They initially went through an aggregator website,
before being directed to Avantias website to go through an online quote. They carried out an
online quote and called up Avantia to finalise the policy and pay.
In 2019, Mr B and Ms B were burgled. Several items were stolen. At this point, Mr B and Ms
B learned that their contents policy didnt cover theft or attempted theft unless a burglar
alarm was installed within 30 days of the policy starting. Mr B and Ms B didnt have a burglar
alarm at their property. So they didnt submit a formal claim to the insurer because they were
told it wouldnt be covered. They also learned they didnt have enough cover for some of
their high-value items.
Mr B and Ms B complained to Avantia. They said theyd told it they didnt have a burglar
alarm installed during the online application process. So they felt they should never have
been sold the contents insurance policy. They also felt that the need to buy specific cover for
high-value items hadnt been made clear during the sales process. They felt Avantia should
cover their claim.
Avantia said when Mr B and Ms B had carried out the online quote, theyd been asked to
agree to a set of assumptions, which confirmed what would and wouldnt be covered. It also
said it was Mr B and Ms Bs responsibility to check the policy documents and ensure they
were fully covered. Remaining unhappy with Avantias position, Mr B and Ms B asked us to
look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr B and Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought the
policy schedule made the alarm endorsement clear. She noted the policy covered up to
£5000 for high-value items and she also saw that Mr B and Ms B had specified an item of
jewellery on their policy. So she felt the cover for high-value items had been made clear
enough. Overall, she felt that as the sale of the policy hadnt been advised, it was down to
Mr B and Ms B to check the policy terms and make sure it was right for them.
Mr B and Ms B disagreed. They said theyd provided proof of their requirements and that
what theyd been sold wasnt fit for purpose. They felt the alarm endorsement and limited
cover for high-value items shouldve been highlighted more clearly during the sales process.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 August 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think Avantia had given Mr B and Ms B clear enough information 
about the policy to allow them to make an informed choice about whether it was right for 
them.  I said:
Theres no dispute that Mr B and Ms B already had buildings insurance through Avantia.
When they wanted to add contents cover, they used an aggregator website and then ran
through Avantias online sales process. They called up Avantia to finalise the policy and pay
for it. Having listened to the sales call and having carefully reviewed the online sales
process, I agree that Avantia didnt give advice about whether or not Mr B and Ms B should
take out the policy. So it didnt need to check the policy met all of their needs.
But Avantia did need to give them enough clear, fair and not misleading information about
the policy so Mr B and Ms B could make an informed choice about whether or not it was
right for them. This includes an obligation to highlight significant, unusual or onerous terms
during the sales process.
Ive considered the online sales process in detail. First, Ive thought about whether the cover
limits for high-value items were sufficiently drawn to Mr B and Ms Bs attention.
I can see theres a pop-up information box which states that high risk items (like jewellery,
watches, art etc.) are included up to £5000 as standard, as long as no item or set is worth
more than £1500. The box says that if a policyholder needs more cover than £1500 per item,
they should choose extended cover. A consumer is then asked to decide whether yes, they
want extended cover for specific items (bikes, electronic gadgets etc.) or no, they dont.
Immediately underneath this question is a table which sets out detailed information about the
policy limits for jewellery, gadgets, computers etc. I think this table sets out the extent of
cover for high-risk/value items very clearly. Consumers are then asked yes or no questions
about whether they want to add cover for bikes, phones, electronic gadgets or high-risk
items. And I note from the policy schedule that Mr B and Ms B did add specific cover for a
high-value piece of jewellery. So Im satisfied they most likely did see this information. This
means I currently think the policy limits were sufficiently brought to their attention.
But, I dont think the alarm endorsement was sufficiently drawn to Mr B and Ms Bs attention
during the online sales process, or during the follow-up phone call. The sales process asks,
Is there a functioning alarm at the property? Its clear from the policy schedule that Mr B
and Ms B answered no to this question. But theres no pop-up or information box at this
point to explain that unless an alarm is fitted within 30 days, therell be no cover for theft or
attempted theft. Other important limitations on cover are highlighted during the sales
process, including the locks requirement and the fact that theres no theft cover. Theres
simply no clear information about the alarm endorsement.
I accept that the sales process includes a hyperlink to a copy of the online terms and
conditions. And that Mr B and Ms B wouldve been required to go ahead and tick a box to
confirm theyd read the terms and conditions if theyd gone ahead with buying the policy. But
I dont think relying on a hyperlink is sufficient to highlight such an important restriction on
cover. And these links are only available once a quotes been generated. It isnt at all clear to
me that Mr B and Ms B wouldve gone on to see these screens, given their call to actually
finalise the quote. Ive also noted that the call handler Mr B spoke with to finalise buying the
policy didnt mention the restriction on cover either.
The alarm endorsement was set out on the policy schedule which was sent out to Mr B and
Ms B after the sale. This was found on page five of a 12-page document. I think the
endorsement was clearly worded. But I dont think its fair for Avantia to rely on post-sale
documentation to try and put right any information failings at the point of sale.
Mr B and Ms B answered truthfully that their property didnt have an alarm. I think that coverfor theft is likely one of the most important things to a consumer when theyre looking for
contents insurance. And there are contents policies available on the retail market which dont
require a policyholder to have a working alarm fitted at their home in order to be covered for
theft. I think its most likely that had the alarm endorsement been clearly highlighted to Mr B
and Ms B during the sales process, theyd likely have gone elsewhere for contents
insurance. This means I think theyve lost out because Avantia didnt give them clear enough
information at the point of sale.
In these circumstances, I currently think the fair outcome for this complaint would be for
Avantia to step into the shoes of the insurer and assess Mr B and Ms Bs burglary claim
without reference to the alarm endorsement, subject to the remaining terms and conditions
of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to look 
at.
Avantia accepted my provisional findings.
Mr B and Ms B also accepted my provisional findings. Mr B said he didnt know what the 
pop-up box for high-risk items that Id mentioned in my provisional decision was. But given 
the time thatd passed, he couldnt really provide anymore evidence on this point. Overall, Mr 
B and Ms B accepted my provisional findings and direction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
Mr B and Ms B mentioned the pop-up for high risk items Id referred to. As part of my review 
of the file, I looked closely at Avantias online sales process which included the screens Mr B 
and Ms B wouldve seen during the sale of their policy. As I explained, I was satisfied that 
the information they were given about cover at that point for high-risk items was clear 
enough  especially given theyd specified a piece of jewellery. So I thought Avantia had 
made the policy limits on high-value, high-risk items clear enough. Having reconsidered 
everything, my view on this point remains the same.
Overall, as both parties agreed with my provisional decision, my final decision is the same as 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Avantia Insurance Limited to step into the shoes of the insurer and assess the
claim without reference to the alarm endorsement, subject to the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman