DRN-3135008
The complaint
Mr A, Mr A, Mr U and Mr U complain Zurich Insurance Plc unfairly declined their property 
owners insurance claim.
For ease I refer to the Mr A, Mr A, Mr U and Mr U as the insureds. 
What happened
In July 2014 there was a fire in a restaurant building. The insureds claimed against the 
buildings Zurich property owners insurance policy. The claim was for damage to the 
kitchen. They provided an estimate for repairs and replacement of damaged items at 
about £200,000. They also claimed for loss of rent from the propertys tenants at £2,200 per 
month. 
In March 2015 Zurich declined the claim. It said kitchen fixtures and fitting claimed for 
werent the property of the insureds  instead they belonged to tenants of the property. It 
said a lease agreement, provided by the insureds to support their claim for loss of rent, 
wasnt genuine. It said the position in law is that if a claim is exaggerated the claimants right 
to pursue it in its entirety is lost and all policy cover comes to an end.    
In May 2018 the insureds withdrew the kitchen part of the claim. They said a new tenant had 
agreed to take on the cost of repairing the premises and replacing its fixtures and fittings. 
They continued to claim for loss of rent.
In May 2019 Zurich responded to a complaint from the insureds. It still refused to pay any of 
the claim. It said the they had provided inconsistent accounts of the tenancies at the 
property, provided false documents and had failed to substantiate rental payments. Zurich 
said the insureds had knowingly claimed for contents items they knew didnt belong to them 
 so had inflated the claim. 
In October 2019 the insureds came to this service. They said they wanted Zurich to accept 
the claim and cover their rental losses. In October 2021 our investigator considered the 
complaint. He felt Zurichs decision to refuse the claim was fair and reasonable. The 
insureds didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me.
In December 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I didnt intend to 
interfere in Zurichs decision to refuse the entire claim. Ive copied in my reasoning, from the 
provisional decision, below. I also asked the insureds and Zurich to provide any further 
information they would like me to consider before I issued a final decision.
This claim and its complaint have been ongoing for a number of years. So theres a 
lot of information and documentation for me to consider. As this is an informal 
service, I wont be addressing every document, issue and point here. Instead Ill 
focus on what I consider to be the main issues and evidence. But I would like to 
reassure both Zurich and the insureds that Ive considered everything provided. 
I should point out that the main consideration here isnt if the insureds had a tenant at 
the time of the fire  or if they were receiving rent prior to the fire. Instead I need to 
decide if Zurichs decision to refuse the claim, for it being exaggerated and supported 
by a false document, is fair and reasonable. My understanding is the law does allow 
for an insurer to refuse an entire claim if its exaggerated. An insurer can refuse even 
a genuine part of the claim. 
The kitchen area of the property was damaged by fire. The insureds provided an 
estimate to repair the kitchen and replace fixtures and fittings. The cost was almost 
£200,000. Zurich says the insureds didnt own the fixtures and fittings - so the claim 
was exaggerated. 
Theres been a few different tenants of the property since 2007. I can see the 
insureds did say to Zurich they only ever purchased good will of the existing business 
- never any of the restaurants contents, fixtures and fittings. Lease documents for 
previous tenants support the insureds. These say the fixtures and fittings belong to 
the landlords. 
However, Zurichs provided a record of a meeting with one of the previous tenants. Ill 
call him A. It reports A as claiming to have bought the fixtures and fittings, including 
kitchen items, when he took over the insureds business in 2007. He later sold the 
business on to tenant B. The insureds say B was the tenant at the time of the fire. 
And A is recorded as saying he sold the restaurants fixtures and fittings to B.
I havent seen any further documentation to support what A says. B hasnt provided 
anything useful either way. The insureds position had been to deny any fixtures and 
fittings were sold to any tenants. 
However, in July 2020, one the insureds, told this service, The contents were to be 
purchased by A when and if he paid the full price. Until then we retained ownership of 
contents. As he had not fulfilled that obligation we included the contents in the claim.
I cant see this was previously explained to Zurich at any point during the several 
years of communications with the insureds different representatives. Its inconsistent 
with the insureds previous position that only goodwill was sold  with fixtures and 
fitting remaining the property of the insureds. There may be a genuine explanation 
but I cant say Zurichs position, that the claim was exaggerated, is unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Moving on the disputed lease agreement. Theres been a great deal of 
correspondence between the insureds, their representatives and Zurich. Im not 
going to cover it in detail here, instead I refer only to the significant points.  
Early in the claim Zurich was provided with a letter of engagement dated August 
2014. This was from the insureds solicitor to B. It announces an intention to draft a 
lease for the property. But the signed copy of the lease for the property, provided by 
the insureds, has an earlier date of February 2014. 
The lease gives Bs registered company number  despite it not being incorporated 
until March 2014. And Zurich says B, when interviewed, denied signing a lease with 
the insureds. So Zurich feels the signed lease isnt genuine  but was created by the 
insureds to support the loss of rent claim.  
I accept there may be a genuine explanation for the lease. However, I can 
understand why Zurich has its concerns and feels the insureds have been inconsistent. The insureds have given an explanation that the lease was signed in 
May 2014 and backdated to the start of the tenancy in February of the same year. 
Although that doesnt clear up why the insureds solicitor issued the letter of 
engagement in August of the same year. 
The insureds havent provided much to confirm they were receiving rent up until the 
fire. So they havent really demonstrated their loss. On balance though, they probably 
did have a tenant, but that isnt the main consideration for me. 
Zurich feels the lease has been falsified to support the claim for loss of rent. As Ive 
said there may be genuine explanation  but I can understand why Zurich has its 
concerns. If the lease was the only issue, I might think it unfair for Zurich to refuse 
the claim. But overall, considering the kitchen part of the claim, I cant say Zurichs 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I accept the insureds withdrew the kitchen repair and contents part of their claim. But 
they did claim for it initially. So I feel its fair for Zurich to still take their actions into 
account and consider it as part of the wider claim. 
This hasnt been an easy complaint to consider. As I say its possible there are 
genuine explanations for the various concerns of Zurichs. But based on what Ive 
seen so far, I dont intend to interfere in its decision to refuse the entire claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither the insureds or Zurich provided a response to my provisional decision, so Ive 
nothing new to consider. I dont have any reason to change the position I set out above. So 
Im not going to interfere with Zurichs decision to refuse the entire claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not interfering in Zurich Insurance PLCs decision to refuse 
the entire claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mr A, Mr U 
and Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman