DRN-3308858
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage in 1989 and took out a PPI policy separately in 1991. 
They have said that the suitability of the policy wasnt taken into consideration when they 
took out the policy, or when the policy was renewed in 1996 and 2001. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed, as the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Weve 
set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion below
Firstly, Ive considered if Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B a fair choice when they took out the PPI. 
Seeing as theyd already had their mortgage for a few years before they took out the policy, I 
think they were aware that having the PPI wasnt a requirement of the mortgage. They had 
to fill out a separate PPI application form, in which they requested for the policy to cover     
Mr B only, which ties in with him being the primary earner at the time. So, I think they were 
aware they could adapt the policy to suit their circumstances if they wanted to. And on 
balance, I think they chose to take out the policy knowing they didnt have to. 
Due to the length of time thats passed since the sale, its not clear if Halifax gave advice to 
Mr and Mrs B at the time of the sale. Based on the paperwork available, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest they did give advice, but to be fair to Mr and Mrs B, Halifax has treated the sale as if 
it was advised. This means that Halifax had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B. 
As the policy was in Mr Bs name, Ive mostly considered his circumstances. And these show 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
Most importantly, Mr B was eligible for the cover. I understand that Mr and Mrs Bs main 
argument is that they had sufficient means to cover their payments if Mr B was unable to 
work. Theyve said that in 1991, Mr B had six months of sick pay available to him, plus 
around three months of redundancy and payment in lieu of notice. In addition, they had 
some savings they could rely on. But the policy could have covered their monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr B was unable to work due to sickness or 
involuntary redundancy. And this would be in addition to his work benefits. As they provided 
a longer period of cover than his work benefits provided, I still think they could have found 
the policy useful. And ultimately, I dont think this made the policy as a whole unsuitable for 
them.
In addition, there was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim.
I note that the policy renewed in 1996 and in 2001, though it was cancelled within the 30-day 
cooling off period in 2001. These werent new sales, instead they gave the option to Mr and 
Mrs B to continue on with the policies after a five-year interval. Because they werent a new 
sale, there wouldnt have been any advice or recommendations given at this stage. So, any 
changes in Mr Bs circumstances wouldnt have been assessed at that point, which is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs B as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and    
Mrs B would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
So for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. And I dont think 
Halifax needs to do anything to put things right.     
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman