DRN-2315859
The complaint
Mr C complained that I Go 4 Ltd (IGO4) charged him excessive fees when he cancelled 
his motor car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C bought his car insurance policy online using a website that compares prices of 
different insurers in the market. Around three months after buying his policy, his insurance 
needs changed. He said IGO4 were no longer competitive even after allowing for £125 of 
fees to exit his policy. So, he cancelled his policy and moved to a different insurer who 
provided a lower cost policy. A letter was sent out to Mr C confirming the cancellation and 
notification of the exit fees. As Mr C had paid part of his premium upfront, after the fees 
were taken, he was refunded the balance.
Mr C complained as he thought the fees were excessive. IGO4 said that the charges were 
set out when Mr C accepted and paid for the policy and included a £65 cancellation fee 
and £60 for the setting up of the policy when it was first taken out, which it said was non- 
refundable. IGO4 said this was set out in the terms and conditions that were accepted by 
Mr C.
Mr C said he thought the fees were unreasonable and estimated a reasonable cost as £25. 
He said IGO4 are not entitled to make a profit out of cancellation fees and it can only 
recover its costs. He said IGO4 have not demonstrated where the costs have come from 
and have not itemised them. Mr C said he was unable to cancel online because IG04 have 
taken a view it would rather speak directly to customers to try to persuade them to stay on 
rather than having an automated cancellation system.
Our investigator reviewed the case and his view was not to uphold the complaint as he 
thought IGO4 had correctly applied the terms of Mr Cs policy. Mr C still thought the 
fees were unreasonable, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although, Mr C has not complained specifically about the terms and conditions of his policy, 
I have chosen to check these to make sure IGO4 have applied these correctly. Mr C 
complained that the fees were excessive when he cancelled his motor car insurance policy. 
He mentioned a cancellation fee of £125. I have looked through the policy documents and I 
think it is worth clarifying the specific fee for cancellation was £65. The other £60 was a set- 
up fee that was charged when he set-up the policy. This had been charged already and 
would have been if he hadnt cancelled the policy early.
I can see the welcome letter sent from IGO4, shows that the £60 set-up fee that is included 
within your policy and non-refundable in the event of a cancellation and is charged to 
cover the cost for arranging and servicing a new policy. It also sets out that if the policy is 
cancelled after 14 days there is a £65 fee To cover the costs of administering the 
cancellation of your policy and notifying third parties.
As the set-up fee is non-refundable and the cancellation fee is chargeable if the policy is 
cancelled after 14 days, IGO4 have applied the terms of the policy correctly and have 
done nothing wrong in charging £125. They have followed the terms of the policy.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint was that he thought the fees IGO4 charged were excessive. 
Im going to disappoint Mr C, but I dont agree. Mr C is correct that a company shouldnt 
profit from the cancellation of a policy. The charges should reflect the time or cost of the 
tasks involved. I have considered what Mr C has estimated what the charge should be, but 
I havent seen enough to make me think the cancellation fee wasnt proportionate to the 
administrative task. The charges IGO4 have applied are consistent with what I would 
expect in the industry for a policy cancelled outside of the cooling off period. Therefore, I 
dont think IGO4 have been unreasonable.
Its important that Mr C had visibility of the fees when he took out his policy. I can see the 
fees were clearly set out in the welcome letter that Mr C received, so I think IGO4 have 
acted fairly. Mr C did provide evidence that he had a learning difficulty. Mr C did imply later 
that this wasnt relevant or didnt impact his claim. I have considered the evidence that 
was presented and whilst I recognise there is a learning difficulty, the evidence doesnt 
convince me that it would have impacted Mr Cs ability to understand his welcome letter.
In summary, I think IGO4 has applied their terms and conditions fairly, their costs 
seem reasonable and the fees were visible to Mr C. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require I Go 4 Ltd to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
Pete Averill
 
Ombudsman