DRN-1660349
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Paymentsense Limited mis-sold it a contract to provide 
card processing services in its shops. E says that there are several additional charges that 
werent disclosed in advance and the rates quoted in the contract are not those promised. It 
also says that the service and functionality provided were not what it wanted. 
E is represented in this complaint by an employee, Ms O. A director of E has also joined in 
the complaint. 
What happened
In July 2018, Ms O met with a representative of Paymentsense (the sales rep) to discuss 
moving Es contract for card processing services. The sales rep followed up the meeting with 
an email the same day setting out the rates he was aiming to give [E]. 
Ms O asked some further questions by email, which the sales rep answered. As she was 
satisfied with these answers, Ms O and one of Es directors met with the sales rep on 22 
August and signed the contract electronically.  
On 26 September, Ms O complained on Es behalf. She said that the rates given to E were 
different from those promised by the sales rep and there were additional charges not 
mentioned to her. 
Paymentsense replied. They said that, as they had no evidence from the point of sale, they 
had relied on what the contract said. And the rates and charges were all as set out in the 
contract. Nonetheless, they did agree to cancel three invoices that had already been 
received and remove an ongoing monthly gateway fee . 
Later, Paymentsense agreed to some further changes. They said they would: 
Cover cancellation costs from Es current providers 
Amend the rates payable to those set out in their agents email.
Pay for the first six months terminal rental for the linked terminal leasing agreement 
Remove all optional bolt-on services. 
 
They also said they had attempted to upgrade Es terminals at one of their shops, so that 
Ms O could integrate them with Es point of sale software, but they said Ms O had refused 
this. 
Ms O remained dissatisfied and would now like E to be released from the contracts. So she 
asked our service to investigate. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She concluded that Paymentsense hadnt fairly 
explained the charges in its contract. To put things right, she recommended that 
Paymentsense refund all their charges and fees from the start of the contract, clear any 
outstanding invoices and release E from the contract at no cost. She also recommended 
they pay a further £300 for the inconvenience theyd caused to E. Paymentsense disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They agreed that E had experienced issues but thought theyd done enough to put 
things right. They said:
The agreements were electronically signed by Es director on 22 August. They hadnt 
seen any evidence that the director thought she was signing for a different service 
from that which was set out in the contract. 
These agreements were then automatically sent to the email address used for 
signing, so that E had copies of them. 
The agreements were signed through a field agent. They had no minutes or other 
record from these meetings. 
Any notes taken by Ms O from the meetings didnt form part of the agreement 
between E and Paymentsense. 
They felt theyd done everything they could to resolve things with E and put the 
company into the position it had expected to be in. But as E hadnt agreed with their 
proposals, they hadnt made the changes. 
They realised that E still wasnt using their services. But they didnt think it was fair to 
require them to refund any further fees or compensate them for any inconvenience. 
 
As Paymentsense didnt agree, it falls to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Ill explain why below. 
E already had a contract for card services for its shops. Ms O has told us that she was 
interested in shopping around in the hope of finding a cheaper service that would integrate 
with the shops point of sale software, which Es current card service couldnt. I see no 
reason to disbelieve this. Given the existing contract, Im persuaded that E would only have 
transferred if Ms O thought E was getting cheaper services, or at least, enhanced 
functionality at a comparable price. The evidence shows that she was led to believe E would 
get both, but ended up with neither.
Es problem with the Paymentsense contract seems to me to be two-fold. First, E feels it was 
misled about the pricing of the card services. And second, it says that Paymentsense failed 
to provide the services promised in the contract anyway, organising the wrong terminals, 
then failing to correct the problems.  
Paymentsenses argument is essentially that E signed the contract and should therefore be 
bound by its terms. They havent disputed Es version of the discussions around the sale. 
Theres no dispute that the sales rep was acting as Paymentsenses agent. So 
Paymentsense are responsible for his actions in relation to the sale. 
Ms O has provided detailed notes, which she says she made immediately following her 
meeting with the sales rep. Paymentsense has pointed out that these notes didnt form part 
of the contract. This is correct. But they do form part of the evidence in this case and it is for 
me to decide how much weight to attach to them. No testimony from the sales rep appears to be available. But the email he sent after the 
meeting confirms exactly the rates that he was aiming to give E. And there is a subsequent 
email exchange, in which Ms O asks a series of explicit questions, to which the sales rep 
gives direct answers. These answers were at odds with what was in the contract. 
Ms Os notes are logical and contain a plausible account of the meeting. They are also 
consistent with the exchange of emails with the sales rep that followed them. For these 
reasons, I think its more likely than not that Ms Os notes are an accurate record of events. 
In my view, these show that the sales rep led Ms O to believe that the rates would be 
different from those in the final contract. And he misled her about what other charges there 
might be. 
I therefore conclude that Paymentsense, through its sales rep, misled E about the contract, 
leading Es director to think she was signing up for a different product.  
As a general rule, I would expect individuals to read contracts before signing them. But in 
this case, E had been misled by the sales reps communications and the false assurances of 
no other fees he had given. Overall, I think in the particular circumstances of this case, it is 
understandable that the director didnt read the contract before signing. 
Having said this, I can see that Paymentsense has changed its position considerably over 
the course of Es complaint. It agreed to match the rates and charges E thought it was 
getting. I think this was the right thing to do. However, it hasnt helped resolve the second 
part of Es problem, about the service itself. 
E has provided me with a detailed timeline of all its contacts with Paymentsense, showing a 
considerable amount of problems with getting E established with the new system. These 
problems have never been resolved. This matches the evidence of lengthy email chains also 
provided. So I have concluded it shows an accurate record of events. 
Part of the sales reps pitch was, as set out in his email that he would personally manage 
the transition and coordinate the installation of the new terminals with yourself. Ive seen no 
evidence that this happened. And I can see that this was important to E, as Ms O pursued 
this idea of one point of contact in emails. 
As Ive already said, it was also important for E to have an integrated solution, which would 
link its merchant services to its point of sale software. The sales rep said Paymentsense 
could provide this, but this hasnt happened. Paymentsense argues that this is in part 
because Ms O failed to co-operate with them. I can see that, after a certain point, she lost 
faith in their ability to fulfil the contract and started asking for it to be cancelled. But given the 
amount of time and effort expended by that time, I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Its evident that E has never used Paymentsenses services. Im satisfied that the 
responsibility for this lies with Paymentsense, which, despite many emails and phone calls 
exchanged, have never managed to get the right services in place to meet Es needs. 
To recap, Im satisfied that E only signed the contracts with Paymentsense because it was 
misled. If the contracts and the service offered had been fairly and clearly explained, I think 
E would have stayed with its existing merchant services provider. And even accepting that 
Paymentsense has changed its pricing to match what the sales rep promised, I dont think E 
should be bound by the contracts, since Paymentsense have failed to provide the promised 
service. Putting things right
I understand that, since our involvement, Paymentsense have now agreed to cancel the 
contracts with effect from January/ February 2020. I agree with our investigator that they 
should go further than this. I think that Paymentsense should put E back in the position it 
would have been in if it had never changed providers. Im therefore directing Paymentsense 
to refund any charges and fees taken from the date the contract began. They must also 
cancel any outstanding invoices. 
In addition to this, Im satisfied that Paymentsenses actions have caused considerable 
inconvenience to E. Ms O has had to spend a lot of time and effort in trying, unsuccessfully, 
to resolve things with Paymentsense. For a business of Es size, this will have been a 
distraction and a material drain on limited resources. Im going to direct Paymentsense to 
pay £300 for the inconvenience it has caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. I direct Paymentsense Limited to 
cancel any outstanding invoices under the contracts and refund any charges or fees paid 
from the date the contracts began until cancellation. Paymentsense Limited should also pay 
E the equivalent in Euros of £300 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman