DRN-3305523
The complaint
Ms L complains that through the involvement of Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide), 
her builder was wrongfully accused of fraud when she wanted to pursue a refund against 
him. This has impacted her emotionally and has caused conflict between her and the builder.
What happened
Ms L used a builder to complete some work on her home. While work had been carried out 
on her property, Ms L believed it was to a low standard. Unhappy with the work completed, 
she wished to recover her money. She says the builder told her he was closing his business 
and so, after getting some advice, she decided to contact Nationwide to recover her money.
In July 2020, Ms L contacted Nationwide and explained what happened and she says they 
would be able to help through their payment recovery process. She says Nationwide told her 
that the information she provided over the phone would be passed onto the builders bank to 
recover the funds.
Ms L received a letter from Nationwide in September 2020 explaining she was a victim of a 
scam, but she says no other information was provided. So, in February 2021, she started 
court proceedings against the builder.
Ms L says that the builders testimony to the courts were that his bank accounts had been 
frozen, including his joint account with his wife. The builder believed this was due to Ms L 
telling Nationwide that he took the money from her fraudulently.
Ms L didnt believe she did tell Nationwide that the builder took her money fraudulently, and 
so, requested copies of the calls she had with them. Ms L complained to Nationwide as she 
didnt feel the information she gave them was recorded correctly. And as a result, it has 
caused conflict between herself and the builder. 
In June 2021, Nationwide agreed they made a mistake and wrongfully submitted a form to 
their financial crime team, rather than directing her to the courts or to Trading Standards. So 
they gave her £150 as compensation as well as a final response letter confirming it was 
never Ms Ls intention to put the builder in the position he found himself in.
Ms L referred her complaint to our service. Ms L also says she is in a constant state of 
anxiety and is worried that the builders wife will also take her to court as their joint bank 
account has also been frozen. 
Our investigator believed Nationwide must do more to put things right for Ms L and asked 
them to pay her an additional £150 in compensation. So, £300 in total. She reached this 
conclusion by considering how long Ms L was impacted by Nationwides mistake and to what 
extent.
Nationwide agreed with the investigators view, but Ms L disagreed. She felt the 
compensation amount wasnt enough. And so, this complaint was passed to me to decide 
on.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2022 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Ms Ls complaint. In that decision I said:
Ms L contacted Nationwide to enquire about their payment recovery process. This was as a 
result of receiving poor workmanship from her builder on work she was having completed on 
her home. During Ms Ls contact with Nationwide, a form was completed and submitted on 
behalf of Ms L, which led to a fraud investigation being logged against Ms Ls builder.
Nationwide has agreed the wrong process was followed and they should never have 
reported this incident to their financial crime department. They also agree Ms L didnt say 
she had been a victim of fraud or a scam. As compensation Nationwide offered £150 for 
their mistake. But following our investigators findings, they agreed to increase the 
compensation by another £150, to £300 in total. As Nationwide doesnt dispute they had 
made a mistake, my role is to consider whether the offer of compensation made is fair in the 
circumstances.
Ms L has provided information to show the impact Nationwides mistake has had on her 
builder and his family. I must be clear that I cant award compensation to a third party, and 
only to the eligible complainant of the complaint, in this instance, Ms L. But I can consider if 
Nationwides error and its impact to the builder has a knock-on effect on Ms L. So, my role in 
this instance is to consider the impact Nationwides mistake has had on Ms L and whether 
the compensation awarded is enough.
Its also important that Im fair to both sides. My role isnt to fine or punish a business. My 
role is to make an award that recognises the impact a businesss mistake had on the 
complainant.
In this instance, Nationwide submitted a form to their financial crime department around the 
time Ms L contacted them in July 2020. Shortly after, Ms L says she was contacted by her 
builder to say his accounts had been frozen. The builder blamed Ms L for his accounts being 
frozen.
I do note that while ultimately, Nationwide are not responsible for the actions the builders 
bank has taken in freezing their customers accounts, if it wasnt for their mistake of following 
the wrong process, the unnecessary conflict Ms L has experienced with her builder would 
likely have been avoided.
Over the next few weeks and months, Ms L received further contact from her builder and 
family as they believed she gave wrong information to Nationwide which led to their 
accounts being frozen. Ms L was unaware at this time that Nationwide had made a mistake 
and was understandably distressed at being blamed for the builders accounts being frozen. 
She says she believed she was at fault. Ms L was so worried that she installed a camera 
doorbell for her own safety.
During court proceedings, Ms L says it came to light Nationwide contacted the builders bank 
to complete the necessary investigation into their customer. Ms L further learned of the 
impact this had on her builder and his family. Understandably, hearing this information was 
shocking and distressing to Ms L.
Once Ms L heard what Nationwide did, she made an enquiry to them which led to them 
admitting they made a mistake.
For around ten months, from late July 2020 until early June 2021, Ms L believed she had 
correctly followed Nationwides process of recovering her money and this led to her builder being in the position he was in. Ms L had no reason to think Nationwide had made a 
mistake, until she made the enquiry to them. Over the ten months, she felt guilty and 
responsible for the builders accounts being frozen when it wasnt her mistake.
During that time she regularly received contact from her builder, and says she still has 
anxiety from the threat of possible court proceedings. Nationwide has provided a letter to 
help explain their mistake and Ms L has managed to share this information with the builder 
to show it wasnt her mistake. However, Ms L remains worried about what the builder might 
do because she started the process with Nationwide.
Ms L has gone into detail and explained the impact Nationwides mistake has had on her. 
She says she has been anxious since her builder first stated this was all her fault and that 
his wife may also take her to court. She says shes had to increase her anxiety medication 
and she worries when the post arrives, especially if it is a letter she doesnt recognise. She 
also says she lives alone and for her safety she purchased a camera doorbell. Ive also 
noted Ms Ls comments to us where she says it was, a terrible mistake that [the builders] 
accounts were closed  an awfully huge mistake for Nationwide to make
In this instance, I think Ms L has suffered considerable distress, upset and worry as a result 
of Nationwides mistake. This mistake resulted in significant inconvenience for Ms L, where 
she had to prove to her builder that it wasnt her mistake that led to his accounts being 
frozen. The impact of Nationwides mistake lasted many months and she says it still 
continues to worry her.
Im persuaded by what Ms L has told us and Im empathetic to the impact this has had on 
her. Having a threat of legal proceedings could reasonably cause distress  the extent of 
which would be heightened for someone who already experiences anxiety.
I set out what I intended to instruct Nationwide to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Nationwide responded and said they accepted my provisional decision.
Ms L responded and said she is happy to accept my provisional decision if it will ensure 
Nationwide put some sort of assessment of telephone calls in place, to ensure quality control 
into their routines.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions.
But I do want to explain that it is not the role of the ombudsman service and within our remit 
to instruct businesses on how they should conduct themselves. In this instance, my role is to 
consider the impact their mistake has had on Ms L and instruct them on how they should put 
things right for this complaint.Putting things right
Having considered the impact Nationwides mistake has had on Ms L, I think it is fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to pay a total of £750 for the trouble and upset this has caused 
her.
Nationwide may deduct any compensation they have already paid her in relation to this 
matter from the above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Nationwide Building Society should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman