DRN-1852122
 
complaint
Mr A complains that First Complete Ltd made an error on his income protection application 
form, and also didnt ask him some relevant medical questions. 
background
On 28 February 2019, Mr A was sold an income protection policy by First Complete. The 
sale took place over the phone. 
Later that year Mr A stopped working because of illness, and submitted a claim to the 
insurer. During the insurers assessment of the claim, it found that Mr A hadnt told it relevant 
information about his health  namely that hed taken medication for alcoholism, and had 
received therapy for alcohol dependence. It said if it had known this information when hed 
applied for the policy, it wouldnt have been able to offer him cover. It therefore voided the 
policy from the start, and returned the premiums paid. 
Mr A brought a complaint to this service about the sale of the policy. He says he told First 
Complete that he was a recovering alcoholic and hadnt had any alcohol since 2017. Despite 
this, the adviser recorded the wrong information on the application form about his alcohol 
consumption. He also says the adviser didnt ask him about medication or therapy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He accepted that Mr A had told 
First Complete he didnt drink alcohol, and so First Complete had incorrectly recorded 
information about his alcohol consumption on the application. However, ultimately, he didnt 
think this made a difference to the matter, as there were other questions which hadnt been 
answered correctly, which led to the insurer voiding the policy.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, First Complete didnt record the sales call between Mr A and its adviser when 
the policy was sold. This is disappointing  Id expect First Complete to record important 
calls such as this, in order to demonstrate that insurance sales have been conducted 
appropriately. I hope First Complete will take on board my comments about this.
As we dont know what was discussed between Mr A and First Complete, Ive looked at the 
available documentary evidence. 
Following the sales call, First Complete emailed Mr A several documents, including the 
income protection application form. It asked him to check all the details were correct on that 
form, as any incorrect information may result in the policy not paying out in the event of a 
claim. The attached application form included a list of medical questions and Mr As answers. I 
think its reasonable to assume this was a correct reflection of the questions Mr A was 
asked, as he didnt raise any concerns about the questions with First Complete after hed 
received the email. 
One of the questions asked How much alcohol do you drink in an average week? The 
answer to this was left blank. It then said Pints of ordinary strength beer, lager or cider (less 
than 5% strength) and the answer given was four.
After the insurer turned down Mr As claim, he contacted the adviser at First Complete and 
said Aviva were claiming that his application form said he drank four drinks a week. He 
pointed out that he was a recovering alcoholic and hadnt drunk alcohol for over two years. 
Mr A also said that the application asked if hed ever had support with his drinking, but he 
didnt remember the adviser asking about this. 
First Complete has explained that when the application was processed, because the answer 
was left blank in response to the amount of alcohol drank in a week, it answered that Mr A 
drank four pints a week as this was the average. As the investigator has pointed out, this 
shouldnt have happened. 
Ive therefore thought about the impact the error had on Mr A. 
I think its important to point out that Mr A brought a separate complaint to this service about 
the insurer. I issued a decision on that case, and concluded that there was only one question 
in the application form that Mr A had answered incorrectly (although this still led to the 
voidance of his policy). That question related to medication. 
Mr A hasnt disputed that the answer to that question was wrong. But he says he wasnt 
asked about medication. 
As Ive said, I dont know what Mr A was asked during the sales call, but I think its fair to 
assume the copy of the application form he was sent was an accurate reflection of the 
questions asked. I therefore think its reasonable to conclude that Mr As answer to the 
question relating to medication reflected what hed told the adviser during the phone call. 
Although First Complete did incorrectly record that Mr A had four alcoholic drinks a week, Im 
satisfied this didnt make any difference to the insurers decision to void the policy. That 
decision was based on Mr As answer to the question about medication, which wasnt 
correct. 
Mr A seems to be under the impression that First Completes error conflicted with the 
information in his medical reports, and it was this which led to the insurer requesting further 
information, which in turn led to it voiding his policy. Im not persuaded by this. Based on the 
information Ive seen from the insurer, it seems that when it received information relating to 
Mr As claim, it was apparent from this that he was previously dependent on alcohol and 
taking the medication in question. 
Consequently, whilst its clear First Complete did make an error, I dont think this caused Mr 
A any inconvenience or financial loss. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman