DRN-2139931
The complaint
Mrs B complains about six instalment loans that she took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading 
as Lending Stream, (LS). The complaint is brought to this service on Mrs Bs behalf by a 
claims management company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by 
Mrs B.
What happened
This complaint is about six short term loans LS provided to Mrs B between August 2015 and 
April 2016. The loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. Loans 4 to 6 havent been 
repaid and have been sold to a third party, (T). Mrs Bs lending history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 9/8/15 15/2/16 £150
2. 27/9/15 15/4/16 £620
3. 17/11/15 15/3/16 £260
4. 7/3/16 Unpaid £450
5. 16/3/16 Unpaid £190
6. 17/4/16 Unpaid £130
Mrs B said that she had numerous loans from different companies. She had to take out 
loans to survive and to pay her other loans off.
LS said that it had asked Mrs B for her monthly income and expenditure. It had used national 
average amounts for expenses and revised Mrs Bs stated expenditure upwards and this still 
resulted in a viable disposable income. LS had also made checks with the credit reference 
agency (CRA) and the CRA confirmed a rating which was satisfactory for all the loan 
obligations. LS also said that it had checked Mrs Bs other credit obligations which met all 
reasonable affordability criteria. 
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mrs Bs complaint about Loans 4 and 6 should be 
upheld. He said that from the information about Mrs Bs income and expenses before 
Loan 4, Mrs B didnt have enough disposable income to make her repayments. And by 
Loan 6 proportionate checks would have most likely shown that Mrs B was having problems 
managing her money. He said that Mrs B had other outstanding loans with other payday 
lenders in addition to Loans 4 and 5. So it was unlikely that Mrs B would have been able to 
sustainably repay Loan 6.
LS responded to say that considering the points raised in the adjudicators view, it offered to 
refund the interest and charges paid on Loans 4 to 6, pay 8% interest on those refunds and 
remove the entries about those loans from Mrs Bs credit file. As there was an outstanding 
balance on Loans 4 to 6, after applying the refunded amounts to that balance, there was still 
an outstanding balance of £43.70 to pay. But LS said that this didnt include the balances 
held by T. LS also said that if Mrs B was facing financial difficulties, it would extend support 
in clearing her debt through an affordable payment arrangement. 
The adjudicator told Mrs B about LSs offer. Mrs B noted that LSs offer didnt include the 
balances with T and she asked the adjudicator to ask LS if this meant that T would leave her 
alone.
The adjudicator raised Mrs Bs query with LS but this service hasnt received a response 
from LS to Mrs Bs query. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs B 
and to LS on 28 July 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when LS lent to Mrs B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important to say that LS was required to establish whether Mrs B could 
sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mrs Bs complaint.
I noted that LS had made a number of checks before it lent to Mrs B. It asked her for details 
of her monthly income and expenditure. Mrs Bs declared income was around £1,700 for all 
the loans. Mrs B had declared her expenditure as between £725 and £1,175 for all the loans 
but LS had increased the expenditure amounts to between £1,010 and £1,460. 
LS said that it had also checked Mrs Bs credit file before agreeing to the loans. Id seen brief 
results from LSs credit checks.
It didnt appear that wed received Mrs Bs credit report.
Id said that each of Mrs Bs loans was repayable by six monthly instalments. So, the 
amounts that Mrs B needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal 
payday loan. But she was also committing to making those repayments over a far longer 
period. In addition, Mrs B sometimes had a number of loans outstanding at the same time. 
So, Id considered the total amount that Mrs B needed to repay to LS each month. 
Loan 1 was for £150. I could see that LSs credit check showed that Mrs B had four active 
accounts and a credit score of 717. I could also see that the repayments that Mrs B needed 
to make were relatively modest compared to the income that shed declared to LS. The 
highest repayment amount for Loan 1 was £66. I didnt think the repayment amounts for 
Loan 1 were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mrs B financial difficulty.
So, given Mrs Bs repayment amounts for Loan 1 and that this was her first loan with LS, 
overall I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to have asked her for the amount 
of information that would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And 
overall at that stage, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mrs B 
was saying.  So, I didnt think LS was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mrs B.
Mrs B took out Loan 2 whilst Loan 1 was still outstanding. The loan amount and repayment 
amounts had significantly increased. The total monthly repayment amounts for Loans 1 and 
2 were a significant proportion of Mrs Bs disposable income. I thought this might have 
caused LS some concerns and should have prompted LS to do some additional checks such 
as gathering more information about Mrs Bs other short term borrowing. As far as I could 
see it didnt do this.
So, I needed to think about what LS wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
We asked Mrs B for copies of her bank statements and credit report so we could see what 
better checks would have shown LS. She didnt provide these to us. So, I wasnt able to say 
that better checks would have shown LS that it shouldnt have lent Loan 2 to Mrs B. 
Loans 1 and 2 were still outstanding when Mrs B took out Loan 3. This meant that her 
highest total monthly loan repayments would be around £377 which was a significant 
proportion of her disposable income. LSs credit check showed that Mrs B had five active 
accounts. Id also noted that Mrs B had applied for a loan of £300, but LS had provided    
Mrs B with the lower amount of £260 so it might have had some concerns about Mrs Bs 
finances. I thought all this should again have prompted LS to carry out more checks and I 
thought that it might have been proportionate for LS to have independently reviewed the true 
state of Mrs Bs finances. As far as I could see it didnt do this.So, I needed to think about what LS wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
But as wed not received bank statements nor a credit report from Mrs B, I wasnt able to say 
that better checks would have shown LS that it shouldnt have lent Loan 3 to Mrs B. 
By the time Mrs B took out Loan 4, LSs credit checks showed that she had eight active 
credit accounts and a delinquent account one month previously. Her credit score had 
dropped to 563. Mrs Bs declared credit commitments had increased to £475. Loans 2 and 3 
were still outstanding and Mrs B had missed a payment on Loan 2 around two months 
earlier. I thought all this might have suggested that Mrs B was having problems managing 
her money. But it was also clear that the total monthly repayments for her loans were greater 
than her disposable income as adjusted by LS. So as a responsible lender I didnt think it 
should have agreed to lend Loan 4 to her.
Mrs B took out Loan 5 the day after Loan 3 was repaid and only nine days after shed taken 
out Loan 4. So, Id thought it likely that Mrs B was needing to borrow again from LS in order 
to fill the hole in her finances that was made by repaying Loan 3. This wasnt a sustainable 
form of borrowing. Loans 2 and 4 were still outstanding and after paying the total repayment 
amounts for the three loans, Mrs B wouldnt have been left with enough money for any 
unexpected costs. So, again as a responsible lender, I didnt think LS should have agreed to 
lend Loan 5 to Mrs B.
Mrs B took out Loan 6 two days after Loan 2 was repaid. Again, I thought it likely that Mrs B 
was needing to borrow again from LS in order to fill the hole in her finances that was made 
by repaying Loan 2. Loans 3 and 4 were still outstanding. I could see that LS must have 
been concerned by Mrs Bs situation as shed applied for a loan of £380 but was provided 
with the much lower amount of £130. I could also see that the total amount borrowed for 
Loans 4, 5 and 6 was equal to the total amount Mrs B borrowed on Loans 1 and 2. So I 
didnt think that Mrs B was making any inroads to the amount she owed LS. 
Looking at the overall pattern of LSs lending history with Mrs B I thought by Loan 6 the 
lender should have reached the point where it would reasonably have concluded that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. I thought that Mrs B had lost out because 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. And the 
number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Bs ability to access 
mainstream credit and so had kept her in the market for these high-cost loans. So, I didnt 
think that LS should have provided Loan 6 to Mrs B.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs B or LS my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order LS to pay Mrs B some 
compensation relating to Loans 4, 5 and 6 and say that it should put things right as shown 
below. I also said that Mrs B was welcome to send this service her bank statements or 
similar evidence for the period August to December 2015 in her response to this provisional 
decision and I would reconsider Loans 2 and 3 before reaching my final decision.
putting things right  what LS needs to do
If LS has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If LS isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:-
1. LS should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balances on Loans 
4, 5 and 6, and treat any repayments made by Mrs B on Loans 4, 5 and 6 as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on the respective loans. 2. If reworking Mrs Bs accounts on Loans 4, 5 and 6 as Id directed results in Mrs B 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed on those 
accounts, then LS should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to 
the date of settlement.
3. If reworking Mrs Bs loan accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid on Loans 
4, 5 and 6 then I remind LS that it should take a positive and sympathetic view when 
seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B for the revised balance. LS 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written off. 
 
4.LS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file with regard 
to Loans 4, 5 and 6 and remove Loan 6 entirely from Mrs Bs credit file once the capital 
amount of this loan has been repaid (if Sunny buys the loans back). If Loans 4, 5 and 6 
have to remain with T, then Sunny is to assist Mrs B, so far as its able, to correct her 
credit file record in line with the requirements of this paragraph.
*HMRC requires LS to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs B asks LS for a certificate 
showing how much tax LS has taken off, it should provide this. If LS intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mrs B owes, it must do this after tax.
Mrs B responded to my provisional decision by submitting excerpts from two of her bank 
statements for the periods 29 July to 10 August 2015 and 15 to 25 April 2016.
LS hasnt provided any further information in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Mrs B has sent us excerpts from two of her bank statements for the periods       
29 July to 10 August 2015 and 15 to 25 April 2016. But I would have needed to see at the 
very least complete bank statements for the month commencing 27 August 2015 and the 
month commencing 17 October 2015 to see what better checks would have shown LS on 
Loans 2 and 3. As Ive not received these, or any further information from the parties, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require LS to pay Mrs B some compensation 
and take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to pay Mrs B compensation 
and take the following steps:-.
If LS has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If LS isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:-1. LS should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balances on 
Loans 4, 5 and 6, and treat any repayments made by Mrs B on Loans 4, 5 and 6 as 
though they had been repayments of the principal on the respective loans. 
2. If reworking Mrs Bs accounts on Loans 4, 5 and 6 as Id directed results in Mrs B  
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed on those  
accounts, then LS should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*    
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date of settlement.
3. If reworking Mrs Bs loan accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid on 
Loans 4, 5 and 6 then I remind LS that it should take a positive and sympathetic view 
when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B for the revised 
balance. LS shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written off. 
 
4. LS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file with 
regard to Loans 4, 5 and 6 and remove Loan 6 entirely from Mrs Bs credit file once 
the capital amount of this loan has been repaid (if Sunny buys the loans back). If 
Loans 4, 5 and 6 have to remain with T, then Sunny is to assist Mrs B, so far as its 
able, to correct her credit file record in line with the requirements of this paragraph.
*HMRC requires LS to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs B asks LS for a certificate 
showing how much tax LS has taken off, it should provide this. If LS intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mrs B owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman