DRN-1554890
complaint
Mr P complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold his home insurance policy to 
him. He says he was misled to believe his contents were covered for £150,000, rather than 
£75,000.
background
Mr P suffered a fire at his home, and he made a claim. During the claim he was informed by 
his insurer that his contents were insured for £75,000. But he says he understood his 
contents to be insured for £150,000.
Mr P points towards the endorsement sections of his policy schedule and policy booklet. On 
his schedule theres a section titled: endorsements that apply to this policy  and in this 
section it states: 
Endorsements are the changes to the terms of your policy. Please refer to the 
endorsement section of your policy booklet for full details. 
In the endorsement section of the policy booklet eleven endorsements are shown numbered 
E01 to E11. The final one is titled: increased contents cover  and it states: 
The following amendments are applicable to your policy. The General Conditions 
section of your policy booklet is amended from £75,000 to £150,000 for your contents 
cover.
However, the insurer said although there are endorsements detailed in the policy booklet, 
none of them applied to Mr Ps policy as they are not listed on his policy schedule. It also 
highlighted the contents section of the policy schedule which shows a figure of £75,000.
Mr P said if no endorsements applied to his policy, non-applicable should have been stated 
in the endorsements section of his schedule, noting this phrase was used in other sections. 
He says this ambiguity led him to believe the E11 endorsement applied  and had it not he 
would have increased his contents cover. He says that without the phrase non-applicable, 
his policy schedule shows the endorsements listed in the policy booklet apply. 
Mr P brought a complaint to this service against the insurer. I considered that complaint and 
decided the insurer had applied the policy terms fairly when concluding his contents were 
insured for £75,000. In my final decision on that complaint, I said:
Mr Ps policy schedule clearly shows his contents cover is £75,000, and theres no mention 
of £150,000 on that document. So, whilst I also agree the addition of non-applicable in the 
endorsements section of the schedule would be helpful if none apply, I dont consider the 
schedule itself misleads Mr P about the amount of his contents cover.  
The schedule refers Mr P to the endorsements section in his policy booklet  and due to the 
way the E11 endorsement is worded, if read in isolation, I can see how a misunderstanding 
might occur. But Im not persuaded I can reasonably consider the endorsement in isolation, 
without referring to the accompanying information in that same section. In my opinion, that 
section makes sufficiently clear an endorsement only applies if its number is listed in the 
policy schedule  this information is clearly set out right before the endorsements are 
detailed.
Mr P had also brought a complaint to us against Hastings, the broker that sold the policy, 
which is the complaint Im now considering here.
Hastings didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. It pointed towards the sale and renewal 
documents and it thought the £75,000 contents limit was clear. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint, and he agreed with Hastings. Mr P remained unhappy, so his 
complaint against Hastings has also been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr P says the policy was mis-sold because he wasnt provided with enough contents cover; 
and he says the policy documents led him to believe he had £150,000 cover, rather than 
£75,000.
Hastings says the policy was originally taken out on-line, in 2013. Mr P hasnt disputed the 
policy was taken out via an internet application, so I accept what Hastings says. Hastings 
hasnt provided us with anything to show what the on-line application process would have 
entailed, but Ive considered the point of sale documents it has provided, and the 
subsequent annual renewal documents leading up to the fire claim in 2018.
Ive seen an unsigned copy of the proposal form from 2013. The form shows details such as 
Mr Ps personal information, the property to be insured, his previous insurer, and his chosen 
policy excesses and policy limits. The contents limit shown is £75,000. Although unsigned, 
given the information contained in this form, I consider it likely that it represents the details 
Mr P provided during the sale process. So, on balance, Im persuaded that he selected 
£75,000 contents cover, not £150,000.
The point of sale and renewal documentation made it clear that Hastings wasnt giving Mr P 
advice about the suitability of the policy or recommending it to him  but rather, it was his 
responsibility to make sure the policy met his needs. Because the sale was non-advised, 
Hastings didnt have to check if the policy was right for Mr P. But it did have to give him 
information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that he could make an informed 
choice about whether to take the policy out. 
The 2013 policy schedule stated that the contents sum insured was £75,000, along with this 
statement: Your contents sum insured must be enough to cover the full replacement cost of 
all your contents as new. This same information was shown in every subsequent renewal 
policy schedule, along with a clearly highlighted warning that cover should be reviewed, 
including the total amount of contents cover required. None of the schedules Ive been 
shown mention £150,000.
In the endorsement section of the policy schedule that applied at the time of the fire, Mr P is 
referred to the endorsement section of the policy booklet. As explained in my decision about the insurer, I accept the addition of non-applicable in the endorsement section on the policy 
schedule would have made matters a little clearer; but in the context of the information in the 
policy booklet, Im not persuaded the information Hastings gave to Mr P was unclear, unfair, 
or misleading. At the beginning of the endorsement section in the policy booklet it clearly 
states: 
An endorsement only applies if its number is shown on your current policy 
schedule. 
Furthermore, in 2013 and 2014 there was an endorsement shown on the policy schedule for 
an escape of water excess, and the section didnt refer Mr P to his policy booklet at this time. 
So, given an endorsement was shown on his schedule, but not the increased contents limit 
endorsement, Im not persuaded Mr P would have understood he had taken out £150,000 
cover.
Im not persuaded Hastings misled Mr P. Of the arguments presented, Im more persuaded it 
gave him sufficiently clear information to enable an informed choice, or for him to ask the 
appropriate questions. 
So, having carefully considered the proposal form and policy documents, Im not persuaded 
the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, and to hear of the impact the situation has had on his health. 
But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman