DRN-3698155
The complaint
Mr D complains about esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) handling of a claim made by a third-
party against him, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D was advised by esure that a third party was making a claim against his motor 
insurance policy. But he says he isnt aware of an incident where he caused any damage to 
another vehicle. 
Mr D says he recalls one incident when two men jumped out of a van to check if any 
damage had been caused to the back of it. This was in June 2021. They told Mr D no 
contact had been made by his car, and that he wouldnt hear from them again. He says he 
took some photos of the van when this happened.
esure says it arranged for an inspection of Mr Ds car. Damage was found to the front end, 
which weakened Mr Ds position that no contact had been made with the van. It says it 
hasnt always communicated well with Mr D during this period. It apologised for this and 
offered him £150 compensation. 
esure says it cant close down the claim unless the third-party withdraws it. It says its 
currently disputing the amount of the repair costs claimed by the third-party, but it is 
considering settlement of the claim.
Mr D doesnt think there is a valid claim to settle, or that esure has acted in his best 
interests. So, he asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He pointed to the policy terms that give esure discretion to settle any claim. He 
thought it had acted fairly in trying to defend Mr Ds position, but the evidence weakened this 
to a point where it was reasonable for esure to consider settling.
Mr D didnt this outcome was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mr Ds policy terms to understand what is expected when a claim is made. The 
terms under the heading, General Conditions say:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit. You 
and anyone covered by the policy must provided all the information, documentation and help 
we need to do this. 
This means that its for esure to decide how to it wants to deal with the claim against Mr Ds 
policy and whether to accept liability or not. Most motor insurance policies contain this term. 
But we still expect any decision on liability to be based on the facts and evidence. 
I can see that esure considered several different sources of information. This includes the 
photos Mr D sent of the rear of the van that was the subject of the claim as well as providing 
his account of what happened. It also had sight of the engineers report the third-partys 
insurer arranged of Mr Ds car. This was arranged about a month after the incident to inspect 
for any damage.
Ive read the report in full and examined the photos to understand what the engineer found. 
The engineer explains the purpose of the report is to examine the vehicle for damage 
consistent with it being involved in an accident. He says special attention was paid to the 
front bumper and adjacent panels. The engineer noted the following areas of damage:
1. Damage to the right hand corner of the front bumper at a height of 28-56 cm from ground 
level.
2. Damage along the length of the front bumper and lower front grille at a height of 19-56 cm 
from ground level.
3. Damage to the right hand front wing and side of the front bumper at a height of 45-68 cm 
from ground level.  
The photos of the damage included with the report correspond with the areas of damage the 
engineer identified. In his report the engineer suggested that an inspection of the third-party 
vehicle may assist in confirming whether this damage is consistent with the damage to the 
other vehicle.
I can see that esure requested images of the damage to the third-partys van so that a 
comparison could be made. It says this was delayed until February 2022. esure says its 
engineers have now considered the photos and have asked for further details of the repairs 
and labour costs as some inconsistencies have been found. But it says its very likely that it 
will need to settle a proportion of the third partys repair costs, given the available evidence. 
Ive also seen the photos Mr D took of the third-partys van. I can see some marks on the 
bumper that look to match the marks visible on the photos the third-partys insurer supplied. 
The photos Mr D supplied dont cover all the areas shown in the images supplied by the third 
partys insurer and arent as clear. Having examined these images I dont think Mr Ds 
photos clearly support his argument that there was no contact between his car and the third-
partys van. 
Mr D says that his car had previously been classified as a category D write-off, as mentioned 
by the engineer who inspected his car. I understand the point he is making that the damage 
couldve resulted from an earlier collission. But he hasnt shown that this damage relates to a 
previous accident from 2014, when the Cat-D was recorded.   
I understand that Mr D feels strongly that there was no contact between his car and the third 
partys vehicle. But the engineer that inspected his car found damage consistent with a 
collision to the front end. And the photos of the third-partys vehicle show damage to the rear 
bumper and back doors. The indication being that both vehicles have suffered damage due 
to a collision consistent with the third-partys claim. esure says it has some concerns that Mr D changed his account of events. It says during the 
call when the claim was first discussed he denied any knowledge of the incident and didnt 
know the location where this had allegedly happened. Whereas he later sent an email 
acknowledging he was involved in the incident but alleging fraud on the part of the third-
party.      
Ive thought about whether esure has considered the third-partys claim fairly, based on the 
evidence available. I think it has. It did initially defend Mr Ds position but having seen the 
engineers report showing damage to the front of his car, and the images taken of damage 
the third-partys van, I think it reasonably concluded that it didnt have a strong case to 
defend. 
The claim has yet to be settled. As I understand it esure is disputing the repair costs with the 
third-party insurer. But its likely that it will settle the claim in favour of the third-party once 
this is resolved. Based on the evidence and testimony provided by the parties, I dont think 
esure has acted unreasonably here. As discussed esure has the discretion under Mr Ds 
policy terms to settle the claim as it sees fit. Based on the available evidence it doesnt think 
it would win if the claim was taken to court and doing so would result in further costs. I dont 
think its view is unreasonable.
esure also says Mr D was asked to co-operate with an investigator, in order to assist in the 
preparation of a defence should the case progress to court. It says he didnt agree to provide 
his co-operation. 
Ive read esures emails where it asked Mr D for his co-operation. He makes his position 
clear that esure shouldnt settle the claim in the third partys favour, but he doesnt agree to 
co-operate. I understand his views on the third-partys claim, but I think a reasonable person 
would co-operate with their insurers investigator in these circumstances, in order to defend 
the claim.        
I can understand that Mr D is upset that the claim is still showing as open. Also, that he has 
had to chase for updates on multiple occasions. I think its fair that esure paid Mr D £150 
compensation to acknowledge that its communication couldve been better. But delays have 
occurred when handling the claim as a result of the third-party insurer not responding in a 
timely manner to esures requests for information. This must be a frustration for Mr D, but I 
dont think esure is responsible for these delays. 
Mr D says esure increased his renewal premium even though the claim had yet to be settled. 
He says hes been with the insurer for three years without claiming. I can understand why Mr 
D was unhappy about the increase. But insurers will consider a customers claims history 
when assessing risk and calculating premiums. This will include any incidents that are 
reported, whether they result in a claim or not, and open claims that have yet to be 
concluded. 
I dont think Mr Ds shown that esure behaved unfairly here. I also note he didnt renew his 
policy with esure so he hasnt been disadvantaged by an increase in its premiums.
Mr D says that he hasnt seen the claim information or photos supplied by the third-party 
insurer. We asked esure if it was prepared to share this information with Mr D. It confirmed it 
wasnt. It says sharing the information provided by the third-party insurer would constitute a 
breach of the General Data Protection Rules (GDPR). Although I can understand why Mr D 
wants to see this information, I agree with esures view that its not correct for it, or for our 
service, to share this information with him. He can of course request this himself directly 
from the third-party, should he wish. However, I have carefully considered this evidence 
when making my decision.  In summary I dont think esure treated Mr D unfairly by relying on its policy terms and 
handling the claim in the way it has. I think its communication couldve been better but esure 
has apologised and paid Mr D £150 to acknowledge this, which I think is fair. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman