DRN-3988209
The complaint
Mr A complains that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt refunded him after he fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties and so Ill summarise the key 
details:
Mr As friend presented him with an opportunity to make some money. He was to 
download an app and, after paying to unlock the service, perform tasks across social 
media sites in return for payment. 
Mr As friend had told him hed already made some money through the opportunity. 
He didnt carry out any checks on the parties involved or what was being promised, 
instead trusting his friends judgement.
Mr A didnt know at the time, but the opportunity was in fact a scam. He downloaded 
the app and, on 9 February 2022, paid £2,100 to the account details hed been given, 
in order to unlock the service. 
He also accidentally sent a second payment of £2,100 on the same day, which he 
contacted RBS about. That payment didnt end up going through.
He was given access to a WhatsApp group. Within that group were many other 
people that were also signed up to the service.
By 14 February 2022, the app appeared to have stopped working and all those 
involved in on-boarding people like Mr A became uncontactable.
Mr A contacted RBS again to explain something was wrong with his payment and he 
waited for the bank to respond.
RBS took the case forward as one of a payment sent in error, rather than a payment 
made as part of a scam. It contacted the receiving bank and was told no money 
could be recovered.
Mr A continued to contact RBS and said it had gotten things wrong. It ultimately 
issued a final response on 4 October 2022 stating that Mr A still hadnt formally 
reported the successful payment of £2,100 as a scam, and so it hadnt investigated it 
as such. It said it was unable to consider a complaint about any scam investigation 
outcome for the same reason. That being said, it did include some commentary 
about how it might view Mr As scam case and said it was unlikely hed get his money 
back.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with RBS response. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
She thought about the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code, which is in place to protect victims of scams, but didnt think RBS had to 
reimburse Mr As loss. That was because:
oMr A hadnt carried out any checks on the company he was getting involved 
with or the legitimacy of the proposed opportunity. Hed only taken his friends 
advice.
oRBS neednt have provided a warning or intervened in the payment as it was 
unremarkable in value and appearance, giving no clear signs to the bank that 
it ought to be concerned with its legitimacy. 
oEven if RBS had treated the payment as a scam after the call on 
14 February 2022, Mr As money still wouldnt have been recovered as it had 
already been removed from the recipient account.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I wont be upholding his complaint, for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. 
RBS is a signatory to the Lending Standards Board CRM Code. Its in place to protect 
victims of fraud and, broadly speaking, states that a customer ought to be reimbursed if they 
are the victim of an APP scam, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Ive considered the evidence and Im persuaded that one of the exceptions to reimbursement 
applies in Mr As case, namely that he lacked a reasonable basis for believing he was 
engaging with a legitimate business for a legitimate purpose. 
Mr A appears to have put his faith in his friend telling him that the opportunity was all above 
board and legitimate. I dont doubt that Mr A had reason to trust his friend, especially as hed 
been told that his friend had received money, but that doesnt remove his responsibility to 
satisfy himself that all was as it seemed. Its also the case that Ive seen no evidence of what 
was specifically discussed with Mr As friend, or what he saw to persuade him that money 
had been received, so its difficult to place much weight on whats been said here.
From the evidence Ive seen, it doesnt appear Mr A questioned the returns he was told he 
would make or who the company behind the app and opportunity was. He didnt question 
why he was paying an account in the name of a different business to the one he was dealing 
with. And he didnt check to see if the business was legitimately registered anywhere, which 
it wasnt.
As Im persuaded Mr A lacked a reasonable basis of belief, it means an exception to 
reimbursement can be fairly applied and RBS isnt obliged to refund Mr A.
Ive also thought about whether RBS needed to do more to protect Mr A at the time he made 
the payment. Id expect, in some circumstances, RBS to provide whats described as an 
effective warning under the CRM Code. But such a warning only needs to be provided 
where the bank identifies a scam risk. 
Like our investigator, I dont find that the payment made by Mr A was so remarkable that 
RBS ought to have been concerned that he was at risk of financial harm through fraud. 
Whilst £2,100 is far from an insignificant sum to lose to a cruel scam like this, it isnt such a 
high value that it ought to have lead to concerns on the banks part. That remains true even 
though the value of the payment might have been higher than the typical activity on Mr As 
account. Ive considered whether RBS made a mistake in investigating the payment in the way it did, 
and in not treating it as a scam following the call on 14 February 2022. I dont believe an 
error was made.
It is true that Mr A does say the payment was made as part of a scam during that call. But 
then, when pressed for detail, his description very much leads RBS away from that 
definition. 
Mr A instead says that he sent the money to the wrong account. This doesnt seem to be a 
simple misunderstanding. I say that because as the discussion progresses Mr A is asked 
where the money was meant to go, and he goes on to provide account details of what was 
supposed to have been the beneficiary account. 
Mr A calls the bank again on 26 February 2022, and again his description of the payment 
centres around it being one made in error, rather than as a result of a scam. And so I can 
understand why the bank didnt investigate it as a scam from the outset.
I would like to have seen RBS being a bit more proactive when it became clear what Mr A 
was saying had happened. Instead of just telling Mr A it couldnt comment on what had 
happened, because the payment hadnt been reported as a scam, I dont see why RBS 
couldnt have taken forward the investigation with the information it had been provided. 
Whilst this has unnecessarily drawn out the resolution of Mr As complaint, Im not making 
any award as there hasnt been an impact on the eventual outcome. Thats in terms of RBS 
own obligations under the CRM Code, and because there was unfortunately no chance of 
Mr As money being recovered from the receiving bank.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman