DRN-3812984
The complaint
Mr H complains that Skrill Limited closed his account and hasnt released his funds. He 
would like his money returned and his account reinstated and an explanation.
What happened
Mr H opened an account with Skrill on 21 April 2021.
Skrill requested some identification documents from Mr H as part of their Know your 
customer procedures on 23 April 2021. He provided this, but Skrill wasnt satisfied with the 
documents provided. Mr H provided Skrill with more documents. But Skrill proceeded to 
close the account with immediate effect on 26 April 2021. They charged Mr H an 
administration fee of €111 which was the entirety of Mr Hs balance.
Mr H says a Skrill employee told him he would get his money back.
Mr H complained to Skrill. Skrill said Mr H had agreed to the terms and conditions of the 
account. Mr H had reached the number of transactions requiring him to be verified in order to 
use his account further. The account was restricted pending verification. Skrill said they were 
entitled to request this to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. They had closed 
the account following their terms and conditions. These allowed Skrill to charge an 
administrative fee. They said their staff hadnt said he would get a refund.
Mr H was unhappy with Skrills response, so he complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Skrill had acted unfairly when it 
closed Mr Hs account and charged him a fee of €111.
Mr H was unhappy with the view. He said the account was less than one month old, so they 
werent entitled to charge an admin fee. Our investigator said there was nothing in the terms 
to suggest Skrill could only charge an admin fee on accounts older than three months.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Financial businesses, like Skrill, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments.
This is reflected in Skrills terms and conditions. These say Skrill can block an account for 
security reasons. The terms and conditions of the account also allow Skrill to close and 
suspend accounts immediately in some circumstances.
In Mr Hs case, Im satisfied that Skrill was acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
requirements when it reviewed Mr Hs account. The account was newly opened and Skrill 
needed further proof of identification from Mr H in line with their existing processes, so Im 
satisfied they were entitled to ask for the information they requested.
As the investigator explained its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not 
they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. 
Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial 
institution must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their 
account closed.
Ive looked at the evidence and Im satisfied Skrill were entitled to close the account as they 
had legitimate concerns. Im satisfied that Skrill didnt act unfairly when it reviewed and 
closed Mr Hs account. So, I wont be asking it to reinstate it.
Fees
I know Mr Hs main concern is that Skrill have charged him €111 as an administrative fee to 
close his account. And that the amount was the total balance in his account. Mr H has 
requested his balance back.
Mr H has suggested Skrill staff told him he would get a refund, but Ive seen no evidence to 
support this.
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy with the situation. I have looked at the terms and conditions of 
the account which Mr H agreed to when he opened his account with Skrill. They are clear 
that Skrill can charge up to €150 if they close a customers account.  In this case they took 
the balance in the account to cover the fee for closing Mr Hs account. 
Mr H feels that charging him a fee is unfair especially because the fee represents the totality 
of his balance. But having looked at the terms and the circumstances of this case I dont 
agree. Skrill are entitled to charge the fees based on the terms of the account which Mr H 
agreed to. Further Ive already said I think Skrill acted fairly when they reviewed and later 
closed Mr Hs account, so I think based on the terms and the evidence Im satisfied Skrill 
havent treated Mr H unfairly in charging the fee and I wont be asking Skrill to waive the fee.
In summary Im satisfied Skrill were entitled to close Mr Hs account and apply the fee to 
close his account. I wont be asking Skrill to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman