DRN-3584776
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with BISL Limited for how theyve administered her motor insurance
policy.
Miss P took out a motor insurance policy with Company GI - BISL arranges and administers
policies for Company GI. As the matters in this complaint fall under the responsibility of
BISLs role as the insurance intermediary, I will refer only to BISL throughout this provisional
decision.
What happened
On 21 September 2020 Miss P called BISL Limited to enquire about changing the car she
was insuring under the policy and increasing the level of cover from Third Party, Fire and
Theft (TPFT) to comprehensive cover.
Miss P explained she was looking to purchase the car the following week, so she needed the
new level of cover to start from 28 September 2020.
On 10 March 2021 Miss P contacted her insurer about a crack in her new cars windscreen
and it was at this time she learned her motor insurance policy was still providing TPFT cover
only. Miss P discussed the problem with BISL and understood the matter was resolved as
the policy would be amended and she paid for the new level of cover - so all she needed to
do was pay the excess for the windscreen to be repaired. However, the windscreen repair
company later contacted Miss P for the balance of the repair costs.
Miss P raised a complaint and BISL agreed their staff member had failed to upgrade the
policy to comprehensive cover in September 2020. To put things right BISL agreed to pay for
the windscreen repair costs and awarded Miss P £50 for the trouble caused.
Miss P didnt think this was enough to recognise the worry of having driven around for
several months without the higher level of cover. And she was concerned that BISL had
continued to get things wrong. Miss P said the whole matter had caused her a lot of stress.
As Miss P couldnt resolve things with BISL she brought her complaint to our service. Our
investigator considered what had happened and felt that BISLs offer to put things right was
fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators findings. She still felt that BISL had got things
wrong and shed also been charged a fee when having to arrange the new policy in March
2021.
Our investigator confirmed with BISL that there was no fee charged for starting a new policy,
but explained that Miss P wouldve incurred an amendment fee as per the terms and
conditions of the insurance. Miss P didnt accept this as she felt shed still been charged
more due to BISLs error.
Because our investigator was unable to reach an agreement between BISL and Miss P, the
complaint came to me to decide. I issued my provisional findings to both parties which Ive 
summarised below.
Provisional findings 
I noted that BISL had accepted theyd done something wrong by not upgrading Miss Ps 
level of cover when she asked them to in September 2020, so it was left for me to decide 
whether BISL had acted fairly in trying to put things right. 
I considered whether Miss P was in a worse off financial position because of what had 
happened as well as the impact the matter had on Miss P in terms of stress and 
inconvenience. 
I said BISLs offer to pay the windscreen repair costs was fair in the circumstances as this 
recognised Miss P would have had this insured if she had been given the comprehensive 
cover when she asked. 
I noted Miss Ps concerns about paying additional fees for having to take out a new policy to 
amend her cover in March 2021. I agreed with the investigator there was no fee for starting a 
new policy, but the paperwork showed Miss P had been charged an amendment fee for £25 
for making changes to the existing policy. 
I also noted Miss Ps paperwork from September 2020 showed she was charged an 
amendment fee for £25 at that time as well. 
I explained the policy terms set out that all amendments were subject to a £25 amendment 
fee. I noted it was not in dispute that Miss P was making an amendment to her policy, so it 
was fair to say Miss P would have been required to pay an amendment fee in September 
2020. And I said it was therefore reasonable to say Miss P would only have paid for one 
amendment fee of £25 if all her changes had been carried out in September 2020 when she 
requested them. 
Based on what Id seen, I said it was therefore fair for BISL to pay back to Miss P the 
amendment fee of £25 shed been charged in March 2021. 
When reviewing Miss Ps case I also considered that while Miss Ps cover had not been 
changed to comprehensive cover in September 2020, she had also not been charged for the 
higher premiums either, so I didnt think Miss P had been made financially worse off here. 
And I noted Miss P seemed to accept that comprehensive cover would cost more, so I didnt 
think this was in dispute. 
I acknowledged it would have been distressing for Miss P to learn she had been driving for 
several months without the level of protection she thought she had, but I also noted Miss P 
was unaware of this until 10 March 2021. 
I didnt wish to take away from Miss Ps worry, but when considering the distress caused to 
Miss P, I was mindful that Miss P would have been unaware there was anything wrong 
between September 2020 and March 2021. I said this didnt excuse what had happened, but 
I thought it only fair for this to form part of my considerations that Miss P would not have 
been worrying about the error during this period of time. 
Miss P had expressed concern about not being covered if something had happened 
between September 2020 and March 2021. And I explained I couldnt know for certain what 
would have happened if there had been an incident during this time, but as nothing 
happened there wasnt anything for me to consider putting right. And BISL corrected the error straight away for Miss P  their letter dated 11 March 2021 (a day after Miss P learned 
of the problem) included sending Miss P new documentation confirming the cover had been 
amended to comprehensive cover. 
I also noted that policy documentation sent to Miss P in September 2020 had confirmed the 
level of cover as TPFT, and it was reasonable to say  given there appeared to be no further 
changes until March 2021  that the renewal documents in January 2021 confirmed the 
same. So, while I thought it was fair for BISL to put things right in this particular case, and Id 
noted Miss Ps comments about being made to feel it was her error not to have checked the 
documents, that it was only fair to also acknowledge there is some responsibility on 
consumers to check their policy documentation. 
Lastly, I didnt think Miss Ps submissions that BISL should have known shed want to 
increase her cover because of the type of car she had was fair, as I said it would be 
unreasonable for BISL to make such an assumption given other policyholders may have 
made different choices in similar circumstances. And in this case, BISL had accepted their 
error. 
Taking everything into account I said the £50 offered to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss P was fair in the circumstances. 
To put things right I noted BISL had already paid for Miss Ps windscreen repair costs and 
paid her the £50. So I explained I was minded to say BISL should now also pay Miss P the 
£25 for the reasons above. 
Responses to my provisional decision
BISL responded to my provisional findings to say they didnt think a further £25 should be 
paid as only one amendment fee was paid in March 2021. It was clarified to BISL that Miss P 
should only be charged one amendment fee, as this is all she would have paid if the 
amendments had been made when she requested the changes in September 2022, and it 
seemed she had been charged for two amendment fees. BISL reviewed this again, and then 
agreed with my provisional decision. They have said theyve already taken steps to arrange 
the payment of £25 to go to Miss P. 
Miss P didnt reply to my provisional decision by the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In view of the above, as there are no further submissions for me to consider, I see no reason 
to alter my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision. 
Having taken everything into account, its accepted BISL did something wrong and I think for 
the reasons given above, covering the windscreen costs and returning the amendment fee of 
£25 is fair in the circumstances. And for the reasons above, I think the £50 paid to Miss P to 
recognise the stress and inconvenience caused to her is also fair in the circumstances of this 
case. 
Putting things right
BISL Limited have already paid for Miss Ps windscreen repair costs and paid her £50 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to her. BISL Limited should now also pay Miss P £25 for the additional amendment fee she paid in March 2021, if this has not already 
been done. 
My final decision
I realise Miss P may not feel this decision goes far enough in compensating her for whats 
happened. However, for the reasons above, my final decision is that Miss Ps complaint is 
upheld and BISL Limited should put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman