DRN-4098650
The complaint
Mr W and Miss R complain that esure Insurance Limited caused damage to their car 
following a claim made on the key cover component of their motor insurance policy. Miss R 
is a named driver on Mr Ws policy. They want their car repaired. 
What happened
The key for Mr Ws car was faulty, but working, and so Miss R made a claim on their policy. 
esures agent attended and Miss R said he used a jump pack to try and reprogramme the 
key. But Miss R said this affected the cars computers and the key and the car were no 
longer working. 
esure said the fault was unrelated to the actions of the technician. But, as it hadnt 
responded to Miss Rs requests for help with its agent, it refunded £300 for the costs of a 
dealers diagnostic and Miss Ws £378 storage charges, and it paid £150 towards her 
additional travel costs. But Miss R remained unhappy that her car wasnt repaired. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure, as 
the policys underwriter, was responsible for its agents actions. In the absence of sufficient 
evidence from esure, she thought it was more likely than not that the technicians actions 
had caused damage and made the car unusable. So she thought esure should pay to have 
the car repaired and also pay Mr W £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
esure replied that there was no evidence that the technicians actions had damaged the car. 
It thought this may be coincidental. esure asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that esure accepts responsibility for the complaint as the agents were acting on its 
delegated authority, and the key cover was purchased through its motor insurance policy. I 
can see that Miss R was caused considerable frustration when esure directed her to its 
agents when she tried to make her complaint. 
Miss R said the car and the only key were working fine before the claim, except that the 
keys battery needed to be replaced often after it had become damaged. And now, over 
seven months later, they are without a usable car. I can understand that this must be 
frustrating for them. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
So Ive looked to see how esure has justified its decision that its not responsible for the 
damage to Mr Ws car. Our Investigator asked esure for copies of its complaint notes so we 
could see how the complaint had been assessed. She also asked for a report from the 
technician to explain what actions he took when attending Mr Ws car, as well as any notes 
recorded about the job and subsequent problem. But these werent provided.
So the available evidence is that provided by Mr W and Miss R. This consists of their 
testimonies of what happened, the opinion of a dealers garage, and a response from the 
agent locksmith. 
Miss R said the car and key worked before the technician started his work. She said she had 
taken her children to school that morning and then used the key to unlock the car for the 
technician. She said the technician worked on the car for three hours but then he said the 
key no longer worked. 
After Miss R complained, the locksmith agent paid the cost of a new key replacement. But it 
said the agent couldnt have caused the further damage as the pin code provided wasnt 
correct and didnt allow him access to the cars computer. 
Miss R arranged for the car to be taken to a main dealers garage for a diagnostic and she 
provided us with its report. This said, in part, that the key wasnt communicating with the 
cars computers:
We have tested the original key and there is no signal to the vehicle, we have changed the 
battery in the key and still no signal to the vehicle.
When the vehicle was possibly jump started (prior to the vehicle being recovered into us) it 
may well have put a power surge through the vehicle that would have knocked these 
controls out. We would not know until we know exactly what the recovery team plugged onto 
your vehicle. You mentioned a large orange box with wires coming out of it.. could this have 
been a heavy duty jump pack?
Was the vehicle running and the key working prior to the breakdown company attending the 
vehicle is the question that needs to be asked.
If the vehicle had come in running and simply needed another key to be programmed and 
was running at the time, we would have been able to simply programme the key to the 
vehicle.
The dealers estimate for repairs was £2,697.57, plus a call-out charge.  
esure said there isnt expert evidence to back up that the technician definitely caused the 
problem and that this could simply have been a coincidence, It said it would consider further 
evidence that showed that the technician caused the problem by using the jump pack.   
But Im satisfied that the locksmith agents explanation that the pin code was incorrect wasnt 
supported by the dealers garage. And Mr W maintained that the technician used a jump 
pack on the car and esure has accepted this. I accept that the garages report states the 
likely scenario. But this cant be confirmed as esure hasnt provided evidence of what the 
technician did.  
Where there is an absence of evidence or where the evidence we do have is incomplete or 
contradictory, we look at what we believe is most likely to have happened on the balance of 
probability. 
The garage has provided a likely explanation for the damage that accords with Mr Ws 
testimony. So Im not satisfied that esure has justified its decision that the technician couldnt 
have caused the damage. And I think it has unfairly declined to accept responsibility for the 
cars repair. 
The locksmith has already paid for the cost of a replacement key. I assume that this was 
done under the policys terms and conditions. And esure has paid for the cost of the 
diagnostic, the storage and some of Miss Rs out of pocket expenses as an 
acknowledgement of its poor customer service. And so I think esure should now liaise with Mr W and Miss R to have their car repaired as 
soon as possible. Miss R said they hadnt had the car repaired themselves as they were 
waiting for the outcome of their complaint. I can understand their decision as the cost of the 
repairs is considerable. But we expect a consumer to take reasonable steps to mitigate their 
losses. And so I cant hold esure fully responsible for their further out of pocket expenses.
But I do think that they have been caused considerable trouble and upset for a long period. 
Ive seen that they have had to push esure to take responsibility for their complaint. And then 
they have had the stress and trouble of having to press esure for a reasonable outcome. In 
keeping with our published guidance, I think esure should pay Mr W £500 compensation for 
this level of impact. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to liaise with Mr W and Miss R to have their car repaired as 
soon as possible and to pay Mr W £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service in handling their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman