DRN-3008310
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down 
a claim on its business interruption insurance policy after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr B, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. It claimed on its policy in March 
2020 after it was forced to close by the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
AXA initially appointed a loss adjuster but a couple of weeks after G had reported its claim, 
AXA said they were unable to confirm or deny whether there was cover. In May 2020, AXA 
turned down Gs claim. They said they had considered the claim under the core business 
interruption section and the endorsement for denial of access but both of these required 
Covid-19 to have caused physical damage to property. They said they had also considered 
the claim under the endorsement for infectious diseases but that would only provide cover if 
there was a notifiable disease suffered by a visitor or employee at Gs premises. As G hadnt 
indicated that anyone at its premises had Covid-19, AXA said this endorsement didnt 
provide cover either. 
G was unhappy with AXAs response and complained. It said the following endorsement for 
infectious diseases meant that the business interruption section of the policy didnt just 
provide cover in the event of damage to property. 
CPM10 - Murder, suicide and infectious diseases extension 2006
Section B (Loss of Profits) is extended to include losses arising from the closure 
of the Premises by a competent authority due to an human notifiable infectious 
disease or food poisoning suffered by any visitor or employee or by defective 
sanitation vermin or pests at the Premises as specified in the schedule or by 
murder or suicide occurring at the Premises.
G thought the use of the word or in the endorsement indicated that the disease didnt need 
to occur at Gs premises. G said that the word or couldnt be ignored as otherwise it would 
suggest cover is only provided were someone to contract a notifiable disease, get food 
poisoning, have vermin and pests and have a murder or suicide occurring all at the same 
time. G therefore said that the policy provided cover because its closure had been as a 
as a result of the closure of the Premises by a competent authority due to a human notifiable 
infectious disease.  
G was also unhappy that AXA had initially confirmed there would be cover, and with the 
length of time they had taken to respond to the claim. G said it had made a number of calls 
to AXA to try to get a response, at a time when its businesses was fighting for survival. 
AXA said the endorsement for infectious diseases needed to be read in its entirety and in 
this case would only provide cover if G had closed due to a notifiable disease at the 
premises. AXA said they had taken longer than G would have liked to confirm whether they 
policy provided cover because they wanted to ensure they were giving the correct answer. 
They accepted they had initially incorrectly provided the wrong information in saying that the 
policy would provide cover. AXA apologised for this and offered G £250 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.  
G remained unhappy and so brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the wording of the 
endorsement for infectious diseases meant that cover would only be triggered where the 
infectious disease was suffered by a visitor or an employee at its premises. As he didnt think 
G had shown that anyone at its premises had Covid-19, he didnt think the policy provided 
cover for Gs claim. Our investigator recognised that AXA had provided incorrect information 
about the claim but thought £250 was a fair and reasonable amount for them to pay G to 
compensate for this. 
G disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
thought the investigator had incorrectly interpreted the policy based on what he expected to 
be written rather than what was actually written, as there were multiple different ways the 
endorsement could be interpreted. It said there were four perils listed but only three 
occurrences of the phrase at the premises. 
With regard to showing whether there was a case of Covid-19 at its premises, G referred to 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on proving the presence of Covid-19. It 
said there were a number of cases within the local area and it cant be known whether 
someone with Covid-19 visited Gs premises. G thought the high prevalence of Covid-19 at 
the time should be enough to demonstrate the likely presence of Covid-19 at its premises. 
G said, due to AXA incorrectly saying the claim was covered it had continued to trade 
normally as it thought it would be able to rely on the claim payment for any losses. G added, 
that it hadnt accepted the £250 offered as compensation by AXA and hadnt been asked for 
the details of its losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G has made a number of detailed points. Id like to reassure G that, while Ive considered 
everything, Im not going to respond to every point but will instead address what I consider to 
be the central issues of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Gs business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
The claim 
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from some risks which might occur, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Gs claim. The business interruption section of Gs policy provides cover in the event that Gs business 
is interrupted due to damage to property. This cover is then extended by various 
endorsements added to the policy. I have considered the policy in its entirety but Im going to 
focus my decision on the endorsement for infectious diseases as that is the area in dispute.  
Although the endorsement could be read in different ways and by adding punctuation the 
meaning can be changed, a contract must be interpreted by asking what a reasonable 
person, in possession of all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to the parties at the time they entered into the contract, would have understood the 
language of the contract to mean. Having considered the endorsement as a whole, I think its 
likely a court would decide that Covid-19 needed to be at the premises. Ill explain why.
The other events are grouped by type  defective sanitation, vermin and pests; and murder 
and suicide. So treating disease and food poisoning as a pair is consistent with this. 
Moreover, the other two insured perils  by defective sanitation vermin or pests at the 
Premises and by murder or suicide occurring at the Premises are separated by the word 
by. If disease is treated as standalone, the endorsement would be missing the word by 
before food poisoning. 
In addition to this, the need for the disease to have been suffered by a visitor or employee is 
also consistent with the rest of the endorsement, where each event has to occur at the 
premises. I understand G thinks that by this logic the phrase is missing an at the premises 
after visitor or employee but I think visitor or employee is in place of at the premises. 
For these reasons I dont think the endorsement would be considered ambiguous and I think 
Covid-19 would need to have been suffered by a visitor or employee in order for cover to be 
triggered. 
Therefore, Ive considered whether G has shown its most likely a visitor or employee at its 
premises had Covid-19.   
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 was 
present at Gs premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof 
initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.
G hasnt provided a specific example of a visitor or employee that it thinks had Covid-19. 
Rather, its provided a detailed breakdown of the local population and cases of Covid-19 
within the local area. G said this should be enough to discharge the burden of proof on to 
AXA. However, while there were clearly cases of Covid-19 within Gs local area, I have to 
bear in mind that most people didnt have Covid-19 at that time and Im not persuaded that 
Covid-19 being in Gs local area is enough to demonstrate that its most likely Gs employees 
or visitors had Covid-19. It follows that I dont think AXA need to show a visitor or employee 
at Gs premises didnt have Covid-19. 
Incorrect information from AXA
AXA have accepted that on 18 March 2020 their agent incorrectly told G that they were 
covered under their policy. I understand G made a number of calls to AXA and the loss adjuster to get more information before being told on 2 April 2020 that AXA could neither 
confirm nor deny liability. AXA formally told G that its claim wouldnt be covered in May 2020. 
I recognise how frustrating and disappointing it would have been for Mr B, as Gs director to 
have been told that the claim would be paid, only to find that wasnt the case. However, as G 
is the complainant, I can only consider the impact of the incorrect information on G, as a 
limited company, and not Mr B. 
I understand G has experienced significant losses, but from the information Ive been 
provided with I think these are as a result of the pandemic and the Governments response 
to the national pandemic, rather than because of AXAs error. Therefore, I think AXAs offer 
of £250 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate G for the inconvenience they 
caused.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome G was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Gs claim. 
My final decision
Im satisfied AXA Insurance UK Plcs offer of £250 for the inconvenience they caused G is 
fair and reasonable in the all the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is that AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should pay G £250 if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman