DRN-3550941
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Nationwides process for payments being received from overseas.
What happened
Mr B transferred a large sum of money from an overseas into his Nationwide account. But 
when the money was received, Mr B wasnt happy with the exchange rate that had been 
applied which he noted was considerably less favourable than exchange rates published by 
the Bank of England. Mr B also wasnt happy with several aspects of the service hed 
received from Nationwide surrounding the transfer. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Bs complaint. They explained that they have an arrangement with 
third-party bank who act as an intermediary to facilitate international payments and that 
theyre dependent on that bank for the exchange rate used, which is applied by the bank 
when the overseas funds are received and converted from their original currency into 
Sterling. Nationwide also explained that the nature of overseas payments means that the 
exact time that money will be received is unknown, and that therefore the exact exchange 
rate that will be applied to the payment cant be guaranteed in advance.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide 
had acted unfairly towards Mr B in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has expressed his concern with the exchange rate used by the intermediary bank upon 
receiving his money from overseas, and notes that its less favourable than exchange rates 
published by the Bank of England. I can appreciate Mr Bs position here. But upon 
consideration, I dont feel that the exchange rate applied to his transfer was unfair. 
One reason for this is that the Bank of England confirm on their website that their listed 
exchange rates are not official rates and are no more authoritative than that of any 
commercial bank. Ive also checked the historical exchange rate for the day in question on 
several currency exchange platforms, and having done so I dont find the rate applied to    
Mr Bs transfer to be notably out of line with rates he might have achieved elsewhere. 
And while I do note that the rate applied to Mr Bs exchange was generally less favourable 
than the mid-price for that day, I also note that it was better than the least favourable rate 
that could have been applied to the exchange on that day. This leads me to feel that the rate 
that Mr B received was the result of unfortunate timing in regard to when the currency 
exchange was processed, but I dont feel that it was unfair. 
Im aware that Mr B feels that Nationwide had an obligation to ensure that the intermediary 
bank processed the exchange of his money fairly. But I dont feel that Nationwide have such 
an obligation  which expanded outward I feel would effectively entail Nationwide auditing 
every currency exchange that took place. Instead, I feel its reasonable that Nationwide 
would allow the intermediary bank to undertake actions stipulated by the agreement held 
between them, as negotiated by Nationwide for the benefit of its members, and without the 
intermediary bank having to provide justification for every action undertaken.
Mr B has also complained that incorrect codes provided to him by Nationwide delayed the 
transfer by one day. I can appreciate how this might have been frustrating for Mr B, but Ive 
also checked the historical exchange rates for the day before the currency exchange took 
place, and I note that rates appear to have moved slightly in Mr Bs favour. As such, it seems 
more probable that Mr B benefited from any delay that occurred, rather than vice versa.
Accordingly, while I appreciate that Mr B would like to have received as favourable a 
currency exchange rate as possible, I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unfairly to him in 
how they processed the transfer. And its unfortunately the nature of transfers received from 
overseas sources that the exact time that the money will be received cant be predicted, and 
neither can the exchange rate that will be applied at that time.
Finally, Mr B feels that Nationwide led him to believe that it would be another bank that 
would act as the intermediary, rather than the bank that did. However, the bank that Mr B 
believed would operate as intermediary hasnt operated under that name for a large number 
of years, having first been acquired by, and then adopting the name of, the intermediary 
bank that Nationwide have an arrangement with  although many internal codes used by the 
bank within banking systems remained linked to the older name.
It appears that it was in reference to one of these codes that Mr B came to believe that the 
older bank would be the intermediary. But I dont feel that Nationwide should be fairly asked 
to compensate Mr B for a misunderstanding of a code that refers to a trading name that 
hasnt been used for many years. And given that I dont feel the exchange rate used by the 
intermediary bank was unfair, I also dont feel that it can be said with any certainty that Mr B 
would have benefitted financially if a correct understanding of which bank would act as 
intermediary would have caused him to seek alternative methods of conducting the transfer. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but it follows from all the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I 
hop that Mr B will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman