DRN-3460010
The complaint
Mr L complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
MoneyBoat provided six loans to Mr L as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
109/08/2019 28/01/2020 6 £500.00 £145.02
205/05/2020 28/07/2020 3 £200.00 £92.50
331/07/2020 28/10/2020 3 £200.00 £95.65
412/11/2020 26/02/2021 4 £300.00 £107.70
515/03/2021 22/06/2021 6 £300.00 £83.53
607/07/2021 closed 6 £500.00 £146.62
Mr L mainly said that the loans led to a spiral of debt and repeat borrowing and worsened his 
already poor financial situation. 
When Mr L complained to MoneyBoat it didnt uphold his complaint. But, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it said it would refund the interest paid on loan 5 and write off the balance 
outstanding at the time on loan 6.
Mr L didnt feel this was enough to put things right, so he brought his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt think he had seen enough to say that MoneyBoat shouldnt have 
provided loans 1,2,3 and 4. And our adjudicator said he wouldnt have asked MoneyBoat to 
do any more than it had already offered to do in respect of loan 5. So our adjudicator 
concentrated on looking at loan 6. He thought that proportionate checks for this final loan 
wouldve likely shown MoneyBoat that Mr L was already having problems managing his 
money as he had at least four other outstanding short term loans when he took it out. Our 
adjudicator said MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr L would be able to 
sustainably repay this loan and so not have provided it. He set out the steps he said 
MoneyBoat needed to take to put things right for Mr L.  
MoneyBoat hasnt responded to our adjudicators view and the deadline for responses has 
now passed. So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive followed 
this approach when Ive considered this complaint. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the borrower. These factors include, amongst other things:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans - not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Whilst loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties. And 
in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully thought about what this all means for Mr Ls 
complaint.
Mr L has said hes happy to accept what our adjudicator said in his view. So I dont think 
I need to say more about loans 1,2,3,4 and 5. And like our adjudicator, I dont think 
MoneyBoat shouldve provided loan 6. Looking at loan 6, whilst MoneyBoats affordability checks suggested that Mr L shouldve 
had enough disposable income to afford the loan, I think MoneyBoat shouldve realised that 
it seemed unlikely this was the case in reality. I say this because, by the time he asked for 
loan 6, Mr L already had at least four other outstanding short-term loans which suggests to 
me that he was most likely borrowing from one lender to pay others. 
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable on a simple pounds and pence 
calculation, I think MoneyBoat shouldve realised that Mr Ls borrowing record painted a 
picture of a person struggling with debt. And despite what hed told MoneyBoat about his 
finances, it showed that Mr L was having serious problems managing his money. 
So I think MoneyBoat shouldve realised when Mr L asked for loan 6 that it wasnt likely to be 
sustainable and it shouldnt have provided loan 6 to Mr L.
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 6.
MoneyBoat has confirmed its offer in respect of loan 5 is open to Mr L to accept. Mr L should 
contact MoneyBoat direct if he wishes to take advantage of this offer and he hasnt already 
done so.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan 6 to Mr L, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Mr L and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to accurately reconstruct now. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay extra for a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. MoneyBoat should take the following steps: 
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 6, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr L the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse entries MoneyBoat has recorded on Mr Ls credit file for 
loan 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 6 and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman