DRN-3104744
The complaint
Mrs C complains that J D Williams & Company Limited sold debts she owed to a third party, 
even though she had agreed repayment plans. 
What happened
Mrs C had several accounts with J D Williams, linked to different retailers. She has explained 
that she lost her job in 2019, lost a family member, and had to take time off due to Covid-19. 
She suffered an injury in April 2020. As a result of these matters, she was having difficulty 
making payments. 
Mrs C told J D Williams what had happened, and in or about December 2020 it agreed 
repayment plans in respect of two of the accounts. She was to pay £30 a month on one 
account and £10 on the other. She was able to afford those payments. 
A few months later, however, Mrs C found that she was unable to access her accounts. She 
contacted J D Williams, which told her in April 2021 that it had sold them to a third party. Mrs 
C did not think that was fair and complained to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not think that J D Williams 
had acted unfairly. He noted that the account terms allowed J D Williams to sell the debt if, 
for example, Mrs C was not making the contractual payment due each month. The debt 
collection agency was better placed to negotiate a long-term solution to Mrs Cs problems. 
Mrs C did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. She said that, in allowing her to open multiple accounts, J D Williams had not 
properly considered her credit score.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first with Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of her debts to a third party. As the 
investigator noted, however, the account terms allowed J D Williams to transfer its rights and 
obligations to a third party. In fact, it could do that, whether or not Mrs C was making the 
contractual payments due. It could transfer the account to any person with the necessary 
authorisation. In the circumstances, I dont believe that J D Williams acted unfairly in doing 
so. 
In response to the investigators assessment, Mrs C suggested that J D Williams had not 
properly assessed her ability to pay. That was not, however, part of her original complaint  
which concerned only the transfer of the accounts to a third party. J D Williams has not 
therefore had an opportunity to comment on that issue and the investigator did not express a 
view on it. Be that as it may, this seems to me to be inconsistent with Mrs Cs explanation for 
her difficulties in making payments when she first referred her complaint to us  that she had 
lost her job and had to deal with a number of family and personal issues. In my view, J D 
Williams addressed those issues in a fair and reasonable manner.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require J D Williams to do anything more 
to resolve Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman