DRN-1779029
The complaint
Mr B and Mr P are unhappy that Santander UK Plc turned down their request to borrow extra 
funds whilst adding Mr P to Mr Bs existing Santander mortgage.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator in her email of 
17 August 2020 for the following reasons.
Santander doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Santanders not accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act 
or omission by the surveyor or the firm they work for. 
Santander is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Santander is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and 
having considered everything Im satisfied it did. This means we cant consider the valuation 
figures given by the surveyors in 2017 and 2019, nor the comments made by the surveyor 
about whether or not the property was suitable security for the mortgage.
Mr B says My complaint is simply that Santander were very happy to lend me the money for 
the initial mortgage based on the valuation of £80,000 and it was on this basis that I 
accepted the mortgage Offer. I acknowledge that the Offer does state that no additional 
lending will be considered until a management company was in place, but I would also argue 
that, that is a redundant clause as there cannot be any guarantee that a management 
company will ever be in place - so why lend in the first place. Surely if the lack of 
management company was not a concern for the original loan, why has it had such a 
dramatic affect now?
When Mr B took the mortgage out in 2017 the surveyor noted:
The lease has not been inspected and it is assumed it contains no onerous 
conditions. The lenders legal adviser should make enquiries as to any proposed 
expenditure planned for the block as a whole which could affect the level of service 
charge.
The conveyancer should be asked to confirm that the managers of the building have 
complied with statutory regulations regarding the risk of asbestos within the common 
parts.
Mr Bs solicitor was appointed to act for both him and Santander in the purchase. By 
completing and sending the certificate of title to Santander Mr Bs solicitor was confirming all 
the conditions of the mortgage (including the one that the valuation report should be referred 
to) had been satisfied and the property was suitable security for the mortgage. Mr B has told 
us that the management company was already absent by then so its unclear how the 
solicitor was able to say the conditions had been satisfied. But I cant deal with that here as 
this is a complaint about Santander, not Mr Bs solicitor. If Mr B feels his solicitor didnt carry 
out their duties satisfactorily in 2017 then thats something he would need to raise with his 
solicitor directly. Santander was entitled to rely upon the information provided by the solicitor 
and its not responsible for any act or omission on their part.
Unfortunately since Mr B bought the property the condition of the development has 
deteriorated. In 2019 the surveyor noted Management of the development of which the 
subject forms part is considered inadequate and the property is considered to no longer 
meet lender requirements for mortgage purposes.
The surveyor provided further comments to Santander in which they confirmed the 
development has been getting worse over the years with;
a lack of maintenance evident with timber decay and missing sections of external 
joinery,
vegetation growing on flat roofs,
fly tipping and general waste in the car parks,
overgrown landscaping and overgrown car parking, and
unsecure door to the communal areas.
Based on this Santander said it was unable to lend any further money to Mr B and Im 
satisfied that wasnt an unreasonable decision for it to make.
Mr B has said If I'd been advised that this would have such a damaging affect on my future 
options I would not have purchased this property. Mr B had already decided he wanted to 
buy the property and all he was asking Santander to do was decide if it was willing to lend 
him the money to do so, which it was. Santander had no responsibility to give Mr B advice 
about whether he should buy the property. It also wasnt Santanders role to explain to him 
the potential legal issues he may have in the future; that was his solicitors job.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Santander did nothing wrong when making its 
decisions to grant Mr B a mortgage in 2017 and to not lend him further money in 2019.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman