DRN-2679760
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that the amount Aviva Insurance Limited has offered to settle their 
motor insurance claim is too low.
References to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr and Mrs Cs car was damaged in an accident caused by another driver. Mr 
and Mrs C made a claim under their motor insurance policy with Aviva.
Aviva deemed the vehicle a total loss. It initially determined the vehicles market value was 
£1,430 and based its offer to settle the claim on this amount. Mr and Mrs C were 
disappointed with Avivas valuation. They didnt think it took the vehicles condition or 
additional extras into account. 
Aviva increased the valuation of the vehicle to £1,860. But Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy, 
so they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Cs concerns but didnt think their complaint should 
be upheld. He thought Avivas valuation of their car was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view. They didnt feel the industry trade guide 
valuations were appropriate, given their vehicle was in such pristine condition, with no 
expense spared on it. They thought we should have consulted classic car valuation guides 
because the model of vehicle (from 2002) was starting to enter this marketplace where car 
values are increasing. 
So, Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say that in the event of an insured vehicle being damaged 
Aviva will pay (the policyholder) a cash amount equal to the loss or damage and the most 
(Aviva) will pay is the market value of (the policyholders) vehicle.
Market value is defined as the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make, 
model, specification and condition.
Aviva says it used three industry trade guides to assess the pre-accident market value of Mr 
and Mrs Cs vehicle. They also researched the market place looking for similar vehicles to 
confirm the guide figures were a realistic representation of the market. 
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr and Mrs C 
would have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing 
this is by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national 
research of likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, 
age, condition and specification of a car. 
Mr and Mrs C say their type of vehicle is starting to become a classic car and values have 
been rising over the past few years. They say they would place their car value towards the 
show car values and way above average, in view of its condition.
Ive reviewed the evidence Aviva has provided as well as information available to us using 
three industry trade guides. This takes into account the condition of Mr and Mrs Cs vehicle 
and optional extras. I know Mr and Mrs C strongly believe their car was worth more than 
Aviva says it was. But having reviewed the information available to me, Im satisfied Avivas 
assessment of the market value was fair and reasonable.
 
Mr and Mrs C have provided an advert for a car for a considerably higher price which they 
say has a lower specification but similar condition and mileage to theirs. But the advertised 
price of a car is often higher than the market value because a dealer will build in a margin for 
negotiation.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C. But having considered everything, 
I think Aviva has acted fairly in determining the pre accident value of the car and has offered 
to settle the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman