DRN-2734911
The complaint
Ms P has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave her 
unaffordable loans.
 
What happened
Ms P took six instalment loans from Lending Stream between August 2011 and December 
2017. A summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us by Lending 
Stream can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Contractual 
Repayment
1 26/08/2011 24/03/2012 6 £495.00 £163.09
2 25/07/2013 16/01/2014 6 £300.00 £140.00
3 12/04/2017 27/09/2017 6 £1,340.00 £578.88
4 06/11/2017 14/11/2017 6 £1,290.00 £567.60
5 29/11/2017 07/12/2017 6 £950.00 £410.40
6 28/12/2017 outstanding 6 £850.00 £380.80
The most recent correspondence from Lending Stream shows there is an outstanding 
balance due for loan 6. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ps complaint. He didnt think Lending Stream were 
wrong to provide loans 1 and 2 based on the information it gathered about Ms Ps 
circumstances. 
But the adjudicator thought that further checks were warranted for loans 3-6 due to the 
information Lending Stream gathered as a result of its credit checks. But as Ms P had not 
provided information showing what her circumstances were likely to be at the time of the 
loans, the adjudicator was unable to conclude that Lending Stream had done something 
wrong when it provided these loans. 
It appears that Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Ms P disagreed. In response she said if Lending Stream had undertaken sufficient credit 
checks, it wouldve noticed she was struggling and using lots of payday loans to juggle her 
payments.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms P could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Ms P. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was provided.
Firstly, I would like to start by saying Im satisfied there are three lending chains  loan 1, 
loan 2 and then loans 3-6. I say this because Ms P took out loan 2 around 16 months after 
she repaid her first loan. And loan 3 was taken out more than three years after she repaid 
loan 2. And, I think this amount of time was sufficient enough for Lending Stream to have 
reasonably assumed that Ms P had overcome whatever financial motive she had for taking 
out her earlier loans.
Loan 1
When Ms P applied for her first loan, Lending Stream asked her to declare her monthly 
income and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Ms P declared that she had a 
monthly income of £1,600 and her monthly expenditure amounted to £1,000. This left Ms P 
with a disposable income of around £600 of which to meet the monthly repayments of no 
more than £163.09.
Lending Stream also completed a credit check. The results of the credit checks show Ms P 
had nine active accounts of which one was a mortgage. Other than her mortgage, Lending 
Stream was not privy to which other types of accounts Ms P held i.e. short-term loans, credit 
cards etc. I can also see that Lending Stream were aware that Ms P had two defaults. But 
based on all the information Lending Stream gathered, I dont think this was likely to have 
concerned it.  
I acknowledge that Ms P believes Lending Stream should have seen she was borrowing 
from other lenders, but Lending Streams credit checks didnt show this information, so I 
cant conclude it would have known about her borrowing with other lenders based on its 
credit checks alone.
It is also important to note, that when a lender carries out the credit check there is no 
regulations to say a lender must to a credit search before a loan is granted let alone one to a 
required standard. So, the fact Lending Stream didnt know exactly what sort of credit 
accounts Ms P had, isnt something I can say is an error. 
But what Lending Stream cant do, is ignore the information it received. But I dont think this 
is the case here. This was Ms Ps first loan with Lending Stream, so it had no borrowing 
history to go by. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that it approved Ms Ps first loan.
Loan 2
As I have explained, Ms P applied for this loan 16 months after she repaid loan 1. Lending 
Stream completed the same level of checks as before. Ms P declared her monthly income 
was £1,600 and her expenditure totalled £750. So, I think the loan repayments of no more 
than £140 a month, appeared affordable based on what Ms P declared. 
Lending Stream knew Ms P now had defaulted on a further three accounts. But I cant ignore 
that the time that had passed since her previous credit check which was 23 months prior. 
With this in mind, I think it was just about reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on 
the information it was presented with. I think the loan appeared affordable based on the 
information Ms P told Lending Stream about her circumstances. So, I cant conclude that 
Lending Stream were wrong to approve this loan.
Loans 3-6
Ms P applied for her third loan 39 months after she repaid loan 2. Lending Stream completed 
the same level of checks as it had for her previous two loans. But I think the information that 
Lending Stream gathered about Ms Ps circumstances ought to have prompted it to have 
completed more comprehensive checks. Whilst the information Ms P provided about her 
income and expenditure suggested she had enough disposable income to meet the 
repayments, the results of the credit checks suggested some potential problems. 
The credit check results showed Ms P now had nine defaulted accounts in total - another 
four defaults since her last credit check. So, I think Lending Stream had information showing 
her circumstances has deteriorated further since her last loan. Furthermore, Ms P was now 
applying for a loan of £1,340 resulting in a monthly repayment of no more than £578.88 
which was her largest loan and largest loan repayments to date. 
I think Lending Stream should have done more to understand more about Ms Ps 
circumstances, and if she could afford as well as sustain these loans. One way it couldve 
done this, was by verifying Ms Ps circumstances by requesting copies of her bank 
statements. Or it couldve asked to see a copy of payslip and or copies of bills. 
Ms P went on to request an additional three loans without any significant breaks between 
them. So, I also think Lending Stream should have continued to verify Ms Ps circumstances 
for her subsequent loans to ensure she could afford as well as sustain the repayments. 
But, Ms P hasnt provided us with a copy of her credit file or bank statements showing what
her circumstances were likely to have been at the time she took loans 3-6. So, I cant sayfurther checks wouldve made a difference to Lending Streams decision to lend.
Based on the information we have received from both parties, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Lending Stream made the decision to approve these loans. I understand 
that my findings are likely to disappoint Ms P, but I hope my explanation will help her 
understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman