DRN-1834883
 
The complaint
Miss A complains that Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid Market) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss A took out three instalment loans with Quid Market. Details of these loans are given 
below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Highest 
repayment
1 26/05/2015 28/10/2015 £508 £214.00
2 30/05/2017 11/07/2017 £400 £165.89
3 30/08/2017 12/02/2018 £400 £164.34
All three loans were to be repaid over four monthly instalments. The loans have been repaid.
Miss As complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter to both 
parties where he didnt uphold Miss As complaint. He concluded that Quid Market didnt 
need to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loans to Miss A and didnt do 
anything wrong. Miss A didnt agree with our adjudicator. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss A could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss As income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quid Market did a number of checks before it lent to Miss A. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Miss A had left over each month. Quid Market also used a credit 
reference agency to gather some more information about Miss As financial situation at that 
time.
Miss A took out loan 1 in May 2015. This was the first time she had approached Quid Market 
for a loan and based on what she told it, the loan would have appeared affordable for her. 
So for these reasons, I dont think at this stage Quid Market needed to do anymore in the 
checks it carried out. 
It was then over 18 months later that Miss A asked for another loan from Quid Market. 
Because of the significant period of time between loan 1 being requested and 2, I think it is 
reasonable to treat loan 2 and 3 as the start of a new lending relationship between the 
parties. Based on what Miss A told Quid Market about loan 2 and 3, I think both would have 
appeared affordable for her. 
I have also seen results from the credit check that Quid Market used at the time it granted 
the two loans. I dont think the credit search results or the other checks it carried out showed 
enough that I would have expected it to look into things further. The checks didnt show any 
other concerning information such as a reliance on other short term loans, bankruptcy or any 
court orders.
I acknowledge Miss As comments about her finances and health at the time the loans were 
granted. But with what I have in front of me, I cant see that this was something she told Quid 
Market when she asked for the loans, nor do I think it is something Quid Market should have 
discovered from proportionate checks. I think it was reasonable here for Quid Market to rely 
on the information that Miss A provided about her finances when assessing the affordability 
of the loans. I dont think it would be proportionate to expect Quid Market to have gone 
further and sought to independently verify what Miss A had said for these 3 loans. And as 
the information Miss A provided suggested that the loans were affordable for her I dont think 
that Quid Market did anything wrong when it agreed to lend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman