DRN-1494823
The complaint
Miss L, who is represented by Mr L, complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In January 2019 Miss L acquired a second hand car costing £34,990 funded by deposit of 
£1,000 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. It was some four years old and had 
done around 23,500 miles.
It was driven by Mr L and he encountered a number of faults soon after acquisition. The first 
of these occurred within 30 days of collection and the car was repaired by the dealer. A few 
days later the car was taken back to deal with vibration and the front brake discs and pads 
were replaced.
In late May the car was repaired again, this time the driver's seat was sagging and side 
airbag fault was found. A screeching noise was also investigated and the signs of rubbing on 
heat shield were found. The dealer attempted to repair the reported issues. The car was 
back in the garage again in July, but I dont have details of what work was carried out. In 
August there was a fault with the drivers headrest and in September the car was returned 
due to it stalling. 
Mr L left the car with the dealer and he also has told this service there were issues with the 
catalytic converter, but no evidence of this has been supplied. Miss L complained to BMWFS 
in September, but this was rejected. It said that she had accepted the repairs for the fault 
which had occurred within 30 days and had lost the right to reject. It added that the dealer 
had said the latest fault was due to the car being driven with too little fuel.
Miss L brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She said that it wasnt reasonable to expect 
multiple issues to occur with the first few months. She thought a key element of a car being 
satisfactory was durability. She didnt think it had been durable.
 
BMWFS didnt agree and said Miss L had accepted repairs and had given up the opportunity 
for rejection. It also said that the dealer had confirmed the later problems were down to it 
being driven with low levels of fuel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was only four years old and had a relatively low mileage. It was also a fairly 
expensive model and so one would expect it to be fault free or close to that. However, it has 
had a succession of issues which have had to be addressed. This service regards a car a 
single entity which allows the supplier to make one repair as set out in consumer law. 
However, I note the car was taken back to the dealer four times in the first six months and a 
couple of times after that. 
I have seen that BMWFS has suggested it was open to rejection, but felt that the latest fault 
had been caused by Mr L not filling the car with sufficient fuel. I have seen no evidence to 
support this claim. Taking into account the multiple failings and the age mileage and price of 
the car I consider it not to have been satisfactory at the point of sale. I agree with our 
investigator that durability is a key element of the car being fit for purpose. 
 Putting things right
I consider that as the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale Miss L should be allowed 
to reject it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the vehicle at no further cost to the consumer (I believe the vehicle has been 
left with the dealer since September 2019)
Refund the deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Refund the monthly payments for the time when the consumer couldn't use the 
vehicle due to repair issues.
Pay £150 for the trouble and upset the consumer went through while trying to deal 
with numerous issues caused due to the faulty vehicle.
Remove any adverse information from the consumer's credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman