DRN-4516319
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a credit card and subsequent credit limit increases NewDay Ltd 
(trading as Aqua) provided to him. 
He says the limit on his credit card was automatically raised multiple times without request at 
times when his life was difficult.
Background
Mr Cs credit card
Aqua provided Mr C with a credit card with an initial limit of £900 in April 2015. 
Mr Cs credit limit was increased to £1,500.00 in August 2015; £2,100.00 in January 2016; 
£3,550.00 in May 2016; and finally £4,650.00 in February 2017.  
Aquas response to the complaint
Upon learning that Mr Cs complaint had been referred to our service, Aqua accepted it 
shouldnt have offered the fourth credit limit increase to Mr C. And it agreed to refund all 
interest, fees and charges Mr C paid on balances above £3,550.00 as a result. As this is in 
line with what wed tell a lender to do in the event we were to uphold a complaint, weve not 
looked into the February 2017 increase. 
Our investigators investigation and assessment
One of our investigators then reviewed what Mr C and Aqua had told us. And she thought 
Aqua hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly in relation to providing the credit 
card or increasing the credit limit in August 2015 and January 2016. 
Unfortunately, the investigator did not at the time realise that Aqua agreeing to refund all 
interest on balances over £3,550.00, meant that its position was that it had only agreed that 
it had done something wrong in February 2017 and had only made an offer in relation this 
limit increase. 
Aqua did not consider that it had done anything wrong in May 2016 and as a result did not 
offer any sort of refund in relation to the limit increase which took place at this point. 
Nonetheless as our investigator considered that Aqua had offered on the May 2016 limit 
increase, she did not look into whether or not Aqua acted fairly and reasonably at this point 
and instead told Mr C that what Aqua had already agreed to do to put things right for him 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
Mr Cs response to our investigator
Mr C specifically disagreed in relation to the investigators findings on Aquas lending 
decisions prior to May 2016. He was happy in relation to accept the offer in relation to the 
lending decisions that had been communicated to him  included the erroneously 
communicated offer in relation to the May 2016 increase. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint and in particular he believed that his 
complaint about the earlier lending decisions  - i.e. what happened prior to May 2016 - 
should also be upheld.
My provisional decision of 20 November 2023
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2023. 
In my provisional decision, I clarified that Aqua had only ever offered to uphold the complaint 
about the credit limit increase to £4,650.00 in February 2017. Ill go into details behind the 
reasons for my clarification in the May 2016 section of this final decision. 
I also set out why I thought that Aqua had not acted unfairly when offering Mr C a credit limit 
increase to £3,550.00 in May 2016. Having also considered the circumstances at the time of 
the earlier increases, I explained why this left me intending to conclude that what Aqua had 
actually already agreed to do to put things right for Mr C was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of his complaint. 
In summary, I thought that Aquas offer was fair and reasonable because I wasnt persuaded 
that that the decisions to initially provide Mr C with his credit card in April 2015; or increase 
the limit on the account in August 2015, January 2016 and May 2016 were unfair or 
unreasonable. 
It was therefore my intention not to require Aqua to pay Mr C any further compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Aqua did not respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further to me to 
consider.
Mr C disagreed with my provisional decision stating:
He had a binding offer from Aqua in relation to the third and fourth limit increases. 
Aqua should have attempted to correct the offer if it didnt agree with how the 
investigator communicated it when she issued her assessment.
I had created a situation where I was asking him to forget that a written agreement 
had been mediated and I should have contacted him before issuing a provisional 
decision which was affected by any misunderstanding of Aquas offer.
Aqua upheld the fourth increase on the basis on a change in employment. He left his 
previous employment in January 2016. So if Aqua had checked his employment it 
would have found this out prior to the third limit increase in May 2016.
I accepted that Aqua no longer had records of the credit checks that it carried out in 
April 2015. But given the account was still unpaid the records should have been 
retained notwithstanding the fact that only eight years had passed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying that in my provisional decision I used an incorrect initial on a couple 
of occasions when referring to Mr C. I wish to confirm that these are typing errors. Nonetheless, Mr C is absolutely correct in saying that is not the level of service that he 
should be receiving from our service. I agree that this is the case, I apologise for the typing 
errors in my provisional decision and I think that it is important for me to acknowledge this 
right at the start of this final decision. 
 
I now turn to the substance of Mr Cs complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I remained satisfied that what Aqua has offered to 
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. Ill 
explain why I think that is the case.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Aqua needed to make sure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is Aqua needed to carry out proportionate checks 
to be able to understand whether Mr C could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I explained, in my provisional decision, that there had been some suggestion that Mr C might 
not have been complaining about the decision to provide him with the credit card in the first 
place. Mr C has since made some further points in relation to this mater. 
So for the sake of clarity, completeness, and the avoidance of doubt Ive looked at the 
decision to provide Mr C with his credit card in August 2015 as well as the decision to 
increase his credit limit to £1,500.00 in August 2015; and then £2,100.00 in January 2016 
(and for reasons Ill go on to explain in that section of this decision, the decision to provide 
Mr C with an increased credit limit of £3,550.00 in May 2016). 
Aquas checks
Aqua says it initially agreed to Mr Cs application after it obtained information on his income 
and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr C would be 
able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. Due to Mr Cs account 
being relatively well managed he was then offered credit limit increases to £1,500.00 and 
then £2,100.00. 
On the other hand Mr C says that he shouldnt have been lent to and the credit was provided 
at a time when his life was difficult.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Aquas decision to provide Mr C with a credit card with a limit of £900
Whats important to note is that Mr C was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that to start with Aqua was required to understand whether a credit limit of £900 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one go. A 
credit limit of £900 required relatively small monthly payments in order to clear the full 
amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Aqua hasnt been able to provide the results of any credit checks that it carried out when it 
agreed to provide Mr C with his credit card in April 2015. But given just how long ago this 
application was, I dont think that is too surprising. Mr C considers this to be suspicious given 
the account has not been fully repaid and he suggests that this may not suit the narrative it 
has put forward. 
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. I accept that Mr Cs account hasnt been settled. But 
Mr Cs account is a revolving credit facility and it isnt unusual for credit facilities to run for a 
number of years with balances on them. And there isnt anything in the regulations that 
states a respondent firm needs to hold credit check information indefinitely. I say this while 
particularly mindful that Aqua wont have known whether Mr C would make a complaint in 
the future at the time it was requested from its credit reference partner.
Typically most data is held for around six years. Indeed, I think Mr C would likely be told a 
credit reference agency no longer held this information if he were to have requested it 
himself. Given the information is from more than eight years ago, I dont think that it 
unreasonable for Aqua to no longer hold it. And I do not consider it reasonable to draw 
adverse inferences against this information not being held in this circumstance. I say this 
particularly as I havent been provided with any other clear documentary evidence to show 
what a credit check is likely to have looked like either. 
In any event, as I explained in my provisional decision, having been given and considered 
some information on Mr Cs income at the time, Im satisfied that a declaration of income is 
likely to have been sufficient for Aqua to have determine that a credit of £900 was affordable 
for Mr C. The information provided suggests that Mr C was in work at the time and that he 
received sufficient funds to be able to repay £900 within a reasonable period of time.
As this is the case, Im currently satisfied that the checks carried out before Mr C was initially 
provided with his credit card were reasonable and proportionate.
The first and second credit limits
For the first credit limit increase, it appears as though Aqua mainly relied on Mr Cs account 
having been managed well in the four months or so since it had been opened. Im not 
necessarily persuaded that Mr Cs account had been managed particularly well or that this in 
itself was an indication that Mr C should be lent up to a further £600. 
This is especially as it appears as though Mr C made £640 of cash withdrawals in May 2015 
and June 2015. However, I can also see that Mr C made a large repayment in May 2015. 
Aqua has also been able to provide credit search data which shows that Mr C had 11 active 
credit accounts and outstanding balances of around £8,000.00 at the time he was offered 
the credit limit increase to £1,500.00.
Between the first and second limit increases, Mr C appears to have made only a single cash 
withdrawal for £100. And he made a payment of around two thirds of the increased credit 
limit in October 2015. So I can see why Aqua might have thought that an extra £600 on a 
revolving credit basis might have been affordable given Mr C had made a lump sum 
payment significantly in excess of this.  Im also mindful that although there wasnt anything in the way of any additional significant 
adverse information on the credit search Aqua carried out. Indeed, at this stage while Mr C 
did have more active accounts his balances had reduced to around £2,500.00. 
While I accept that there were some indications that Mr Cs account management might 
have suggested the credit limits were affordable, given the amount of the likely increased 
monthly payments, I do think that there is a reasonable argument for saying that it would 
have been proportionate for Aqua to find out a bit more about Mr Cs regular living costs 
before offering the credit limit increases. 
As Aqua didnt obtain this information, Ive considered the information Mr C has provided 
with a view to deciding what it might have found out about Mr Cs regular living costs  had it 
asked him about this. To be clear this isnt the same as asking Mr C for his bank statements, 
as given the amounts involved here I dont think that asking for this information would have 
been proportionate in the circumstances.
Having carefully thought about matters, I dont think that Aqua would have made different 
decisions, when offering the first and second limit increases, even if it had asked Mr C for 
more information. I say this because the information Mr C has provided about his finances at 
the time appears to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing 
credit commitments were deducted from the funds going into his account, he did have the 
funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about what Mr C has said about having received 
bonuses. But as these were funds he received I think that these would have been taken into 
account. I also think that it is reasonable to take these funds into account too. Furthermore, 
while Mr C has said that he was receiving credits for a friend to help him get back on his 
feet, I cant see how Aqua would have found out about this.
Mr C has also said that a look at his bank statements show that he didnt have much in the 
way of funds left in his account at the end of the month. And hes also referred to the cash 
withdrawals and late payments as evidence of him not having the funds to repay any 
additional credit. 
However, Mr C is including all of his spending in his analysis of what was left in his account 
at the end of the month. And Aqua only needed to find out about his main regular living 
expenses, given the credit searches would have shown Mr Cs credit commitments. I 
wouldnt have expected Aqua to have conducted the forensic line by line analysis of Mr Cs 
bank statements that Mr C has carried out.
Furthermore, while I do acknowledge that the cash withdrawals that Mr C has referred to, as 
Ive explained earlier on in this decision, its also fair to say that this was balanced out by the 
relatively large payments Mr C made on more than one occasion. And bearing all of this in 
mind, I dont think that the late payments or cash withdrawals in themselves meant that Aqua 
shouldnt have lent to Mr C.
And, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to conclude that Aqua would have found out 
that Mr C didnt have insufficient funds to make the repayments for the increased credit limits 
of £1,500.00 and £2,100.00. This is even if it had tried to find out more about his 
circumstances at this time. 
Its possible that Mr Cs position might have been worse than what it looks like, or that it 
worsened after the credit limit increases took place. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to use hindsight here, or say that Aqua should have known this was the case. This is 
especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks (rather than a forensic analysis of Mr Cs bank statements) would more likely than not have shown that Mr C could 
repay what he could owe at the time the lending decision was made. I also say this in the full 
knowledge that he cleared his balance in full in April 2016.
So overall while I can understand Mr Cs sentiments, I remain satisfied that Aqua didnt treat 
Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his credit card or subsequently 
increasing his credit limit to £1,500.00 in August 2015 and £2,100.00 in January 2016. 
The position in relation to the third (May 2016) limit increase
I explained in my provisional decision that it appeared as though the investigator had omitted  
the credit limit increase to £3,550.00 in May 2016, in her assessment. I explained that the 
investigator considered that the complaint about the credit limit increase was being upheld 
by Aqua as it was agreeing to refund all interest from £3,550.00 onwards. However, Aqua 
confirmed that it had not and had never agreed that the complaint about the third limit 
increase should be upheld.
To be clear, this miscommunication was noted after the case had been passed to me for a 
final decision. I accept that the language Aqua used could have been better and that it could 
have referred to the limit increases by number  for example the first limit increase, the 
second limit increase etc. But nonetheless Aqua always stated that it would refund any 
interest from £3,550.00 onwards. This means that it wasnt accepting having done anything 
wrong up to the point it increased Mr Cs limit over £3,550.00  i.e. the fourth limit increase 
to £4,650.00 in February 2017.
Mr C says that my provisional decision overlooked the fact that he accepted a binding offer 
in relation to the limit increase to £3,550.00 in May 2016. I accept and appreciate that Mr C 
is disappointed at the news he has received. But I am afraid that I do not agree with him on 
this matter. Ill explain why I think that this is the case.
Aqua never offered to uphold the complaint about the May 2016 limit increase. It accepted 
that we could consider a complaint about this  in the same way it accepted that we could 
consider a complaint about its initial decision to provide Mr C with a credit card and the limit 
increases in August 2015 and January 2015  but it never accepted that it did anything 
wrong in relation to this limit increase or agreed to make an offer. 
So Aqua did not make an offer in relation to the May 2016 increase. Our investigators 
misunderstanding of Aquas position (and that is what happened rather than Aqua making 
and then retracting an offer here) and incorrect suggestion that it had made an offer did not 
create a binding offer in circumstances where one had never existed in the first place. Given 
Aqua had not indicated it was prepared to make an offer in relation to the May 2016 
increase, our investigator was never authorised or entitled to communicate such an offer on 
Aquas behalf. 
Once the jurisdiction position had been determined, our investigator was merely entitled to 
investigate and give her thoughts on whether Aqua acted fairly and reasonably when offering 
Mr C a limit increase in May 2016. She did not do that in this instance as she incorrectly 
interpreted Aquas position.   
Mr C says that Aqua should have objected about the proposed settlement before the case 
reached decision. I agree that Aqua pointing out the investigators error might have resulted 
in the matter being noticed sooner. But that doesnt change the position in relation to the 
investigators scope and authority or mean that her assessment created a binding offer, 
where one never existed, in the way that Mr C suggests. Indeed Aqua didnt confirm its agreement to the adjudicators assessment on the merits of 
Mr Cs dispute. In any event, Im afraid that Mr Cs interpretation of having accepted a 
binding offer isnt how the law of contract - and in particular offer and acceptance - operates. 
Amongst other things, at the very least, it is clear that there is no meeting of the minds 
between the parties to this dispute and its clear that any communication of an offer was 
made by a third-party not authorised to make such an offer on the basis of a mistake. 
Having reviewed the file, I could see that there was a clear question in relation to whether 
Aqua was accepting that it shouldnt have increased Mr Cs credit limit in May 2016 and 
making an offer an offer to settle the complaint in relation to this limit increase. And because 
this may well have affected the enforceability of any direction that I would have made in my 
final decision, at my instigation, the investigator asked Aqua to confirm that it was in fact 
making an offer in relation to the May 2016 limit increase. 
As Ive explained, Aqua confirmed that it had not made an offer to refund any interest added 
to Mr Cs account as a result of the May 2016 limit increase. The investigator subsequently 
asked Aqua whether it wished to make such an offer in light of what shed communicated to 
Mr C  in other words whether it wished to accept the position in relation to her merits 
assessment. Aqua confirmed that it did not as it did not consider that it did anything wrong in 
May 2016 and wanted the complaint about this limit increase considered. That is why I 
looked at this limit increase in my provisional decision.
Mr C says this matter should have been resolved prior to my provisional decision and that he 
should have notified that there were some alleged errors which were going to affect matters. 
Once again while I appreciate why Mr C is disappointed at how events have turned out, the 
whole point of me issuing a provisional decision on his case, rather than proceeding directly 
to a final decision, was precisely because what I had discovered had the potential to change 
matters. Issuing a provisional decision gave both parties the opportunity to comment on all 
matters including my thoughts on whether Aqua acted fairly and reasonably in May 2016  
not just the position in relation to the offer - ahead of a final decision. Issuing a provisional 
decision in these circumstances is entirely in line with our process for resolving disputes.
Ive explained that it is regrettable that it took until the case had reached an ombudsman for 
the errors to have been noticed. Nonetheless as they were identified at that stage and most 
crucially as I had the information required to assess the matter, that is why I issued a 
provisional decision to allow both parties the chance to formally comment ahead of a 
provisional decision. Furthermore, Mr C has been able to make submissions as to why he 
disagrees with the position on the May 2016 increase prior to my final decision. 
So, while I appreciate Mr Cs sentiments, Im satisfied that he has not lost out as a result of 
my decision to consider whether Aqua acted fairly and reasonably towards him in May 2016, 
rather than attempt to ratify an offer that Aqua is adamant (and the available evidence 
appears to support) it never made and will therefore not have been binding. As this is the 
case and while I accept that Mr C is disappointed because he believes hes lost out on an 
offer  even though Aqua never actually made that offer  Im satisfied that what remains to 
be considered is Mr Cs further points in relation to the May 2016 limit increase. I now turn to 
that matter.  
Was the third limit increase in May 2016 provided unfairly?
Ive reconsidered whether it is fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint that the May 
2016 limit increase was provided unfairly as Aqua ought to have realised it was unaffordable 
for Mr C.Having carefully considered all of the information provided, Im satisfied that Mr C only owed 
some £330 at the end of the month the limit increase was offered. And at the end of the 
previous month Mr C owed £20 which was in effect the interest remaining from purchases 
which Mr Cs previous payments had cleared the balance on. 
Furthermore, Mr Cs non-mortgage balances with one of the credit reference providers 
decreased to just under £115,000.00. And with another credit reference agency, although 
the lines of credit it was saying were available to Mr C, in any event, remained the same, the 
amount that Mr C owed had reduced. 
As this is the case, its very difficult for me to reach the conclusion that Aqua acted 
irresponsibly in deciding to increase the amount of credit available to Mr C. Mr Cs finances 
seemed to be getting better and hed cleared the amount he owed. 
Mr C says that things are not always as they seem. Mr C had been made redundant from his 
job a few months earlier and was going through a difficult time. In Mr Cs view, if it had done 
the correct checks it would have seen that he wasnt in employment and hes provided the 
evidence to support that he wasnt working at the time.
Ive considered what Mr C has said and Im sorry that hes gone through a difficult time. 
Before I get on to what Aqua did or did not do in May 2016, as Mr C has referred to what our 
investigator said about its offer in relation to the February 2017 limit increase, I think its 
worth me confirming why it agreed that it shouldnt have offered this increase. 
Aqua agrees that it shouldnt have offered this increase because (for the sake of clarity I will 
quote Aquas words exactly) the extended credit was utilised quickly and the customer 
became delinquent immediately after. The notes on the account from this time show that we 
were advised that the change in circumstances was unemployment. I realise that Mr C may 
(as a result of our investigators communications) be under the impression that Aqua was 
aware of Mr Cs change in employment circumstances at the time of the February 2017 limit 
increase  although this is not clear. 
Having said this the information makes it clear that Aqua upheld the complaint about the last 
increase because the additional funds provided as a result of the limit increase were quickly 
used. And Aqua subsequently became aware of the change in Mr Cs employment 
circumstances when it received an income and expenditure assessment from a debt 
management company, which Mr C authorised in May 2017. So I dont think that Aqua 
necessarily accepts that it ought to have been aware that Mr C was not in employment when 
it increased his credit limit in February 2017. It merely accepts that it was told about this 
fairly soon afterwards.
In any event, the question for me to consider here, is whether Aqua ought to have been 
aware that Mr C wasnt in employment at the time it offered him the credit limit increase in 
May 2016. From what Ive seen it appears as though Aqua proceeded on the basis that Mr C 
was employed with the same employer (that he was when he made his initial credit card 
application) when it increased his credit limit in May 2016. This in itself, is not a wholly 
unreasonable starting point. And whether it is reasonable for Aqua to have proceeded with 
the limit increase offer on this basis is determined by a number of different factors. 
I accept and the evidence provided does show that Mr C was no longer employed at this 
time. And it is possible that if Aqua had asked Mr C whether his circumstances had changed 
Mr C might have told Aqua that he was no longer employed. Although I have to weigh this 
against the fact that Mr C has described the limit increases as being perfectly timed, yet still 
unwarranted and he did use the funds. So I have to accept that there is also a possibility     Mr C might not have said that his circumstances had changed, if Aqua had asked him 
whether his circumstances had changed and he considered the extra credit affordable.
In any event, I have to consider whether Aqua even needed to have asked Mr C this. Aqua 
only needed to do this if it was proportionate in the circumstances. And I need to consider 
this matter in the context of the May 2016 increase having been provided when it appeared 
Mr Cs finances seemed to be getting better and hed cleared the amount he owed on this 
credit card, rather than it being the case that his finances were worsening in the way that the 
credit check information gathered in February 2017 suggested that they were at that time. 
Furthermore, a customers previous repayment history is one of the factors that a lender is 
permitted to take into account when deciding whether to provide credit. In this case, Mr C 
was not proving himself to be a minimum payer in the lead up to May 2016, he had actually 
pretty much cleared his balance. In these circumstances, while I accept Mr Cs argument 
that things might not always be as they seem, in this instance Aqua didnt have reason to 
question Mr Cs employment at this stage. Therefore, I think that further extensive checks 
into Mr Cs employment at this time would not have been proportionate in the circumstances. 
Mr Cs repayment record on his Aqua account leading up to the increase together with the 
reduction in his indebtedness elsewhere, did not indicate that his employment status had 
changed. And given the level of improvement in Mr Cs finances indicated in the credit 
reference agency checks, I dont think that Aquas failure to carry out further checks into        
Mr Cs employment at this stage meant that its checks werent reasonable and 
proportionate. In my view, Mr Cs repayment record and the other checks carried out with 
credit reference agencies did not indicate that he might be unemployed or that he might not 
be able to afford the extra credit that was going to be offered.    
So, in these circumstances, while I am very much sympathetic to what Mr C has told us and 
I am very sorry to hear that he has gone through a difficult time, Im satisfied that bearing in 
mind the particular circumstances here Aquas decision not to carry out checks into Mr Cs 
employment wasnt unreasonable. And given what the rest of the information gathered 
showed, I remain satisfied that Aqua was entitled to offer Mr C the credit limit increase to 
£3,550.00 in May 2016.   
As this is the case, I also remain satisfied that what Aqua has already offered to do to put 
things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and Im not requiring it 
to do anything further. I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr C  
particularly in light of what has gone on through the course of the investigation. But I hope 
hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have 
been listened to.
Fair compensation  what Aqua needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable, in 
all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, for Aqua to put things right in the following way 
(which it has already agreed to do):
rework Mr Cs account to ensure that from May 2016 interest is only charged on the 
first £3,550.00 outstanding - to reflect the fact that the fourth credit limit increase 
should not have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; 
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Cs account once all adjustments have been 
made Aqua should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Cs credit file, it should backdate this to when it shouldnt have provided the additional credit in question in 
the first place; 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr C 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains on Mr C account after 
all adjustments have been made, then Aqua should remove any adverse information 
it (not any third party) has recorded from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to take off tax from this interest. Aqua must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
I understand that Aqua sold an outstanding balance on Mr Cs account to a third-party debt 
purchaser. So it will need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make the 
necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party (equivalent to that needs to be 
made on Mr Cs account) in order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr C an 
amount (equivalent to the interest, fees and charges which need to be refunded) to ensure 
that it fully complies with this direction.
To be clear I cannot make a direction against a third-party in any final decision I am likely to 
reach. Therefore, I am not requiring the County Court Judgment be removed as it a third-
party that obtained this. If Mr C wants that removed, he has to contact the court or the third 
party in relation to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 20 November 2023, 
Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman