DRN-2692812
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE decided to exclude cover for claims relating 
to Covid-19 around the time her policy was due to renew.
 
What happened
Mrs R took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker in 2018. The policy 
renewed in 2019 and was due to renew again on 14 June 2020. However, prior to the date 
of renewal, Great Lakes decided to exclude all claims relating to Covid-19 for new travel 
insurance policies. Mrs R was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and she didnt go ahead 
with renewal. Shed booked a trip abroad in February 2020 and she was due to travel in 
November 2020. As she was concerned that shed be left without any insurance cover for 
that trip, she felt she was likely going to be left with no option but to cancel the trip. She 
considered that there was an imbalance between the contractual rights of policyholders and 
Great Lakes. And she thought it would be fair for Great Lakes to cover the costs of her 
cancelled trip.
Great Lakes maintained its stance, so Mrs R asked us to look into her complaint. She 
referred specifically to a previous publication by this service. This considered whether it was 
fair for insurers to exclude cover at annual renewal for claims arising from a change in a 
policyholders health during the previous policy year.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mrs R unfairly. He felt that Great Lakes 
had been entitled to decide the terms on which it was prepared to offer Mrs R a new policy. 
He noted that the Covid-19 exclusion had applied to all new Great Lakes policies. While he 
accepted Mrs R wouldve liked Great Lakes to pay her cancellation costs, he explained that 
as Mrs Rs policy had lapsed on 14 June 2020, she no longer had any cancellation cover in 
place. He acknowledged that there could be an overlap between Mrs Rs situation and the 
circumstances set out in our publication. But he felt they could be distinguished on the 
grounds that in the article, the issue focused on an individuals health. In this case, the key 
reason for the change in cover was the global pandemic. So he didnt think the same 
considerations would apply. 
Mrs R disagreed. Ive summarised her detailed response to our investigator. She felt that an 
inequity arises between annual and single trip cover. Thats because if a trip is booked 
during one annual policy year which is due to take place in the next and an unforeseeable 
event happens which means the insurer excludes cover for that event at renewal, a 
policyholder is left without any cover for their pre-booked trip. She said that if a policyholder 
realised this was the case, then they could buy a single trip policy which would provide 
insurance throughout. She didnt think Great Lakes had highlighted that this could happen if 
a policyholder held annually renewable policies. She maintained that the situation set out in 
our publication could be applied to her own circumstances. She felt that as she was left in a 
position where she had no choice but to cancel her trip, Great Lakes ought to pay her 
cancellation costs under her 2019 policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that this decision 
will only consider whether it was reasonable for Great Lakes to exclude cover for Covid-19 
claims at renewal and whether it ought to pay Mrs Rs cancellation costs. Mrs R has also 
complained about the actions of her broker, which Ive considered in a separate decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, I dont think Great Lakes has done 
anything wrong that it needs to put right. Ill explain why.
First, its important that I explain that at each annual renewal, a new 12-month contract is 
formed. The contract is a new contract and isnt a continuation of the old policy cover. At 
each renewal, an insurer is entitled to decide whether it wants to continue to insure a 
policyholder and if so, on what terms. It may change the cover it provided under previous 
policies and it may decide to exclude cover for certain events. Its open to a policyholder to 
decide whether theyre happy to proceed with the contract based on the new policy terms 
and to lapse the policy if its no longer right for them.
In this case, at Mrs Rs policy renewal, Great Lakes decided to exclude insurance cover for 
any claims relating to Covid-19 with effect from the new policy start date. This was a 
commercial decision made by Great Lakes, which applied to all new policies. We wont 
generally interfere with a financial business exercise of its commercial judgement. We can 
look at whether a policyholder was singled out in any way though. However, as Great Lakes 
applied to the same exclusion to all new policies and renewals, I think it treated Mrs R in the 
same way as all of its other policyholders in similar circumstances.
The renewal paperwork the broker sent Mrs R, dated 9 May 2020, on Great Lakes behalf 
included an Insurance Product Information Document. This set out the Covid-19 exclusion 
clause (although I appreciate Mrs R was already aware of the exclusion and had discussed 
this with the broker).  Mrs R wasnt bound to accept Great Lakes renewal offer and indeed, 
she chose not to go ahead with renewing the policy, meaning it lapsed on 14 June 2020.
I know Mrs R feels strongly that her situation is directly comparable to our publication from 
2005, which discussed how insurers should respond to changes in a policyholders health at 
annual renewal. Id like to reassure her that Ive considered this very carefully. But I dont 
think these are parallel situations. As our investigator explained, the publication concerned a 
change in an individual policyholders personal circumstances. In this case, the change 
which led to Great Lakes excluding Covid-19 related claims was the pandemic itself. This 
was a far wider issue, which affected policyholders and insurers alike and which affected the 
travel industry in an unprecedented way, rather than a change specific to Mrs Rs situation. I 
dont think the publication, which was written 15 years before the pandemic, wouldve been 
intended to apply to the unique challenges posed by Covid-19. So I dont think it would be 
fair to direct Great Lakes to pay any cancellation claim on this basis.
And Ive borne in mind that Mrs R was on notice for a few weeks that if she took up the new 
policy at renewal, any claims caused by Covid-19 wouldnt be covered. At this point, she was 
still covered by her old policy, which may well have paid out a Covid-19-related cancellation 
claim. She remained covered by the 2019 policy up until 13 June 2020. So it was open to 
her to cancel her holiday before this date and make a cancellation claim. However, theres 
no indication that Mrs R did cancel her holiday while she was still covered by the 2019 
policy, or that she submitted a claim while Great Lakes still insured her. So I dont think it 
would be fair for me to find, in these circumstances, that Great Lakes should settle Mrs Rs 
cancellation claim.We consider each case on its own individual facts and merits. In this case, while I 
sympathise with Mrs Rs position, because I appreciate she felt shed been left with no 
choice but to cancel her holiday, I dont think Great Lakes treated her unfairly. So Im not 
telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman