DRN-3245790
The complaint
Miss B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt carry out appropriate checks 
or give her enough information about what it accepts as a deposit during her mortgage 
application. She says if it had done so, she wouldnt have continued with the application. 
Shes also unhappy with information she was given after she raised her complaint.  
What happened
In January 2020, Miss B applied to Halifax for a repayment mortgage of £185,000. In the 
application meeting with the adviser, she said she had savings of £50,000 for her deposit. 
Halifax accepted Miss Bs application and a mortgage offer was issued to her on 
31 January 2020. Around 10 March 2020, Miss Bs solicitors wrote to Halifax explaining part 
of the deposit came from a student loan. And a week later, Halifax said its lending criteria 
didnt allow the use of borrowed funds as a deposit. So it couldnt lend to Miss B.
The application shows Miss B was studying between September 2015 and November 2019 
at which point she became employed. Shes explained, while she was studying, she 
received a student loan which she didnt use  so it went towards her savings  and she 
worked to meet her living expenses. She also received bursaries and had a help to buy ISA 
which went towards her deposit. Her student loan made up around £30,000 of her deposit.
Once Miss B was told her application had been declined, she provided copies of her 
statements and payslips to show the deposit could be made up by her wages. Halifax didnt 
accept this as it says her wages didnt equal the amount she planned to use as a deposit.
Miss B complained to Halifax. She said it shouldve made its criteria around deposits clearer 
 or asked her more questions. As it didnt, she proceeded with the process and paid £560 in 
search fees and the valuation fee. She also says her credit file was negatively impacted.
Halifax didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint but it offered to refund the valuation fee as a 
goodwill gesture. It said the mortgage adviser didnt ask more questions as the system didnt 
prompt him to do so  and he was satisfied with Miss Bs answer that her deposit was from 
savings. It highlighted she didnt make it clear her deposit was from a student loan.
 As things werent resolved at that stage, Miss B asked our service to look into her 
complaint. She gave us copies of the proof of her deposit and Halifax gave us its internal 
guidance on verifying deposits, copies of its notes and the mortgage application summary. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Miss B didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. Ive copied what I said in 
my provisional decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. At the moment, Im planning to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax says during the application, the advisor should establish where the deposit is coming 
from to make sure it meets its lending criteria. Its given us its internal guidance to show how 
advisors are expected to do this. This says in some cases the system will prompt them to get 
evidence from the customer about the source of their deposit. But in others, even if theyre 
not prompted, the advisor should carry out further verification checks anyway if the 
information provided by the customer appears to be inconsistent or unusual.
In this case, Miss B was 28 years old and held a deposit of £50,000. From Halifaxs records, 
shed only been employed for around two months at the time of the application  and before 
that, shed been a student for around four years, working part-time. I know she told the 
advisor shed saved up the funds for the deposit  and repeated that when asked. But 
considering her circumstances at the time, I currently dont think its reasonable, or in line 
with its own guidance, that the advisor didnt ask any further questions or ask for evidence of 
where these savings had come from.
Had the advisor asked further questions, I think it wouldve become clear that the source of 
the deposit was from Miss Bs student loan which she hadnt used for its intended purpose. 
And it couldve then made her aware at that stage that her application wouldnt be approved.
I appreciate Halifax thinks Miss B gave misleading information when she said her funds were 
from savings rather than a student loan. But at the moment, I dont agree. Miss Bs student 
loan was granted to live off while studying. Instead of relying on that, she says she earned 
her own income to live off. So I think it's reasonable she considered her student loan  which 
shed kept and not used during her studies  as money shed saved.
Miss Bs unhappy with what happened after she raised her complaint. In particular, she says 
she was advised Halifax could reopen her application despite her circumstances not being 
any different. Whilst I appreciate this information mightve been confusing, at the moment, I 
cant see that Halifax gave her the wrong information here. I say this because it seems it was 
willing to reconsider things if she could show  as she indicated  that she had sufficient 
funds to make up her deposit that didnt come from her loan. But from looking at the 
evidence shes given us so far, I dont think shes been able to do this.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen so far, to put things right in this case, I think Halifax should:
Reimburse Miss B the £360 she spent on the solicitor searches upon confirmation from 
her solicitors that this hasnt already been refunded to her;
Add 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date she paid the fees to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove the credit search added to Miss Bs credit file as part of the mortgage 
application.
Miss Bs said as a result of the mortgage application being declined, her house purchase fell 
through. I accept if things hadnt gone wrong, she likely wouldnt have been given the 
borrowing or at least wouldve been given it on different terms  so she might not have been 
able to go ahead with buying a house anyway. But I can appreciate it mustve been much 
more disappointing for her that things fell through at the stage of the process it did. So at the 
moment, to make up for this, I also think Halifax should pay her £150 in compensation.I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Both 
parties accepted my provisional decision. Halifax said in summary that whilst the information 
Miss B gave about her savings was plausible at the time, additional probing during the 
application shouldve highlighted the true source of the deposit. It confirmed Miss B would 
need to provide evidence her solicitor hadnt already refunded the fees shed paid for the 
searches. And our investigator explained that would need to be arranged between the 
parties following my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything both parties have said in response to my provisional decision. 
As theyve both accepted my findings, I see no reason to change my conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision, including how Halifax should put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to put things right by:
Reimbursing Miss B the £360 she spent on the solicitor searches upon confirmation from 
her solicitors that this hasnt already been refunded to her;
Adding 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date she paid the fees to the 
date of settlement*;
Removing the credit search added to Miss Bs credit file as part of the mortgage 
application;
Paying Miss B £150 in compensation.
* If Halifax considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman