DRN-4097030
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled 
a claim for windscreen replacement under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H has a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering her specialist sports car.
In June 2020 Miss H noticed that her windscreen had been damaged and she made a claim. 
Advantage sent a national contractor, who Ill refer to as N, who replaced the windscreen.
In December 2020, Miss H noticed some water was leaking into the car. She poured water 
on the windscreen and it leaked through to the inside. 
N inspected the windscreen and it was damaged in the process of attempting to repair the 
installation. So N replaced it again. But Miss H noticed that the interior of her car was still 
getting wet following a heavy rainstorm in July 2021. 
Miss H also said she could see that the cars trim was damaged which she thought was due 
to its repeated removal, so she complained about this to Advantage. She also complained to 
Advantage that the leak and repairs had caused damage to part of the cars systems 
including the GPS antenna which is closely linked to the windscreen.
Advantage agreed to pay for the cars manufacturer to inspect the cars windscreen. The 
manufacturer, who Ill refer to as P, produced a report in September 2021 saying that it 
couldnt definitively find the source of the leak.
P also found some damage had occurred to some parts that needed careful handling when 
the windscreen was been removed, and it replaced them. The inspection and associated 
replacement work, which included the GPS antenna, was paid for by Advantage at a cost of 
about £1,100.
Advantage said it thought Ps report clarified that the windscreen was fitted properly.
The leak continued and Miss H asked Advantage to pay for a more specific report. 
Advantage wouldnt pay for any further reports. Advantage offered Miss H £30 compensation 
for its poor handling of her complaint.
Miss H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks that the 
windscreen is replaced by another company, and the trim and electrical issues rectified. She 
also asks for an apology for the way her claim has been handled over two years, and 
compensation for her stress and inconvenience.
Our investigator looked into Miss Hs complaint and upheld it. She said she thought 
Advantage should pay for another report, because the report P produced didnt explicitly say 
whether the leak was from the windscreen, or elsewhere.
Advantage didnt agree with the investigators view. It said Miss H could pay for a further 
test, and it would refund her if the windscreen was found to be the cause of the leak. 
Because Advantage didnt agree with the view, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Miss Hs complaints have been dealt with separately by this service, but having read the file, 
I think its fair that I deal with all of the aspects together as I reasonably think they are linked. 
I say this because its evident that the car hadnt leaked in the first six years of Miss Hs 
ownership, and this only began after the first windscreen replacement.
Im issuing this decision on a provisional basis because Ive included Miss Hs other 
complaints within this one. Id ask both parties to review this decision and provide feedback 
on it. 
Having considered all of the evidence, Im intending to uphold Miss Hs complaint, and Ill 
explain why.
I can see from Miss Hs evidence that the leak became noticeable about six months after the 
replacement windscreen was fitted by N. Miss H was able to confirm the leak by pouring 
water on it, which would seem to confirm that the new windscreen hadnt been fitted 
correctly. I can see from the file that Advantage has accepted this.
The leak after the second replacement windscreen also seems to have started about 6 
months after it was fitted, again by N. 
It seems to me that Ns work on the windscreen reasonably caused the leak. 
Advantage then paid for P to investigate the leak and repair some of the damage that had 
been caused by N, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
But Ps report didnt definitively identify the source of the leak, and water continued to come 
into the car. 
Generally, the burden of proof lies with a claimant to show theyve suffered losses covered 
under the policy. Its Advantages contention that its reasonable to expect Miss H to look into 
this further and establish what has actually happened. 
But, given that Ive said above that I think N reasonably caused the leak, I also think its 
reasonable that Advantage continue to take responsibility for it. I dont think its fair of 
Advantage to pass that burden back to Miss H.
Miss H has provided extensive supporting information to this service and I thank her for her 
efforts. 
She has obtained quotations from P for the replacement of the damaged trim, another from 
P to replace the windscreen, and a third from a specialist windscreen replacement company.
Miss H says she would prefer the specialist company to carry out the work on the 
windscreen for a cost of £1,351.75, rather than P at a lower cost of £1,034.15. 
She says this because P uses a national contractor to carry out its windscreen work and, 
given the history of the case with N, she believes the specialist company would carry out the 
work to a better standard and with a longer guarantee than Ps contractor. Ive thought carefully about this. From the evidence I have, I think its reasonable that Miss H 
is able to choose the specialist contractor to carry out the work to replace the windscreen. 
I say this because I can see that N twice failed to carry out the work correctly, and even 
though P would use a different national contractor, Im aware anecdotally that work on this 
particular type of car is complex and the specialist is, on the balance of probabilities, best 
placed to assess and carry out the work.
Using this same approach, I also think its reasonable that P replaces the damaged trim. I 
appreciate that Advantage may be able to use its own contractors to save costs, but given 
that the damage has reasonably been caused by using non-specialists, I think its fair that P 
carry out this work and Advantage pay for it.
Its clear to me that Miss H is very much attached to her car and that Advantages claims 
handling has caused her distress over an extended period. She has talked about having to 
remove water and condensation from the car when she wishes to drive it which is clearly 
inconvenient. Ive thought about the amount of compensation this service would award in 
situations like hers, and I think a figure of £150 is appropriate. This figure is in addition to the 
£30 Advantage has offered her for its complaints handling. 
In later correspondence, Miss H also mentions that damage may have already been caused 
to the windscreen surround from the work done by N. Shed like me to consider this point in 
my decision. But Im not able to consider this here because Im only able to provide 
decisions on complaints that have been already made to Advantage. 
So, if further damage is discovered, then Miss H can potentially make a further complaint to 
Advantage and this service in due course if she remains unhappy with its response.
Responses to my provisional decision
Advantage said it had nothing to add to my provisional decision. Miss H responded and 
agreed with my findings. She asked whether I would reconsider the amount of compensation 
I awarded because of the stress, inconvenience and lost time over the course of the claim. 
She points out shes continued to pay her insurance premiums and kept the car taxed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Miss Hs point about increasing the amount of compensation awarded to her 
following the disruption to her life and the stress its caused. Firstly, the costs of owning the 
car are effectively fixed whether or not the car was used, so its not something I can take into 
consideration in this decision.
Ive thought carefully about the length of time Miss Hs ownership has been disrupted by 
Advantages poor repairs and the impact its had on her. 
But its necessary for me to balance this impact with my findings that will mean she receives 
a new windscreen, associated parts and replacement trims. These will be fitted by the 
manufacturer and one of the leading contractors in the particular field. 
What this means is that the relevant parts of Miss Hs car will be significantly bettered as a 
result of my decision. Taking everything into account, I think the compensation Ive awarded 
at £150 (in addition to the £30 for its poor complaints handling) is fair and Im not going to ask Advantage to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay:
The cost of P replacing the trim at £1,487.23.
The cost of the specialist windscreen replacement company to replace the 
windscreen at £1,315.75.
£150 compensation for Miss Hs distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman