DRN-2724810
The complaint
Ms R complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) wrongly deducted its 
fees from her joint account instead of from her sole account.
What happened
Ms R had a mortgage with Danske Bank. All of the mortgage payments were made from her 
sole account. She also had a joint account, but she never used it for the mortgage, and the 
other joint account holder was not a party to the mortgage agreement. (These accounts were 
also with Danske Bank.)
In July 2020 Ms R paid off the mortgage, and as a result she incurred two fees, which were 
described as a mortgage vacate fee and a deeds release fee. These fees were charged to 
the joint account, instead of to the sole account as Ms R had expected. It is no longer in 
dispute that this was an error, but when Ms R complained Danske Bank initially tried to 
suggest that this was her fault. However, the crux of her complaint is that the charging of the 
fees to the joint account was a serious breach of her privacy, because the mortgage was 
nobody elses business, and she had not wanted the other account holder (her partner) to 
know that she had paid it off. She says this resulted in an unwelcome conversation with him, 
at a time which was already difficult due to family issues and the pandemic.
The bank apologised and refunded the fees to the joint account. (Ms R has pointed out that 
this only made the fees even more conspicuous.) Being dissatisfied with that response, 
Ms R brought this complaint to our Service. As a result of that, Danske Bank offered to pay 
her another £100 compensation, but Ms R has asked for more. She also would still like the 
fees to be entirely expunged from her account statements. The bank says that is not 
possible.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, on the ground that the banks new offer 
(which brought the total compensation to £180) was fair. She said that it was not possible to 
restore Ms R to the same position she would have been in if the error hadnt happened, nor 
could she punish the bank by fining it.
Ms R did not accept that opinion. She said the compensation would not alter the fact that her 
personal finances were no longer private, and that the bank had taken too long to recognise 
its mistake. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has clearly described the importance of her privacy and her strength of feeling on this 
issue, both in her initial complaint to the bank and again in her complaint to this Service. 
I appreciate that she feels that she had not been compensated enough. However, I think that 
£180 compensation is in line with what our Service would typically award for something like 
this.
It is regrettable that the bank did not accept that it was responsible for what happened 
straight away. It did however accept its mistake nine days later, when it refunded the fees. 
Unfortunately, there is no way that it can remove the relevant entries from the joint account 
statements. That cannot be helped, but since Ms Rs partner is already aware of the matter, 
there is no ongoing impact caused to her by the entries continuing to remain on the account. 
The damage was done as soon as he saw them.
 My final decision
My decision is that Northern Bank Limited  trading as Danske Bank must pay Ms R the £100 
it has offered her, in addition to the £80 already refunded. I do not require it to do anything 
else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman