DRN-4186753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that the mortgage they hold with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money cant be viewed online. Mr and Mrs K said they werent given clear information 
on this, and said they were now stuck having to ring Virgin to check on their mortgage.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs K, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr K. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr K said he had problems logging in to view his mortgage. He couldnt remember his login 
details. He said the customer care team told him to register a new account. When he did 
that, he got a message to say he already had an account, but he carried on with creating a 
new login, as advised. Mr K said he couldnt then view his account. So he logged in using his 
old account, but he still got the same result.
Mr K said he didnt know what he was wrong, or why he couldnt see his mortgage. He said 
this was very worrying, and although hed asked Virgin what had happened, hed had no 
reply. He said that not being able to view an up to date balance on their mortgage was 
preventing him and Mrs K from putting together an accurate medium term budget.
Mr K said that in other circumstances he would ask Virgin to waive its right to collect an early 
repayment charge (ERC) so they could move their lending elsewhere, but he said that at 
the moment, this would mean a switch to much higher interest rates. So he said Virgin 
should pay financial compensation. He said the amount of that should be decided bearing in 
mind the overall worth of the mortgage over its lifetime, and that he felt this was a serious 
failing in customer service. He thought Virgin should, as a gesture of good will, extend the 
fixed rate for him and Mrs K, saving them money and allowing Virgin to keep them as 
customers for longer. He also thought Virgin should apologise, and provide a timeline for 
when the online portal will be fixed.
Virgin said it could see Mr K had repeatedly tried to access his online account, and had 
failed. It said its online system was unable to allow access to mortgage accounts like that 
held by Mr and Mrs K, which are made up of two separate mortgage products running side 
by side. 
Virgin said it was sorry this affected Mr K, and that he hadnt been told about this sooner 
when he asked what was wrong with the online portal. Virgin said it was looking to improve 
this, but it didnt have a timeline for any changes. 
Virgin also said it was sorry that Mr K had a long wait when he rang about his mortgage. It 
said it was hiring more staff. 
Virgin offered to pay Mr K £250 to apologise. That was made up of £150 for not being able to 
access online banking, £50 for long call waiting times, and £50 for a delay in responding to 
his complaint. Mr K said hed received this payment, but he didnt think it was enough to 
make up for what had gone wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She accepted that Mr K wasnt 
given accurate information about logging in to his online account, or why he then couldnt 
access his mortgage. This had led to unnecessary frustration. And the end result was still 
that Mr K couldnt access his mortgage online, so he would have to either call Virgin or 
review his mortgage statements to get information on his mortgage. 
So our investigator appreciated that the end position here was inconvenient for Mr and Mrs 
K, especially with long call waiting times. But she said it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Virgin 
to alter the mortgage product as compensation, as Mr K had suggested. She said Virgins 
offer was fair and in line with our guidelines.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that if hed realised when he was first applying for this mortgage 
that he wouldnt be able to carry out basic transactions online, he thought it was likely that he 
and Mrs K would have strongly considered alternative products. But our investigator didnt 
change her mind. She said Virgin hadnt promised Mr K online access to his account. 
Mr K wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I accept that Mr K has received some poor service from Virgin, because it didnt explain to 
him that he wouldnt be able to log in to his account and view his mortgage online, either 
when he asked it about problems logging in, or when he asked it why he couldnt then see 
his mortgage. Ill bear that in mind when Im thinking about compensation. 
Moving forward, I understand Mr and Mrs K would very much prefer to be able to view their 
mortgage online. But Virgin says its not able to offer that, because they have a mortgage 
with two separate parts. Its told us that its online facility is limited, and isnt able to display 
this for Mr and Mrs K. 
Our service isnt a regulator, so Im not able to oblige a bank to change how it provides its 
services to customers. Unfortunately, I havent been able to see that Virgin is obliged to 
provide an online account facility for Mr and Mrs K. And, as our investigator noted, it doesnt 
appear to have promised to do so. For those reasons, I dont think that its necessarily unfair 
or unreasonable for Virgin to say it just cant provide this at the moment for Mr and Mrs K. 
I realise this is less convenient for the couple. But mortgages are a long-term product, so I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude this would stop Mr and Mrs K from 
budgeting in the medium term. 
Mr K told us if theyd realised they wouldnt have online access to their mortgage, they would 
have considered alternatives. But I can see that Mr and Mrs K applied in late 2018 to add 
more borrowing to their existing mortgage. An ERC would have been payable at the time if 
theyd chosen to change lender then. The ERC on their mortgage was then over £3,000. I note that when Mr and Mrs Ks complaint came to our service, they suggested if Virgin 
were to agree to save them some money, by extending their fixed interest rate, then they 
would remain its customers. That makes me think Mr and Mrs K are, very sensibly, prepared 
to tolerate some inconvenience, if its in their financial interest. For that reason, I think its 
less likely that Mr and Mrs K would have chosen to pay the ERC and change their mortgage 
lender back in 2018, even if theyd been made aware that they were likely to lose online 
access to their mortgage because of the additional lending.
For those reasons, I agree that the payment Virgin has already made in this case, of £250, 
does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs K will be 
disappointed, but I dont think I can fairly ask Virgin to do more than that. And that means 
this complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman