DRN-4308737
The complaint
Mr S complains that he and his wife were mis-sold timeshare products and the credit 
facilities used to pay for them. The credit facilities were provided by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. 
Mr S is represented by a firm of solicitors which Ill call W. Where I refer to his submissions 
and arguments, I include those made on his behalf.
What happened
In or around May 2004, Mr and Mrs S bought trial membership of Club La Costa Vacation 
Club Limited (the Club), a timeshare and holiday club business. They paid using a credit 
card. 
In April 2005 they upgraded to full membership, buying 1,501 points, which could be 
exchanged for holiday accommodation. The purchase price was funded in part with a loan 
from BPF. That loan was repaid early (Ws notes suggest within about a year). 
In October 2009 Mr and Mrs S bought a further 500 points at a cost of £5,599, financed with 
a 10-year loan from BPF in Mr Ss name. They exchanged their Club points for a fractional 
ownership arrangement (by which they hold a share in property which will be sold and the 
proceeds split amongst all the fractional owners) in 2013. BPF did not finance that 
arrangement. 
In November 2019 Mr S complained to BPF. He said that the timeshare products had been 
misrepresented to him and that, because BPF had financed the purchases in 2005 and 
2009, he had a claim against it in the same way as he had a claim against the seller. He also 
said that no proper checks had been made to ensure that he could afford to repay what he 
had borrowed, and that the actions of the seller and BPF had created an unfair relationship.    
BPF did not respond an any substantive way to Mr Ss claims, and W referred the matter to 
this service. Our investigator, however, did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, 
primarily because of the length of time that had passed since the timeshare sales and the 
provision of the loans. 
Mr S did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.  
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The complaint about irresponsible lending
W says that BPF did not properly assess whether the loans were affordable for Mr S. 
When Mr S took out the first loan, in 2005, the Financial Ombudsman Service had no 
general power to consider complaints about consumer credit activities. It could only do so if 
such activities were ancillary to activities which we could consider  such as general banking 
 or if the respondent business was subject to our voluntary jurisdiction.
Whilst BPF was subject to our compulsory jurisdiction from 14 January 2005, it does not 
seem to me that the loan in April 2005 could be said to be ancillary to activity of BPF that this 
service could have considered then. Granting the loan to Mr S was a stand-alone activity. It 
follows that I have no power to consider the assessment of the 2005 loan by BPF, and I 
therefore make no further comment on it. 
By the time of the 2009 loan, however, the Financial Ombudsman Service did have power, 
under its consumer credit jurisdiction, to consider complaints about regulated consumer 
credit activities. It acquired that power on 6 April 2007. 
W says that BPF did not properly assess whether the 2009 loan was affordable for Mr S. At 
the time, lenders were obliged to assess the affordability of loans and other credit facilities in 
line with guidance issued by, for example, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the Lending 
Standards Board and the Finance and Leasing Association.  
Our own rules say however that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had 
cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in October 2009. Arguably, therefore Mr S only had until October 2015 to refer 
this part of the complaint to us and that, because he didnt, we have no power to consider it.  
Even if I were to take a different view on that, however (perhaps because Mr S would not 
have known the extent of BPFs obligations in assessing affordability and suitability), I have 
seen nothing to suggest that the facility wasnt affordable. It was repaid in late 2019, on the 
face of it in line with the payment schedule in the loan agreement. So, even if BPF should 
have carried out more detailed checks before agreeing the 2009 loan, it does not appear to 
me that the outcome would have been any different.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loans financed the purchase of the Club membership and 
points. The seller was Club La Costa (UK) plc (CLC) and was named as such in the 2009 
loan agreement. The timeshare contracts were therefore financed under pre-existing 
arrangements between CLC and BPF. 
I have therefore considered what the position might be if Mr S were to bring a claim against 
CLC. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr S into the timeshare 
contracts were made on or before 24 April 2005 and 28 October 2009. Mr S did not however 
raise any complaint with BPF until November 2019, more than ten years after the second 
sale. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for 
misrepresentation against CLC would be outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
A credit provider defending a claim under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act can rely 
on any defence which would be available to the seller, including limitation defences. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75(1) was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the 
claims are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the 
sale of the timeshare product.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The relationship created by the 2005 loan 
ended many years ago, very possibly before sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act came into force. The 2009 loan was not repaid until 2019, however. 
In deciding whether a loan creates an unfair relationship, a court can have regard to any 
connected agreement, which in this case could include the agreements with CLC.   
W has not identified anything in the 2009 loan agreement which makes it inherently unfair. 
Rather, it has referred to the actions of CLC and to terms in the timeshare contract which it 
says are unfair. 
Although I have concluded that any claim for misrepresentation against CLC is likely to be 
out of time, I note that the allegations made are not supported by any corroborating 
evidence.
W has also said that the sale was in breach of the Timeshare Regulations 1997 (which 
applied at the time), but again there is little evidence of that or explanation of the effect on Mr 
S of any breach. 
Finally, [Mr] S says that some terms of the timeshare contract (specifically, those relating to 
possible increases in management fees) were unfair withing the meaning of the Unfair 
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 and that the whole agreement clause was 
not reasonable and therefore in breach of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977. I note 
however that there is no evidence about the application of those terms in Mr Ss case and 
that, even if there were any breach, the effect would be to make the terms unenforceable. A 
breach does not make the contract void  still less any linked credit agreement. As I have 
indicated, Mr and Mrs S converted their timeshare points into a fractional ownership arrangement many years ago, so there is no risk of any  unfairness arising from them in 
the future. 
I have no power to make an order under section 140B, and it is not for me to say whether a 
court would make an order if invited to do so. In the circumstances, however, it is reasonable 
to think that a court would not do so.         
In response to my provisional decision BPF said it had nothing to add. W did not reply to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything to add, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion from 
that which I reached in my provisional decision. In saying that, however, I stress that I have 
reviewed the complaint in full.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to do anything further to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman