DRN-3639479
The complaint
Mr Q has complained about the tax code which ReAssure Limited used when it paid him his 
first taxable withdrawal from his pension plan. Mr Q has also said that hes unhappy with 
ReAssures administration of his withdrawal and the customer service it provided.
What happened
Mr Q has a retirement account with ReAssure. He requested his first taxable withdrawal of 
£10,000 on 6 January 2022 and ReAssure paid him £7,047.94 net on 27 January 2022.
Mr Qs a basic rate taxpayer, so he was expecting to receive £8,000. He therefore contacted 
ReAssure on 2 February 2022 to query what had happened. In the telephone call, ReAssure 
incorrectly said that it had used the basic rate tax code.
Mr Q then corresponded with ReAssure several times to seek clarification on this, but he 
didnt hear back from ReAssure until 9 March 2022. Mr Q didnt then receive a detailed 
response from ReAssure about the tax code used  and why  until 12 April 2022.
ReAssure explained that it had used tax code 1257L M1, an emergency tax code. That was 
the reason ReAssure applied more tax than Mr Q was expecting.
Mr Q considered that ReAssure should have applied his basic-rate tax code. So he 
complained to ReAssure about the tax code used, along with its administration and the 
customer service hed received.
ReAssure wrote to Mr Q when its eight weeks to investigate the complaint had expired, 
telling him he could refer the complaint to our service. But it hadnt fully investigated the 
complaint by that point. Mr Q therefore referred the complaint to us, and ReAssure has since 
completed its investigation.
ReAssure has said that it applied the correct tax code as it was Mr Qs first taxable
withdrawal from the policy. But it accepted that its customer service and administration didnt
meet reasonable standards. So, it offered Mr Q £50 compensation.
One of our investigators considered the matter, and set his findings out as follows:
When a business such as ReAssure accepted that it had done something wrong, and 
had offered to put things right, it was his role to determine whether the offer was fair 
in the circumstances.
ReAssure had in this instance accepted that its customer service wasnt good 
enough, but maintained that it had used the correct tax code.
When a business processes the first taxable withdrawal in a drawdown pension 
account, an emergency tax code will be used  and then HMRC would confirm the 
correct tax code to use for subsequent withdrawals. And this is what had happened 
here.
If ReAssure had Mr Qs P45, then it could have used his actual basic rate tax code, 
but it didnt. As such, the investigator didnt think that ReAssure had acted unfairly in 
applying the emergency tax code to the first taxable withdrawal.
Although Mr Q had said that he would need to wait for a year until he could claim the 
additional tax back from HMRC, as hed made the withdrawal in the previous tax 
year, he should be able to request this from HMRC without further delay.
Addressing ReAssures offer of £50 for its poor service, the investigator noted that 
ReAssure had missed its service standard of responding to correspondence within 
ten working days on several occasions.
It also took 15 working days for ReAssure to pay Mr Q his withdrawal amount, and 
when he queried the tax code which had been used, ReAssure told him that it had 
used the basic rate code. It then took 25 working days after Mr Qs initial call for 
ReAssure to correct this.
Mr Q didnt then receive a detailed response about the tax code until 12 April 2022.
He didnt think that the £50 offered by ReAssure was sufficient in the circumstances 
to reflect the poor service Mr Q had received from ReAssure. There were multiple 
mistakes, and these would have made it harder for Mr Q to accept what it was telling 
him about the tax code and why it had been used.
The investigator therefore recommended that reassure pay Mr Q a total of £200, 
including the £50 already offered.
ReAssure accepted the investigators recommendation.
But Mr Q asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review, saying in summary that he 
didnt think the amount of compensation being offered was sufficient, given that he had to 
contact ReAssure several times over several months to obtain simple information. This 
caused him stress, and this wasnt the only occasion that hed needed to complain to 
ReAssure.
As requested, the complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
I understand Mr Qs frustration that ReAssure used the emergency tax code and so he paid 
more tax than he was anticipating. But as explained by the investigator, this isnt an unusual 
process, and I dont think I can conclude that ReAssure has acted unfairly in doing this. 
Further, as also set out by the investigator, Mr Q should, by the beginning of the new tax 
year (2022/23) have been in a position to reclaim any overpaid tax from HMRC.
As with the investigator, Ive then thought about the amount of compensation which ReAssure should pay to Mr Q to reflect its customer service. And again, I agree with both the 
investigator and Mr Q that this should have been better. Its understandable that ReAssures 
incorrect initial response regarding the tax code and its delays in offering clarity on this will 
have caused Mr Q further frustration and stress.
But I also need to consider what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances as an 
award in respect of this. And our role is not to punish businesses for their mistakes, but more 
to assess the impact that any mistakes have had on the individual consumer, and then make 
appropriate awards accordingly.
I also need to take into account the types of award that this service might typically make in 
similar situations, and theres information, with examples, about this on our website. Mr Q 
may wish to visit that website, but to quote from the relevant section relating to typical 
awards, it says the following:
An award between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small 
errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically 
result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, 
inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
I think the situation here would be reasonably aligned to the above description, and so I think 
the investigators recommendation, and ReAssures acceptance, of an overall payment of 
£200 is appropriate in the circumstances.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should pay to Mr Q a total of £200.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to pay Mr Q 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman