DRN-2966537
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited approved her for a credit account which she 
feels was unaffordable for her at that time.
What happened
Miss L applied for a Vanquis credit account in April 2019. Her application was approved, and 
Vanquis issued Miss L with a credit card with a £500 credit limit. This credit limit was never 
subsequently increased and remained at £500. 
In January 2021, Miss L raised a complaint with Vanquis on the basis that she felt her initial 
application for credit shouldnt have been approved by Vanquis because the credit wasnt 
affordable for her at that time. 
Vanquis looked at Miss Ls complaint. But they felt that they had undertaken reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Miss Ls financial position at the time of the credit application and 
that there had been nothing resulting from these checks that should have given them cause 
to consider that the credit Miss L was approved for was unaffordable for her at that time. 
Because of this, Vanquis didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Miss L wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Vanquis had 
undertaken reasonable and proportionate checks at the time of the credit application and 
that these checks hadnt highlighted anything that ought reasonably to have given Vanquis 
cause to suspect that Miss L might not be able to afford the credit being offered. As such, 
our investigator also didnt uphold this complaint.
Miss L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Vanquis say that they did that here. At the time of the credit account application they took 
details of Miss Ls income and expenditure information to confirm that any potential monthly 
repayments would be affordable for Miss L at that time. And given the information that 
Vanquis received from Miss L here  that she had an annual income of approximately 
£12,000 with monthly expenditure of £240  Id find it difficult to censure Vanquis for 
concluding from that information that Miss L most likely could afford any potential monthly 
account repayments at that time.
Vanquis also reviewed information from Miss Ls credit file in order to gain a better 
understanding of Miss Ls wider financial position. And, while there was some adverse 
information recorded on Miss Ls credit file, including a default and a county court 
judgement, this adverse information was all over five years old at the time of the account 
application, while Miss Ls more recent credit history appeared to be non-problematic. 
Considering this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Vanquis to have concluded that Miss 
Ls more recent credit history didnt provide anything that ought to have indicated to Vanquis 
that Miss L might not be able to afford the credit account that shes applied for, and I dont 
feel that the older adverse information on Miss Ls credit file ought to have overridden 
Vanquis assessment of Miss Ls more recent credit history. 
Miss L has stated that she feels that Vanquis ought to have undertaken more rigorous 
checks into her financial position before approving her for credit, including that they ought to 
have asked to review her bank account statements. 
I can appreciate Miss Ls position here, but what this service would expect Vanquis to have 
done would be to undertake checks that are reasonable and proportionate in consideration 
of the circumstances of the application. And, in this case, I dont feel that it would have been 
proportionate, or reasonable, for Vanquis to have asked to review Miss Ls bank account 
statements given the non-problematic nature of the information that theyd already gathered 
as well as the relatively low credit amount of £500 under consideration.
Miss L has also stated that she feels Vanquis ought to have realised that the monthly 
expenditure amount of £240 that she provided to them was unrealistically low, and that 
Vanquis should have made further enquiries. 
But Miss L was given the opportunity to provide information about her monthly expenditure 
to Vanquis and she gave her monthly expenditure amount as £240. Additionally, I dont feel 
that it necessarily follows that this amount should have been considered as being incorrect 
by Vanquis, and I note that there are several possible scenarios where such a monthly 
expenditure amount is plausible, including that this genuinely was Miss Ls monthly 
expenditure amount or that Miss L received financial assistance from other sources. 
Ultimately, I dont feel that it was unfair for Vanquis to have based their assessment of Miss 
Ls financial position on the information given to them by Miss L.
Im also satisfied that Vanquis did conduct reasonable and proportionate checks into Miss 
Ls financial position, and it follows from this that I dont feel that any further enquiries were 
necessary in this instance on Vanquis behalf. And again, this is because of the non-
problematic nature of the information that Vanquis had already gathered as well as the 
relatively low credit amount being considered. 
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Vanquis have acted unfairly 
toward Miss L here by approving her for the credit that they did on the basis of the 
information which they gathered about her  and which was gathered by checks which Im 
satisfied were reasonable and proportionate in consideration of the amount of credit being 
applied for.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss L was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Vanquis to take any further action at this 
time. I trust that Miss L will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman