DRN-2963093
The complaint
Mr K complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy unfairly and charged him a cancellation fee. He also complains hell have to 
declare this on future insurance applications which will increase his premiums.
For the purpose of the decision, any reference to Mulsanne also includes any agents acting 
on their behalf.
What happened
In early September 2020, Mr K took out a motor insurance policy with Mulsanne using his 
mobile phone and was asked to send in his identification and proof of no claims documents 
to verify the information hed supplied to take out the policy. Mr K submitted these 
documents several times but didnt get confirmation from Mulsanne theyd been received.
A week later, Mr K received an email from Mulsanne saying they were cancelling his policy 
as hed given misleading information when taking it out. Mulsanne explained that Mr K had 
input his date of birth incorrectly, so they would only continue with his policy for seven days 
to allow him to find alternative cover, and he would also be charged £75 as a cancellation 
fee.
Mr K didnt agree. He said hed input his date of birth incorrectly by six days and this had 
been a mis-type when hed applied using his phone. He felt Mulsanne were being 
unreasonable and he was unhappy they felt this had been intentional. He also didnt think 
the cancellation fee was fair, so he tried to cancel the policy himself as he was still in his 14-
day cooling off period. 
Mulsanne upheld the complaint in part. They said theyd cancelled the policy because they 
felt Mr K had input his date of birth incorrectly so he could take out a policy with them, and 
hed agreed to a declaration saying all the information on the application was correct. They 
also said theyd carried out additional checks when Mr Ks documents had been received 
which showed there had also been variations in his date of birth when hed been looking at 
quotes. So they felt there had been an intentional misrepresentation and therefore didnt 
wish to proceed with offering Mr K the policy.
Mulsanne also said because theyd cancelled the policy, they were entitled to charge the 
cancellation fee, in line with the terms and conditions. They noted Mr K had also tried to 
cancel to avoid the fee, however this was after theyd already done so and therefore the fee 
was still payable. However, they did agree it had taken some time to tell Mr K theyd 
received his documents, and that the information hed provided was incorrect. So they paid 
him £50 for the inconvenience. Mr K remained unhappy, so he asked this service to look into 
his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She felt Mulsanne had acted 
in line with their terms and conditions as Mr K had agreed to the declarations, confirming the 
information hed submitted was correct  and it wasnt. She also felt Mulsanne hadnt acted 
unfairly, as they hadnt based their decision solely on this one application error.
The investigator also thought Mulsanne had applied the cancellation fee fairly. She felt that 
although Mr K had tried to cancel the policy in the 14-day cooling off period, Mulsanne had 
already started the cancellation process by this point, so they were fair to apply the 
cancellation fee as stated in the terms and conditions. 
Mr K didnt agree. He felt it was unfair the cancellation would now have to be declared on the 
insurance database and was concerned about the impact this would have. He also said the 
reason for the quotes with different dates of birth was because he was trying to see if it was 
cheaper for his wife to be the named driver or himself. As an agreement couldnt be reached, 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mulsanne thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he input his date of birth incorrectly on the online application. They feel this was a deliberate 
misrepresentation as Mr K had created different quotes with different dates of birth before 
hed decided to proceed with this application.
Ive looked at the question Mr K was asked about his date of birth, and based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think Mr K took reasonable care when answering this question on the online 
application. I say this because Mr K was asked to input his own date of birth. And I think this 
was a clear question asked by Mulsanne through the comparison site Mr K used.
Mr K explained he mis-typed his wifes date of birth instead of his own as theyre similar. 
However, Ive seen screen-shots of the online application form which shows it uses a drop-
down box for the dates. I appreciate Mr K has told us he was looking at different quotes to 
see whether it was cheaper for himself or his wife to be the named driver. But as Mr K and 
his wifes dates of birth are more than one day apart, Im not persuaded the error happened 
in the way Mr K has described. And I think this means Mr K failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when he input the incorrect date of birth.
As I think he failed to take reasonable care when making his application, I need to consider 
whether the incorrect information he gave has made a difference i.e. would Mulsanne have 
made the same decision had the misrepresentation not been made. Mulsanne have shown us evidence theyve undertaken additional checks to ensure the 
information provided across Mr Ks different quotes was accurate. In doing so they used 
credit, fraud, claims, and quote databases to gather this information. When undertaking 
these checks, Mulsanne identified several quotes in a short space of time and 
inconsistencies in the information. 
Considering all the information available to them, Mulsanne have shown that had the 
misrepresentation not been made and the correct information been given, they wouldnt 
have offered Mr K this policy. This means Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one. 
Mulsanne has said Mr Ks misrepresentation was deliberate because they feel he provided a 
false date of birth in order to purchase a policy with them. They also said when they 
undertook their additional checks, they noticed there were variations in the dates of birth Mr 
K had provided on the quotes which raised concerns about the accuracy of the other 
information he had given on the policy application. So they didnt feel comfortable amending 
Mr Ks date of birth and continuing with the policy. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
agree that Mr Ks misrepresentation was deliberate. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate. Ive looked at the 
actions Mulsanne can take in accordance with CIDRA. In this case, Ive seen that Mulsanne 
cancelled Mr Ks policy, giving him seven days notice to find alternative cover. They also 
arranged a pro-rated refund of Mr Ks annual premium which hed paid upfront, deducting 
the cost of the days Mr K had been on cover and less the cancellation fee of £75 which was 
in line with their terms and conditions.
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as Mulsanne could have retained all 
Mr Ks premiums as the misrepresentation as treated as deliberate. I recognise Mr K feels 
he should be refunded the cancellation fee as he tried to cancel within the 14-day cooling off 
period. However, Mulsanne had already started the cancellation process by this point and 
made Mr K aware that they were taking this action. So I think Mulsanne have acted fairly and 
in-line with their terms and conditions.
Mr K told us he was unhappy with how his policy was cancelled and the wording used. I 
recognise this would have been upsetting for Mr K, however, looking at the evidence from 
Mulsanne, I think the case handler was just using industry terminology to describe what the 
cancellation had been classified as by Mulsanne on this occasion. So I dont think there was 
any intention to cause offence to Mr K. Ive seen that Mulsanne apologised and paid Mr K 
£50 because of this and Im satisfied theyve done enough to put this right.
I recognise that Mr K feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that Mulsanne treated Mr K unfairly 
by cancelling his policy in the way that they have. So, I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman