DRN-1504826
 
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was taken out in 2002 in connection with a mortgage. It provided cover for Mrs N 
if she couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mrs N didn't agree with 
the adjudicator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mrs Ns needs?
-           Did Halifax give Mrs N the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs 
N is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs N says she was put under pressure by Halifax to buy the PPI, and that she wasn't given 
a proper choice. She says the bank told her that without the cover she could lose her home if 
she couldn't work, so she felt she had to buy it. I've noted everything Mrs N has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs N and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.Without anything else to support what Mrs N has told me, I consider it could've been just as 
likely that Halifax made her aware she had a choice about buying the policy. Overall, I dont 
think I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make Mrs N aware that the PPI was 
optional.
Halifax advised Mrs N to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-           Mrs N was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
-           Mrs N says she was entitled to employer benefits if she couldnt work due 
to sickness or accident, and that she had substantial savings. Mrs N says the combination of 
her sick pay and savings meant she could cover her mortgage payments for long enough to 
make the PPI unnecessary.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Ns employer benefits. Having the policy in 
place wouldve meant Mrs N could use her employer benefits and savings to pay for other 
expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her, despite her existing 
arrangements. 
-          Mrs N wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-         I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs N before she agreed to buy it. 
But she took out the cover knowing she would have to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs N would have made 
a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs N wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mrs N would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs N paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs N back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman