DRN-3427585
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money he lost after 
falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) car purchase scam, whereby he sent 
money to an account held at Barclays.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In summary, Mr T fell victim to a car purchase scam with Mr T making a payment / transfer 
of £8,970 on 1 April 2021 from his bank account, to an account held at Barclays.
After the scam was revealed, Mr T complained to his Bank and also raised concerns about 
Barclays, where the receiving bank account was held. 
Mr Ts Bank and Barclays are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made, which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may 
also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also 
failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Mr T was reimbursed 50% of his loss from his Bank  with it advising that Mr T should share 
some responsibility for the loss as it considered that Mr T hadnt met his requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code.
Barclays didnt consider it was liable for any loss Mr T incurred.
Mr T brought his complaint about both his Bank and Barclays to our service. 
Mr Ts complaint about his Bank, as the Sending Firm, was looked at under a separate 
complaint reference. In that case a final decision was issued which concluded that Mr Ts 
Banks decision to reimburse 50% of Mr Ts loss was fair. 
In this case, Mr T says Barclays, as the Receiving Firm, should also share some 
responsibility. Mr T wants it to refund him the remaining loss as he considers one of its 
accounts was opened and being used fraudulently.
Barclays, in its final response letter to Mr T, didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Mr T 
incurred. It said that the funds Mr T had paid into the account were utilised by the account 
holder prior to Mr T informing his Bank of the fraud. So it was unable to return any funds. It 
also explained that it had complied with regulatory requirements when opening and 
managing the account and that it had no way of knowing that an account holder will 
subsequently use the account for scams or fraudulent purposes. It also advised that upon 
being made aware of inappropriate conduct on accounts it investigates and takes the 
necessary steps to close an account down where applicable and recover any funds where 
possible. Barclays also said that it was unable to disclose the details of its scam 
investigation due to data protection laws. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend that Barclays needed to 
do anything further. Overall, he was satisfied Barclays had met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for Mr Ts losses as it couldnt reasonably have 
done more to prevent Mr Ts loss. He was also satisfied it had responded appropriately to 
the notification of fraud. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Barclays  as the Receiving 
Firm of the account where Mr T made payment to. Mr Ts complaint about his Bank was 
looked at separately under a different complaint reference with a final decision being issued 
on the matter. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but Im not upholding his complaint about Barclays. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam, but I dont believe Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Barclays has met its 
requirements under the CRM Code and therefore isnt liable for any of Mr Ts remaining 
losses. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Barclays, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Barclays has signed 
up to.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Barclays met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Barclays opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Barclays any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Barclays acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Ts 
loss.  
I would like to point out to Mr T at this point, that while Barclays has provided our service 
with information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to 
allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and Barclays has provided that which is 
necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service 
cant share any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any 
investigation and action Barclays subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mr T, 
I have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my 
decision.Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
I appreciate Mr T has said he doesnt think Barclays has followed correct procedures as an 
account was opened and was subsequently used fraudulently. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. 
There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted Barclays that the 
account it was opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied Barclays has taken 
reasonable steps to prevent the accounts being opened for criminal purposes and it didnt 
miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Ts loss when opening the account.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Barclays as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment Mr T made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Barclays might 
have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers 
payment instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays has demonstrated that it has taken 
reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam 
funds. I also dont think Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have 
expected it to have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Ts loss in 
this way either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Barclays took the 
necessary actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds 
remained in the account that could be recovered as they had already been moved on / 
withdrawn from the account. 
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Barclays responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice 
Standards. And I dont think I can fairly say Barclays didnt do enough to respond to the 
alleged APP fraud.Overall, while Mr T was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Barclays met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Barclays couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Ts money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Mr T for his remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman