DRN-3648850
The complaint
Ms C complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans was irresponsible 
in its lending to her.
What happened
Ms C was provided with a 24-month fixed sum loan agreement for £1,300 in September 
2019. The monthly repayments were around £133.  
Ms C says at the time of the lending she had a poor credit history and that she had to borrow 
further to repay the loan. She says adequate checks would have shown the loan wasnt 
affordable.
Everyday Loans says that before the loan was provided it gathered information about Ms Cs 
employment, monthly income, monthly rent and used a third-party data source to estimate 
her living expenses. It received copies of two months worth of banks statements as well as 
carrying out a credit check and job check. Based on these checks it says the lending was 
affordable even before any debt consolidation (which was what Ms C had said the loan was, 
in part, for). 
Our adjudicator thought the checks carried out by Everyday Loans before the loan was 
provided were reasonable. However, he thought the evidence collected showed that Ms C 
was struggling financially and that the loan shouldnt have been considered sustainably 
affordable.
Everyday Loans didnt agree with our investigators view. It said the defaults on Ms Cs credit 
file were at least 12 months old and that it included an amount for the repayments of the 
historic defaults in its calculations. It said the payday loans Ms C had taken out were 
consolidated with the loan and so werent a reason for the loan not to be granted. It said that 
the loan was affordable based on its checks and that Ms C experienced a change in 
circumstances which resulted in her repayment issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Loans will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Everyday Loans gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Ms C about her ability to repay. I say this because it 
completed a credit check, gathered information about Ms Cs income and expenses and 
received copies of Ms Cs bank statements.  However, just because I think it carried out 
proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive 
thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ms Cs credit report showed that she had experienced financial difficulties previously. She 
had defaulted on five occasions with the most recent default being just over a year before 
the loan application. I accept these defaults were historic and note Everyday Loans 
comments that the repayments on these accounts were factored into its assessment. I do 
not think these defaults necessarily mean the loan shouldnt have been provided, but I do 
think a thorough assessment of Ms Cs financial circumstances needed to be undertaken to 
ensure the new lending was affordable for her. 
Having looked through Ms Cs bank statements these show that she received income from 
her employment and also from benefits. These amounts varied and there is a comment in 
the notes about Ms Cs benefit payments being lower in August 2019 due to these being 
renewed at the time and I can see that a higher amount was paid in the previous two 
months. That said, I find it reasonable that a conservative approach was taken, and the 
lower benefits amount included. This gave Ms C a monthly income of around £1,445. This 
amount was lower than the amount of £1,589 included in Everyday Loans calculation.
Everyday Loans recorded Ms Cs rent as £320, credit commitments of around £486 and 
living costs of £710.This gives a total of just over £1,500. Having looked through Ms Cs 
banks statements her expenses appear slightly lower at around £1,400. I note that Everyday 
Loans then included an amount for the debt consolidation and the repayment of its loan and 
found Ms C had a disposable income of around £69. This is a low amount of disposable 
income and doesnt provide room for unexpected costs. Taking a different approach and 
considering the lower income found through Ms Cs bank statements but also the lower 
costs, this still doesnt suggest that the lending would have been sustainably affordable for 
Ms C.
Ms Cs banks statements also showed that she had three returned direct debits in July and 
one in August, suggesting she was struggling to manage her money.
Based on the information provided, I think that Everyday Loans shouldnt have considered 
the lending as sustainably affordable for Ms C and therefore I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To settle Ms Cs complaint, Everyday Loans should:
Deduct all the repayments Ms C made from the total amount she received through 
the loan.
a) If this results in Ms C having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date 
the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Ms C.
Once the capital has been repaid, remove any adverse information recorded on 
Ms Cs credit file relating to loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans should take the actions set out above in settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman