DRN-1825809
The complaint
Mr F has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly turned 
down a claim on his car hire excess insurance policy.
Reference to AIG includes its agents.
What happened
Mr F booked a hire car, for a trip abroad, through a booking agent. The terms of the car hire 
agreement included a collision damage waiver (CDW). Mr F hit a rock in the road while 
driving and the car suffered some damage. The car hire company charged him a fee, 
equivalent to £252.51, because of that damage. Mr F claimed for that sum on his excess 
policy. AIG turned down the claim because Mr F couldn't provide a copy of the hire 
companys CDW terms and conditions.
Mr F didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He didn't think AIG had dealt with Mr F fairly. So he said it should pay his claim 
for £252.51 and add simple interest to that sum. AIG didn't agree so the complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
The purpose of Mr Fs policy was to cover the excess in the event he had to make a claim 
against a CDW agreement for damage to a hire car. So I can understand that AIG would 
want to be satisfied that Mr F would be required to pay an excess in order to determine 
whether he was eligible to claim on his policy.
Mr F has given AIG all the documents his policy says he is required to submit in order for 
him to claim. But AIG also asked him for a copy of the car hire companys CDW terms and 
conditions, which would have set out the details of the excess Mr F had to pay. It might help 
if I explain that a CDW acts like an insurance policy for car hire companies. CDWs often 
have high excesses, which is why Mr F took out his policy with AIG - to cover himself in the 
event he had to make a claim. But Mr F hasn't been able to provide AIG with a copy of the 
CDW terms and conditions. 
AIG said that without sight of that document it can't say for certain if a CDW was included in 
the final hire agreement. So it can't say that Mr F is eligible to claim under the terms of its 
policy. And it doesn't know what excess the CDW agreement required Mr F to pay. It added 
the hire companys terms might be different to the booking agents. So it thinks its 
reasonable to withhold settling the claim until Mr F produces the CDW terms and conditions. 
I don't think AIGs approach is fair. Its policy documents don't make it clear that Mr F would 
need to supply the hire company's CDW terms and conditions in order to make a successful 
claim. Mr F gave AIG all of the other documents the policy clearly says he needed to supply. 
And I think if the CDW terms and conditions are essential for AIG to be able to settle a claim, 
then I think its policy should make it clear that information is required in order to do so. But it 
doesn't.
Further the booking agents documents show a CDW waiver was included within Mr Fs hire 
car booking. And as that booking agent also arranged the hire car abroad Im persuaded that 
Mr F did have a CDW agreement as part of his booking with the hire company. And while the 
booking agents documents don't show the exact excess that would apply to the CDW 
agreement, a sum of roughly £250 seems reasonable in the circumstances and a likely 
excess on a CDW policy. So I think its more likely than not that Mr F did have the 
appropriate CDW agreement to be eligible to claim on the policy. And that he had to pay an 
excess of £252.51. It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this case, I think its fair for 
AIG to pay Mr Fs claim. And as hes been without the use of that money it should add 
simple interest to that settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require American International 
Group UK Limited to pay Mr Fs claim for £252.51. It should add interest to that settlement at 
a rate of 8% a year simple from the date of Mr Fs claim to the date it pays him.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If AIG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.