DRN-4142407
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T complain that AWP P&C SA declined their travel insurance claim and about its 
service. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr T bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, the policy reference 
beginning with E (policy E), which covered them from 1 October 2021 until 30 September 
2022. In August 2022 they renewed the policy, the policy reference beginning with N (policy 
N), which covered them from 1 October 2022 to 30 September 2023. Both policies were 
insured by AWP.
Mrs and Mr T were due to travel abroad on 30 September 2022. The trip had been booked in 
2019 but had to be rescheduled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
As the trip was due to start on the last day of cover by policy E Mrs and Mr T knew they 
would have to renew the insurance to be covered for the rest of their trip. However, in 
July 2022 Mr T went to see his GP as hed recently had issues with his breathing. On 
12 August 2022 Mr T saw a cardiologist who thought he would need a new heart valve, but 
first he needed a CT scan and depending on the outcome the recommended treatment and 
timings would be confirmed.
Mrs and Mr T said:
On 15 August 2022 Mrs T called AWPs screening team and then its renewal team to 
tell AWP about Mr Ts health issue and renew the insurance for a further year. 
Policy N was issued that date and Mrs and Mr T say AWP told her they would need 
to pay an extra premium for Mr Ts medical condition once it was confirmed what his 
treatment would be.
On 22 August 2022 the doctors told Mr T that his hospital procedure would be on 
22 September 2022.
Mrs T called AWPs screening team on 23 August 2022 to tell it the date of the 
medical procedure and she was told to call back after the procedure had been 
completed to pay the extra premium.
On 24 August 2022 Mr Ts GP told Mr T to cancel the trip due to the procedure. On 
30 August 2022 Mrs and Mr T cancelled the trip.
On 9 September 2022 Mrs and Mr T made a claim for the costs of their cancelled 
trip.
On 23 September 2022, the day after the hospital procedure had taken place, Mrs T 
called AWP to tell it the treatment Mr T had and they paid the extra premium AWP 
asked for.
In November 2022 AWP declined the claim. It said the medical certificate completed by 
Mr Ts GP to support the claim showed Mr T had been diagnosed with a medical condition in 
2012 and that he went for a consultation due to the exacerbation of the condition in 
July 2022. AWP said that meant Mr Ts medical condition was a pre-existing condition 
investigated within in the last five years of taking out the policy which wasnt covered under 
the policy terms.
Mrs and Mr T complained to us. In summary they said:
AWP unfairly declined the claim. Mr T had endocarditis in 2012 from which hed 
recovered at the time and hed had no treatment or medication for that condition in 
the last five years before they took out policy E in 2021. So he didnt have a pre-
existing condition as defined by the policy terms.
In August 2022 Mr T declared the medical condition he needed treatment for when 
they bought policy N and they followed AWPs instructions about paying the premium 
to cover the medical condition. 
Their claim should be covered by one or both of the policies. They believe the cost of 
the lost trip exceeded the limit of the cover under the policy but they want AWP to 
pay the claim to the policy limit.
Our investigator said AWP had unfairly declined the claim. She recommended AWP pay the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms plus interest, and pay Mrs and Mr T £100 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience its poor handling of their claim caused.
Mrs and Mr T accepted our investigators recommendation. AWP didnt respond to our 
investigators recommendation despite her chasing it for a response several times so the 
complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that AWP has had reasonable opportunity to respond to our investigators 
recommendation and hasnt, so I think its reasonable for me to now make a decision on the 
complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think AWP unreasonably declined the claim and unfairly handled the claim. I uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions of policy E and policy N cover Mrs and Mr T up to £5,000 
per insured person if they have to cancel their trip due to illness.
A policy exclusion under the cancellation section of the policies says AWP wont pay for:
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection 
with:

2. A pre-existing medical condition unless the insurer has agreed to provide cover 
and you have paid any additional premium required. 
The general exclusions of the policies include:You will not be covered under  Section D  Cancellation or curtailment .. for any 
claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection with 
either;
1 At the time of taking out this policy:
a.Any pre-existing medical condition unless you have contacted the medical 
screening service on (phone number), online at (website address) and the 
insurer has agreed to provide cover and you have paid any additional 
premium required.
The policy defines pre-existing medical condition as:
a. Any respiratory condition (relating to the lungs or breathing), heart condition for 
which you have received treatment (including surgery, tests or investigations by your 
doctor or a consultant/specialist or prescribed medication) in the last five years.
b. Any medical condition for which you have received surgery, in-patient treatment or 
investigations in a hospital or clinic within the last 12 months, or are prescribed 
medication.
AWP said it wouldnt pay the claim as the trip was cancelled due to an exacerbation of 
Mr Ts pre-existing condition of endocarditis (a heart condition) which he had in 2012. I dont 
think AWP reasonably declined the claim on that basis.
The medical certificate from Mr Ts GP says:
The trip had to be cancelled because Mr T needed an aortic valve implantation due 
to the deterioration of a surgical valve. 
Mr T first consulted the GP on the matter in July 2022 and he was diagnosed on 
12 August 2022. 
Mr T had a related condition of an aortic valve replacement due to endocarditis in 
2012. He hadnt been on regular review or medication for that condition. 
In the last 12 months Mr T hadnt had in-patient treatment, hadnt been on a waiting 
list for treatment and hadnt had a terminal diagnosis.
Mr T was medically advised to cancel the trip on 24 August 2022.
The GPs evidence supports the information that Mrs and Mr T have given. The last known 
investigation of Mr Ts related condition, evidenced in the claim form by the GP, was in 2012. 
That was more than five years before Mrs and Mr T took out policy E in 2021. So I dont 
think AWP reasonably considered that condition to be a pre-existing condition, as defined by 
the policy terms, when Mrs and Mr T took out policy E.
The trip departure date was on 30 September 2022, which was covered under policy E as 
that covered from 1 October 2021 to 30 September 2022. I think that when Mrs and Mr T 
had to cancel the trip in August 2022 they were covered for cancellation by Policy E. The 
medical condition which caused the cancellation wasnt a pre-existing condition as defined 
by the policy terms. 
AWP hasnt said, or referred to any policy wording which says, that policy E cant be 
considered to cover this claim as some of the trip extended later than policy Es last date of 
cover. But even if I thought the claim wasnt covered under policy E because of that issue 
I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to cover the claim under policy N. 
The GPs evidence confirms that Mrs and Mr T were advised to cancel the trip due to Mr Ts 
condition on 24 August 2022. AWP hasnt disputed that Mrs T had already declared Mr Ts 
condition to AWP on 15 August 2022, before the policy renewed, and that it agreed to cover 
the condition. The cancellation of the trip happened before the premium was paid. But AWP 
hasnt disputed what Mrs and Mr T have said about them delaying paying the premium because they followed AWPs instructions about when to pay. AWPs letter to Mr T of 
23 September 2022 confirms the aortic valve replacement had been declared and hed paid 
an extra premium for the condition to be covered.
In all the circumstances I dont think AWP could fairly decline the claim under policy N on the 
basis that the claim was caused by an excluded pre-existing condition. On the evidence 
I have Mrs and Mr T declared his medical condition when taking out policy N, AWP had 
agreed to cover it for a premium which it said it would later calculate and which Mrs and Mr T 
paid.
Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable outcome is for AWP to pay the claim, as Ive detailed 
below.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen that AWPs unreasonable handling of the claim caused 
Mrs and Mr T considerable of distress and inconvenience over several months. AWP has 
given no reason why it shouldnt pay compensation for Mrs and Mr Ts distress and 
inconvenience. I think the £100 compensation our investigator recommended is a 
reasonable amount to acknowledge their distress and inconvenience it caused.
 Putting things right
AWP should pay Mrs and Mr Ts claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits plus 
interest as Ive detailed below. It should also pay Mrs and Mr T £100 for their distress and 
inconvenience its unfair service caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to:
pay Mrs and Mr Ts claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits plus 
interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement, and
pay Mrs and Mr T £100 for their distress and inconvenience its unfair service caused.
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs and Mr T a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman