DRN-3463828
The complaint
Mr M complains that AutoMoney Limited (Automoney) misrepresented a hire purchase 
agreement to him, as there is a discrepancy with the mileage of the vehicle he acquired from 
them. 
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement in February 2021 for a used vehicle. At the 
time of the agreement, the vehicle was around 7 years old and noted as having covered 
88,332 miles. 
In October 2021 Mr M complained to the business about the mileage recorded. He was 
attempting to sell the vehicle and had been told by several traders that there was a mileage 
discrepancy on its MOT history. He felt the vehicle had been mis-sold to him because of this. 
Automoney responded to the complaint, saying that there must have been a keying error 
when the MOT had been recorded in 2016, and the wrong mileage must have been entered 
at that point. They said that they believed that the mileage was correctly recorded for all the 
following MOT tests. They also said that the MOT centre used in 2016 had changed 
ownership now, and the new owners didnt have records relating to this test. 
Mr M didnt agree with this and raised his complaint with our service. The investigator here 
did not uphold his complaint. They said that there was no evidence of the business 
misrepresenting the mileage of the vehicle to Mr M, and on balance, it was most likely to 
have been a keying error from before Automoney acquired the vehicle. They also said that 
as the MOT history of the vehicle was publicly available on the internet, they didnt believe 
the business had attempted to deliberately conceal or misrepresent the vehicles history as 
the information was readily available to any prospective buyer of the vehicle. 
Mr M didnt agree with this view. He asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on 
the case, saying that he feels it was Automoneys responsibility to do the checks on the 
vehicles history. He says they allowed him to choose the vehicle himself and ask them to 
arrange finance, and they should have carried out the checks. 
He believes the vehicle has had its mileage altered, and that the investigator was basing 
their view on assumptions and not facts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The vehicle MOT history available online shows the following entries for the mileage 
recorded at MOT tests:
July 2016  approximately 70,000 miles. 
July 2017  approximately 26,000 miles
July 2018  approximately 47,000 miles
July 2019  approximately 66,000 miles
Nov 2020  approximately 87,000 miles
Nov 2021  approximately 96,000 miles.
This confirms there is clearly an issue with the mileage recorded around 2016-2017. 
I appreciate Mr Ms frustrations that the answers he is being provided are based on 
assumptions, rather than facts. Unfortunately, sometimes when we investigate complaints, it 
is impossible to come up with absolute proof on a case one way or the other. In these 
situations, its my role as an Ombudsman to weigh up the evidence and come to a 
conclusion based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, in my opinion, what is most 
likely to have happened. 
In this case, Mr M feels the mileage has been altered on the vehicle before he acquired it, 
which has disadvantaged him. However, theres no evidence that this has happened. At the 
same time, the business has said that the mileage was keyed incorrectly at the first MOT in 
2016. Theres also no evidence that this has happened either. 
In weighing up the evidence, I agree with our investigator that its most likely that the mileage 
was keyed incorrectly back in 2016, and Ill explain why I think this below. We do see cases 
of this on occasion, and in this instance, it cant be verified because the MOT centre in 
question havent got any records they can supply to verify it or not. 
If the mileage had been altered in some way (clocked), this would have had to occur 
almost certainly between 2016 and 2017, when the recorded mileage at the MOT dropped 
down to about 26,000 miles in 2017, from 70,000 miles keyed in 2016. This is 4 years before 
Mr M acquired the vehicle through Automoney, and there is no evidence even as to who 
owned the vehicle at this point. 
If this had happened, it would mean the real mileage for the vehicle when he acquired it in 
2021 would have been at least 130,000 miles (and potentially a lot more). The vehicle had 
travelled a further 8,000 miles during Mr Ms ownership by November 2021.  Mr M hasnt 
provided any evidence of any problems hes had with the vehicle or any worn or damaged 
parts which might suggest the vehicle was considerably older than he believed when he 
acquired it. 
For the vehicle to have been misrepresented to him by Automoney, theyd need to have 
made a false statement of fact to Mr M which induced him to buy the vehicle. With no 
evidence that anything they have said is false, I cant say that this has happened. Mr M 
believes theyve supplied the vehicle with the wrong mileage, but as explained, there is no 
proof that the mileage recorded when he acquired the vehicle was wrong. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr M feels there is no proof that the mileage was keyed incorrectly in 
2016, there is also no proof that the mileage has been tampered with on the vehicle. Altering 
the mileage isnt an easy thing to do on modern vehicles, and if this had been done, the 
vehicle would have really travelled at least 140,000 miles. Id expect there might have been 
some mechanical issues or excessive wear and tear of parts of the vehicle to have occurred 
if this was the case. But theres no evidence of this. 
Its also less likely that altering the mileage would have happened when the vehicle was only 
around 3 years old and with around 70,000 miles travelled. On the occasions where a vehicles mileage has been deliberately altered, its usually when its much older and has 
covered far more miles, to try to make it appear much more valuable. Im not persuaded that 
this is likely to have been the case with a 3 year old vehicle having covered 70,000 miles. 
Finally, the MOT history of the vehicle was available to Mr M before he acquired it. Im sorry 
that hes ended up in a situation where he is struggling to sell the vehicle, but I cant agree 
this is because of any deliberate mis-sale or misrepresentation by Automoney. The 
discrepancy with the mileage recorded at MOT test dates was available for anyone to see 
before he acquired the vehicle, including himself. There is no firm evidence either way as to 
what has caused this discrepancy, but I believe that on balance, its most likely to be a 
keying error on a previous MOT entry. 
As such, Im not upholding this complaint, and I dont require Automoney to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman