DRN-2256145
The complaint
Mr S has complained that the loan provided by Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely 
Loans (Likely Loans) was provided irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S applied for a loan of £2,500 from Likely Loans on 7 August 2017. The purpose of the 
loan was debt consolidation. The loan details were:
Loan Application Date 
DrawnDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Monthly 
RepaymentsAPR
1 7/8/2017 8/8/2017 Sold to 
third 
party24 £2,500 £163.82 59.99%
The application quoted Mr Ss gross income as £65,000 and said he was a tenant.
Likely Loans approved the loan based on the information in the application and by using 
information from a credit reference agency (CRA).
A total of £3047.04 was repaid by Mr S. The remaining balance of £884.64 was passed to a 
debt collection agency to collect.
Mr S complained to Likely Loans. Likely Loans final response letter was sent to Mr S on 14 
January 2020. It rejected Mr Ss complaint. They said that their assessment of the loan was 
based on its lending criteria at the time. And on the information provided by Mr S at the time, 
plus the data from the CRA. 
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 18 January 2020. He said that 
Likely Loans should not have lent the money. They should have been aware of his other 
debts and they couldnt have properly assessed his application. He provided bank 
statements for June 2017 to July 2017. These showed a significant number of payments to 
gambling businesses. There were also some payday loans credited to the account. He 
provided a credit report dated 25 October 2019. Likely Loans provided a credit report dated 
13 January 2020. Both reports covered the period of the loan application. 
The investigator gave her view on 3 September 2020. She said that Likely Loans had to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure the lending was sustainable. It was 
down to Likely Loans to decide what checks it carried out. Likely Loans did carry out a credit 
check but was not able to provide a copy of the credit report. The credit report dated January 
2020 showed that there were some payday loans outstanding at the time of Mr Ss 
application. The purpose of the new loan was for debt consolidation and it appeared that 
most of the short-term debt was repaid from the new loan - five of the payday loans were 
settled the day after taking the loan from Likely Loans. The new payday loans were taken in 
the three-week period prior to taking the loan from Likely Loans. These may not have shown 
up in the credit searches done by Likely Loans because of the way that data was submitted 
by lenders to the CRAs. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at whether businesses lent irresponsibly, we look at:
- Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to confirm that 
repayments could be made on a sustainable basis.
- Did the lender make a fair lending decision in view of the information it gathered?
- If the relevant checks were not completed, if they had been, would they have shown 
that the lending decision would have been the same.
Likely Loans have not been able to produce the credit checks it did at the time. So, I have to 
consider what information Likely Loans would probably have had at the time of making the 
lending decision and on that basis, decide whether they lent responsibly.
Likely Loans were told in Mr Ss application that his salary was gross £65,000 per annum 
and the electoral roll search showed that he was living with his parents.   
I have looked at the credit reports. They show that Mr S took out many short-term loans from 
payday loan companies around the time of the application to Likely Loans. Typically, these 
were for low amounts (typically £100 to £500), for repayment within one month. 
Firstly, I can see that many of them were taken out after the loan from Likely Loans, and so 
that information would not have been available to Likely Loans at the time of the application.
Secondly, I can see that several loans from payday lenders were taken out in the period 
between May 2017 and June 2017. These were all repaid in about a month. Likely Loans 
would probably have seen this in its credit searches and so would have decided that Mr S 
was meeting his loan commitments. 
I can also see that Mr S took out more than ten payday loans in July 2017 for amounts 
between £150 and £600.  These debts would have been outstanding at the time of his 
application to Likely Loans. I cant say whether these would have been shown in the credit 
searches undertaken by Likely Loans on 7 August 2017. This is because the timing of when 
lenders send information to the CRAs is variable  the credit reports show that some report 
data at the start of the month, some at the end of the month. Lenders may have not reported 
information on loans made in July until the end of August. So I cant safely say Likely Loans 
would have been unaware of those loans at the time. And in any event, the intended 
purpose of the loan here was consolidation so I dont think it would have been unreasonable 
for Likely Loans to take the view that Mr S would use the money as stated (that is to reduce 
his borrowing). 
Mr S has provided his bank account statements for July 2017. These show significant 
expenditure to particular businesses. So, it looks to me as if Mr Ss financial problems began 
to get serious in July 2017. But I dont think that Likely Loans asked for these or should have 
asked for them because I dont think at this point there was anything on the credit bureau 
information that was cause for concern such to have reasonably prompted further enquiries. While Im really sorry to hear Mr Ss situation worsened, I consider the checks Likely Loans 
completed to have been reasonable and proportionate. Taking everything Ive seen, I cannot 
fairly say that Likely Loans did anything wrong in approving the loan Mr S applied for, and as 
such I wont be upholding this complaint or asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman