DRN-2488921
The complaint
Ms M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods, didnt 
accept her offer of settlement for one of her accounts, when it did for the other.
What happened
Ms M had two accounts with Shop Direct. When she found herself having financial 
difficulties, she entered into repayment arrangements for her debts.
 
In 2016, an arrangement was agreed for her to pay £1 a month. She continued this into 2017 
and it was to be reviewed in July 2018.
In May 2018, she offered Shop Direct a settlement figure for each of her accounts. Initially, 
they were both rejected. However, Shop Direct then agreed to accept the settlement figure 
on one account. At that stage her arrangement to pay £1 a month was still in place.
In August 2018, Ms M wrote to Shop Direct and sent it an income and expenditure form. She 
wanted to continue to pay £1 a month. But it said it wasnt able to set up another repayment 
arrangement for her. 
Shop Direct said that arrangements were only set after finding out whether the customers 
circumstances had changed for the better. Ms M had told it that her circumstances hadnt 
changed so it was unable to help her further.
 
In March 2019, Ms M was able to offer to pay £6.28 a month towards her account. But Shop 
Direct then sent Ms M a default notice but she didnt receive this. Her account then defaulted 
in April 2019 and the ownership of her debt was sold onto a third party. Ms M was then able 
to agree a settlement with the third party. 
Ms M complained as she said she hadnt received the default notice and had been told that 
her account wouldnt be sold on while she had an ongoing complaint. She couldnt 
understand why Shop Direct would accept a settlement offer on one of her accounts and not 
the other.
Shop Direct said that, at the time Ms M made her settlement offer for her account, it didnt 
meet the criteria. It said that it had sent Ms M the default notice and it had sold the debt onto 
the third party as Ms M hadnt made the payments requested on her arrangement. But Shop 
Direct said it had made a business decision to amend the date of Ms Ms default to April 
2016. It said it would arrange this and sent Ms M £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
shed been caused by the matter.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said he didnt think Shop Direct had 
acted fairly. He said that he thought it was appropriate to backdate the date Ms Ms account 
defaulted to April 2016, as it had told us that its processes hadnt been followed correctly. 
This is because it would agree a reduced repayment arrangement if this would clear the 
account arrears within 42 instalments as a longer term would be deemed excessive. This 
wouldnt have happened with Ms Ms arrangement. 
But he felt Shop Direct couldve done more to provide Ms M with a better level of customer 
service. He said that because it hadnt followed its processes, Ms M had had to spend nearly 
five years making reduced payments and wasnt given the correct information as she was 
given the impression her debt wouldnt be sold while she had an active complaint. The 
investigator didnt think the £50 Shop Direct had paid Ms M recognised the trouble and upset 
she was caused, so he recommended it should pay her a further £250 in compensation. He 
said she had been prevented from moving forward with her life sooner because of Shop 
Directs mistake.
 
Ms M said that she didnt want this money  she just wanted the default removed. She said 
she may have been able to borrow money from her parents if Shop Direct had made her 
aware of the default situation. She provided documents which she felt demonstrated that her 
parents had the funds to help her. Ms M said the default was stopping her make the life 
changes she wanted, and she felt her settlement offer shouldve been accepted in 2018.
Shop Direct said that the decision to backdate the default wasnt because it had made an 
error. It said it had taken into consideration how this type of account would be dealt with 
now. But it said that it agreed with the investigators recommendation to offer Ms M £250 for 
her distress and inconvenience.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed all the information provided including the details Ms M has shared 
about her financial situation, and how her parents would have looked to help her with this. I 
can appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Ms M and do understand her reasons for 
wanting to resolve this matter for her future plans.
I agree with the investigator in that I think that Shop Direct could have communicated the 
position on Ms Ms complaint more clearly to her. This may have helped her make different 
decisions or would at least given her a greater understanding of the status of her account. 
I say this because in May 2018, when she looked to make settlement offers on both of her 
accounts with Shop Direct, it was explained that her offers were less than it would accept. 
And yet then it accepted settlement on one of the accounts. 
Ive listened to the recording of the call that she then made to pay the agreed amount. Ms M 
said that she had to make a choice between the two accounts, as she was unable to meet 
the total amount Shop Direct has said that it would accept. So I can see why Ms M may have 
then looked for further clarification about why that offer was acceptable, when her other offer 
was not. 
I appreciate that an agreement to accept a reduced payment for a debt is a matter for the 
business to decide. And Shop Direct didnt consider that Ms Ms offer for the Littlewoods 
account was high enough, and that is a decision its entitled to make. But I think the reasons 
why one offer was then accepted could have been more clearly explained. 
In the call, Shop Directs adviser refers to the repayment arrangement for the remaining 
account and says that this can be discussed at the time that ends. From this, I can 
understand why Ms M may have believed that she would be able to continue with that 
arrangement, when she completed her income and expenditure form and sent this to Shop 
Direct.However, Shop Direct then wouldnt agree to continue the arrangement because of the 
length of time it had been in place, and as it wasnt likely to result in Ms M being in a better 
or different position. Her payments were unlikely to reduce the debt in a significant way, or to 
prevent her account from defaulting. So I dont necessarily think it was unfair when Ms M 
had told it that her circumstances hadnt changed significantly, and it was unlikely that 
continuing the plan would help Ms M towards reducing her debt. 
After reviewing her account when addressing her complaint, Shop Direct has said it will 
backdate the default placed on Ms Ms account to April 2016. It said that if the correct 
process had been followed in March 2016, Ms M would not be able to clear the account in 
arrears within a reasonable time and so the account would have defaulted at that time. 
And I think this gives a reasonable resolution to Ms Ms complaint. Although I appreciate that 
she would like the default removed entirely, I think it would have been appropriate for Shop 
Direct to have looked to take this action in 2016 when she made it aware of her financial 
situation. If theres been an arrangement that a consumer may pay reduced amounts 
towards a debt then thatll be reflected in their credit report. But a repayment arrangement 
doesnt mean that the contractual repayments due under the original agreement have 
changed, or that the account wouldnt default because of this. 
I think that backdating the default is an appropriate way of recognising that this may have 
helped Ms M far earlier. This would mean that this default would remain on her credit file 
until April 2022. Although I can understand that Ms Ms parents will have wanted to help her 
at the time to repay the debt if they could have or were aware that she needed that help; it is 
difficult to say with any certainty that Ms M would have taken this action or would have been 
able to avoid the arrears on her account.
Shop Direct has agreed with the investigators recommendation that it should pay Ms M a 
further £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience that she was caused through the 
communication about her account. Overall, I think that this, along with the action of 
backdating the default to April 2016, represents a fair resolution to her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods should pay 
Ms M £250, and arrange to backdate the default on her account to April 2016, as it has 
already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021. 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman