DRN-3519751
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Revolut Ltd didnt reimburse her the money she lost to a scam.
Background
Mrs B has explained that in February 2022, she was researching ways to make additional 
money and saw what appeared to be a business advertising on a video sharing platform. 
The advert explained customers could buy access to its app, which then paid customers for 
completing tasks on social media, such as liking posts. Mrs B enquired further and was told 
she could make around £2,000 per month from the app. On this basis she agreed to 
purchase access to the app. She made two payments to two different payees, the first for 
£100, the second for £2,000.
A week after purchasing access to the app, Mrs B explained the app disappeared from her 
phone and she realised shed been the victim of a scam. She therefore contacted Revolut to 
raise a claim.
Revolut contacted the beneficiary bank to investigate further but unfortunately, no funds 
remained. Revolut considered it wasnt liable for Mrs Bs losses as it provided her with 
warnings when she made the payments.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mrs B brought the complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt consider that 
Revolut shouldve intervened before allowing the payments to be processed, based on the 
value of the payments being made. He also thought Revolut did all it reasonably could to 
recover Mrs Bs funds once it had been made aware of the scam.  
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key questions to consider here are whether Revolut should have recognised Mrs Bs 
payments as being suspicious and intervened - and whether it did enough once aware of the 
fraud to recover her funds.
Having considered whether Revolut could, or should, have done more to stop Mrs B making 
the payments she did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Revolut to take 
responsibility for the money Mrs B has lost. I understand this will be a very disappointing 
outcome for Mrs B, so Ill explain why.
I accept Mrs B has been the victim of a cruel scam  and its clear that this has caused Mrs 
B an immense amount of distress and worry. But that alone doesnt mean Mrs B must be 
reimbursed by Revolut. That all depends on whether Revolut did anything wrong  that is, 
could it have done any more to prevent the scam from taking place or intervened so that Mrs 
B would have realised what was happening and stopped before sending the money.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Although the 
money was not intended to go to a fraudster, Mrs B is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Revolut 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Revolut should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations, such as a 
customer making a larger payment then they would typically make to a new payee. These 
can be indicators that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Ive considered whether the payments made by Mrs B ought to have flagged with Revolut as 
suspicious  but I dont think they should. This was a newly opened account, so Revolut had 
no previous transactional history for Mrs B by which to compare her usual spending against. 
I dont think the value of the payments Mrs B made were such that Revolut shouldve had 
concerns and intervened on this basis alone. I therefore dont think Revolut shouldve taken 
further action before processing Mrs Bs payments.
Ive therefore gone onto consider whether Revolut did all it could to recover Mrs Bs funds, 
once it was made aware of the scam. Mrs B contacted Revolut to report the scam on 14 
February 2022 but didnt provide further requested information until 18 February 2022. Ive 
contacted the beneficiary bank who has confirmed that sadly all of Mrs Bs funds had been 
withdrawn by this time. Therefore I dont think there was anything Revolut could reasonably 
have done to recover Mrs Bs money.
I appreciate how disappointing this outcome will be for Mrs B. But in the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly say Revolut should have done more to prevent Mrs B losing this 
money. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Revolut to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Revolut Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman