DRN-1954525
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed and defaulted her account. She also 
complains that her overdraft facility was mis-sold because she didnt know how high the fees 
were.
What happened
Miss K had a higher education account with Barclays. In early 2018 this was converted into 
another kind of account which came with an overdraft facility. (This happened automatically 
due to the time that had elapsed since shed graduated.) Miss K used her overdraft, and so 
she began to incur fees. She complains that the fees were too high, were unfair, and that 
she was not told or not properly told about them (Barclays says it wrote to her about the fees 
when the account was converted). She says she fell into financial difficulty. As a result, 
Barclays gave her a nil arrangement under which no payments would have to be made to 
the account, and no more fees would be charged, while the arrangement lasted.
In June 2019 Miss K told Barclays that she was no longer in financial difficulty, and the nil 
arrangement was ended. Charges again began to be incurred, and in the same month 
Miss K exceeded her overdraft limit. By September she was £171 over the limit, and a new 
nil arrangement was started.
In February 2020, Barclays served Miss K a termination notice, telling her that her account 
was going to be closed in 28 days and demanding immediate and full repayment of the 
entire overdraft with effect from the date of the account closure. Miss K was anxious not to 
lose her account, so she called Barclays to see if there was a way to avoid this. There is a 
dispute about what she was told and whether it was clear. Miss K says she was just told to 
repay the difference between her balance and her overdraft limit, i.e. £171, before the 
account was closed, which she did. She was therefore surprised to find that in March her 
account was closed anyway, and a default was recorded on her credit file. Barclays says its 
call handler also told her that she would have to call the bank back once she had made the 
payment and cancel the nil arrangement (which would mean that overdraft fees would be 
charged again), and that both of these things would have to happen to avoid her account 
being closed.
Miss K complained to Barclays, and then to this Service. But our investigator did not uphold 
her complaint. He listened to the recording of the relevant phone call, and concluded that 
Barclays had told her, and told her clearly, that she would have to call back and cancel the 
nil arrangement, to avoid her account being closed.
Miss K asked for an ombudsmans decision. She added that when she had phoned the 
banks complaints department to complain about the overdraft fees, they had not warned her 
that her account was still about to close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
the overdraft fees
The overdraft fees are explained in the account terms and conditions. Miss K knew that she 
had an overdraft, and she knew that she was using it. The fees appeared on her bank 
statements. So I think Barclays informed her about the fees.
The effect of a Supreme Court judgement in 2009 about overdraft fees is that I cannot 
uphold a complaint that overdraft fees are unfair, provided that they have been charged in 
line with the account terms and conditions and the customer has been informed about them.
When Miss K fell into financial difficulty, Barclays suspended the fees as part of the nil 
arrangement. I think that was a positive and sympathetic response.
the account closure and default
I have listened to the relevant call recording (that is, the second person Miss K spoke to on 
17 February 2020). I think the call handler spoke to her patiently and clearly, and that he 
advised her that two things would have to happen to avoid the account being closed. These 
were the payment of £171, and the cancellation of the nil arrangement, which she would 
have to request by calling Barclays at the time of or after making the payment. He warned 
her that the second stage would result in fees being charged, so she would have to make 
sure that she would be able to afford that. Both steps would be necessary.
I recognise that Miss K might not have taken that all in at the time, because she had just 
endured a recent family bereavement. So I do not blame her for failing to take the second 
step. But that does not mean that it must be the banks fault instead. I think the phone call 
was conducted properly and professionally, and the advice given was accurate and clear.
The complaint handler Miss K spoke to on the day before her account was closed was not 
aware that the account was due to be closed; that information was not displayed on her 
computer screen, since that was being dealt with by a different department. Miss K was 
complaining about the fees, not about the termination letter. Its regrettable that Miss K 
believed that her account was going to remain open, when in fact it was about to close (and 
was closed the next day), but I think that in the February phone call the bank did enough to 
tell her what she had to do, and the March call or calls do not detract from that.
It follows that Barclays was entitled to close the account and to register a default.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman