DRN-3200207
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr S, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. T was initially helped in 
bringing this complaint by a representative but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of T. 
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Aviva. T claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
Aviva turned down the claim as it said it didnt cover national or global threats such as 
pandemics. They said that that the core business interruption section of the policy didnt 
provide cover as Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. And while the policy provides 
cover for a list of specified diseases  Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases covered. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, T brought its complaint to our service. It provided a detailed 
explanation of why it thought its claim should be covered by the extension which includes 
cover for specified diseases. Im not going to repeat all of Ts points here as theyre known to 
both parties, but some of the key points are:
The decision to close businesses such as T was made by a Governmental authority 
due to Covid-19 which is a notifiable disease.
There were cases of Covid-19 within one mile of Ts premises and its reasonable to 
conclude on the balance of probabilities that there was a case at Ts premises. 
Aviva has breached the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business 
and parts of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
Many of the diseases listed are similar to Covid-19 and the policy doesnt have an 
exclusion for new diseases. 
There is no exclusion for action taken in supressing the spread of disease.
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Ts claim.
T asked for an ombudsman to review its complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has made a number of detailed points. I dont intend to address them all and will instead 
focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ts business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ts claim.
The relevant part of the extension which includes cover for specified disease says:
We will provide cover in respect of interruption or interference with The Business 
during the Period of Insurance following
(1) a Specified Disease occurring at The Premises or within the distance in miles 
from the boundary of The Premises stated in The Schedule
 
The policy specifically defines Specified Disease as:
(1) Any of the following diseases contracted by any person Acute encephalitis, 
Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, Diptheria, Dysentery, 
Erysipeloid, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme 
Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal septicaemia. Mumps, 
Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Puerperal fever, Plague, Rabies, 
Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Whooping cough or 
Yellow fever.
(2) Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following Lassa virus, Junin virus, 
Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus, Marburg virus, 
Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley fever virus, 
Yellow fever virus or Dengue virus.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. There are similar policies on the market that provide 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ts policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, 
while the policy doesnt specifically exclude new diseases I think Avivas intention was to 
cover this specific list of diseases and I dont think it can fairly be read as covering all and 
any new diseases, or any diseases which might be similar. Therefore, even if someone at 
Ts business premises, or within five miles (the distance stated in the Schedule) of its 
boundary, had Covid-19, I dont think this extension provides cover for its claim.
T said Aviva breached a number of the FCA Principles as well as parts of ICOBS. Some of 
the points it refers to relate to the selling of the policy. If T is unhappy with how the policy 
was sold it would need to raise that separately. In relation to Avivas handling of the claim, I 
havent seen anything other than Ts comments to indicate that Aviva havent complied with 
the Principles or ICOBS. Ts comments havent persuaded me that Aviva havent acted fairly 
or reasonably, so Im not going to require them to do anything further. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome T was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Ts claim.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman