DRN-3881394
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) returned a cheque unpaid.
What happened
Mr A had a current account with Lloyds in the UK but lived in Ireland. He wrote a cheque 
payable to himself for £85,000. It was to be paid into his euro account in Ireland. It was 
presented for payment on 14 July 2021. It wasnt paid by Lloyds as the signature differed 
and Lloyds wanted to perform security cheques. It was later represented and paid on 20 July 
2021.
Mr A complained. He said he had tried to contact Lloyds beforehand to advise them he was 
writing a large cheque but couldnt get through. He said he waited for over an hour on the 
phone. His sister-in-law had gone into the UK branch where his account was held, but they 
didnt help either. He said Lloyds shouldve contacted him in any case when the cheque was 
presented for payment  if they had he couldve resolved matters. He had booked a 
euro/GBP rate and this had to be cancelled  at a loss to him of £2,000.
Lloyds said the cheque was rejected as they wanted to undertake fraud checks  they 
wanted to be sure it was written by Mr A. Theyd tried to contact Mr A. They didnt uphold Mr 
As complaint.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds acted reasonably. Lloyds 
didnt pay the cheque because the signature differed from the signature on the mandate they 
held, so they wanted to carry out a security check. Lloyds records showed they tried to 
contact Mr A on the number they held  which was the number Mr A advised to our service. 
She said that even if Mr A had managed to speak to Lloyds, its likely there would still have 
been security checks  because of the issues on the signature.
Mr A didnt agree. He said Lloyds didnt try to contact him as theyd said. He asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its an unfortunate fact that banking fraud is increasing, and all banks, including Lloyds, have 
checking systems in place to ensure that payments are genuine. They do this to protect both 
customers and themselves from fraud.
Lloyds decided not to pay the cheque because the signature differed from the signature on 
the bank mandate they held, and so they wanted to complete some additional security 
checks. They also told us that the transaction was an unusual one for Mr A to make  as it 
was for a high percentage of the balance. They say they tried to contact Mr A to verify the 
payment on 14 July 2021. On the other hand, Mr A says he tried to contact Lloyds ahead of 
the event; and they shouldve contacted him when the cheque was presented.
So, I considered these points.
Security checks: I can see that Mr A didnt use his UK bank account very often. There were 
only two small credits into the account in the first six months of 2021. And the balance was 
£87,988 credit when the cheque was presented for payment on 14 July 2021  so it was for 
a large percentage of the balance at that time. So, I can see why Lloyds wanted to ask more 
questions about it  which was a reasonable thing to do.
Lloyds told us they tried to call Mr A on 14 July 2021 but got the message the individual you 
need to speak to is currently in a meeting and no caller ID doesnt help your case. I can 
see they held the correct number for Mr A in their records  as it corresponded with the 
number Mr A gave to us. And they showed us the record of the call made to Mr A. They cant 
however provide us with a copy of the call to listen to  as it isnt held anymore. And so  
Lloyds did all they could be expected to in trying to contact Mr A.
Mr As attempts to contact Lloyds: Mr A argues that he tried to contact Lloyds ahead of 
writing the cheque. But he couldnt get through on the phone  he said he waited for over an 
hour. I dont doubt this was the case. But that doesnt mean I can uphold his complaint  as 
unfortunately the fact is that he didnt speak to Lloyds. But in any case, I dont think that even 
if he did speak to Lloyds it wouldve meant the cheque would have been paid without further 
checks. I say that because its reasonable to say that Lloyds could only make a decision on 
what to do with the cheque once it was presented for payment - and then, at that time, its 
likely they wouldve seen the need for security checks for the reasons Ive set out. So, I think 
it would still have been likely that the cheque wouldve been rejected, even if Mr A had 
spoken to them beforehand.
Mr A also said he tried to let the UK branch know about the cheque  by his sister-in-law 
visiting the branch. But having considered this I dont think that would have helped for the 
same reasons Ive outlined  and I dont think the branch wouldve acted on the instructions 
of his sister-in-law  as she wasnt a party to the account. And I dont think that wouldve 
stopped Lloyds wanting to ask Mr A about the cheque when it was presented for payment for 
the same reasons as Ive set out.
Therefore, having reviewed Mr As complaint, I think Lloyds acted reasonably and Im not 
asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman