DRN-3230999
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money is holding him
responsible for payments he disputes making from his account.
What happened
Mr W says that he lost his card in September 2020 and ordered a replacement which he 
didnt receive. He went on holiday at around this time and when he returned couldnt 
access his account online. He contacted Virgin Money to report this and discovered 
payments from his account that he didnt recognise. He says that he told Virgin Money that 
the phone number to access his account had been changed at a different bank too and it 
didnt do anything about this.
Virgin Money said it wouldnt be refunding any of the payments. The phone number used 
to allow access to his account and receive security codes had been changed on 9 
September 2020. The caller passed security and sounded like the genuine Mr W. Access 
to his account during this period had included authentication using his biometric 
information  his fingerprint. A different financial business had confirmed that payments he 
disputed had been received into an account in his name and there had been no fraud 
suspected. Virgin Money told him to contact it, but he hadnt done so. One disputed 
payment had been made to an existing beneficiary who Mr W had sent money to in July 
and August 2020. It said it considered he had consented to the disputed payments.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr W had 
been inconsistent about what he said about losing his card. He had first said he lost it on 
or before he went on holiday and ordered a new card through the app. But also, that his 
card (which he must then have had) was declined when he came back from holiday which 
caused him to contact Virgin Money. 
The caller of 9 September 2020 was able to answer specific questions about the account 
including about two credits received at the start of September 2020. A new device had 
been registered and this would require his customer number and well as other security 
information. And Mr W had said that he hadnt written any of this information down. There 
was no clear way in which a fraudster had obtained the card and the PIN. And a fraudster 
would typically have used it to access as much money as quickly as possible which wasnt 
the pattern here. A payment was made to a beneficiary Mr W recognised. And credits were 
paid in from other accounts and then paid out which didnt make sense. Mr W had been 
receiving regular payments but hadnt queried this earlier. Virgin Money said it had told   
Mr W to report fraud to any other financial businesses and given the amount at stake he 
was unclear why Mr W hadnt done so. Mr W had disputed making a call on 14 October 
2020 about access to his account and saying he didnt recognise a payment. It didnt make 
sense for a third-party fraudster to do so.
Mr W didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that having listened to 
call recordings of 9 September and 14 October 2020 that the caller was clearly not him. This 
was the first time he had been able to comment on these. He accepted he was a bit hazy 
about what happened at the time, but he hadnt been paying great attention seeing his 
banking arrangements as a mundane task and only taking notice when he realised Virgin 
Money had allowed his money to be paid away. He didnt believe anyone had asked him 
meaningful questions. He said how someone was able to access his account and the 
technical details of what happened are beyond him. But he didnt think Virgin Money had 
asked the caller for information that was difficult to obtain. He said that a fraudster doesnt 
have to act in a recognised manner. And he didnt think wed looked at things independently
from Virgin Money.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 15 November 2021. I said I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint but wanted to set out my reasoning as below. Ive reflected 
that Mr W says he didnt access his account with the app before October 2020 but did so 
online.
I said I needed to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering 
this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, 
its not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent 
authorised Mr W wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I would be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr W either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to 
use it?
I was satisfied from the information Virgin Money has provided that these payments were 
authenticated either by access to the mobile app using the security information on the 
account or by the use of the genuine card. And some of those payments required the PIN  
for example the cash withdrawals. There is a considerable amount of money at stake here 
with payments of over £3,500 transferred through the account using the app. And several 
hundred pounds of payments using the card including cash withdrawals. These disputed 
payments took place between 10 September and 5 October 2020.
The issue I needed to decide upon is whether Mr W consented to the payments which 
could have included allowing someone else to access his account. I explained I wouldnt be 
able to say exactly what happened and I was thinking about what is most likely. Id looked 
at the notes of the investigation Virgin Money made into what happened and could see 
reference to Mr W discussing this case at length with the fraud team when he reported 
what happened and having been into a branch. I appreciated that Mr W accepts that his 
recollection of events isnt that clear. Id considered the further dialogue hes had with our 
investigator.
I wanted to set out some specific analysis of the available information to help explain the 
basis on which I was making my findings.
the card history
I first summarised the relevant debit card history on Mr Ws account as follows:
- Card ending with (last two) numbers 77 - issued 2 September 2020 used 
from 9 September to 11 September 2020.
- Card ending with numbers 89  issued 15 September 2020  used from 23 
September until 5 October 2020 and for the disputed transactions.
- Card ending with numbers 84  issued 16 October 2020  used from 19 October 
2020 onwards.Each time a new PIN was sent out separately.
the pattern of credits and debits that are disputed
Mr W disputes transfers using mobile banking from his account starting from when a 
new device was registered on 9 September 2020. These stopped on 29 September 
2020. He also disputes the payments made using the card with number ending 89 
above.
Many of the transfers from his account are to an account at a different financial business. 
And he had made genuine transfers to that account using in August 2020. Notably there is 
also a payment to an existing genuine payee made using the new device on 27 September 
2020. And the disputed payments start at relatively small amounts and continue over the 
month. Mr W received credits during the period including from his family as he had before.
the phone calls
Id listened to a recording of a call Mr W had with this service. And Id compared this to 
recordings of calls with Virgin Money on 9 September and 14 October 2020. Id had no 
access to expert voice analysis, but I was satisfied that these voices are different ones to 
the real Mr W. I asked the investigator to put that to Virgin Money and it accepts that too.
I knew Mr W considers this significant evidence of his account being taken over. But I 
wanted to say something about the content of the calls to help me assess them.
Mr W says that the security questions asked in the call on 9 September 2020 were 
inadequate and this allowed an unknown third person to register a new mobile device to 
his account. But I noted that this person knew the details for card ending 77 and that expiry 
date. And also, the specifics of credits to his account on 28 August 2020 and 1 September 
2020. I noted that a paper statement had been issued by post to Mr Ws address dated 1 
September 2020 showing those payments.
In the call of 14 October 2020, the caller says he cant get access to the mobile app. He 
says several things which I thought odd. First that he doesnt recognise the phone number 
associated with the app. Second that he doesnt have card ending 89 and doesnt 
recognise the last use of that on 5 October 2020 for a cash withdrawal of £130. And third 
he says that he has never received the card because he had asked for a new card before 
he went on holiday and referred specifically to a request on 14 September 2020. The 
substance of this call led to Virgin Money referring the matter to its fraud department. I 
found the content and conclusion of this call to be highly unusual for one made by a 
fraudster. Thats especially as it accorded with what Mr W also said about the nature of 
fraud on his account.
the fraud investigation
There are a number of calls that Mr W did have with Virgin Money including after he went 
into a branch and then was put through both to the fraud team and to fraud operations. Id 
listened to that specific call and I didnt agree with his position that his case has never been 
considered directly by the fraud team. He also disputes being told to raise the matter with 
the other financial business holding an account for him and to which a significant proportion 
of money in dispute was transferred. And says that Virgin Money told him not to do this.I didnt find thats supported by the evidence. He discussed with Virgin Money that he was 
going to contact that business. And Virgin Money also contacted it to see if there were any 
concerns about the way the account had been operated. It was told not. And even if Mr W 
expected Virgin Money to do more he wasnt prevented from contacting that business 
further to find out what had happened to his money especially given the amount involved. 
In any event the primary issue I was looking at here is about whether the transfers as part 
of the disputed payments were authorised.
Mr Ws evidence and recollection
Mr W accepts he is hazy about some things given the time that has passed and that he is 
unclear about what happened. I understood that, including from some of his apparently 
inconsistent answers to our investigator and Id listened to what he told Virgin Money at the 
time. And this being the position I needed fairly to consider how much weight I could put on 
what he now says. I also bore in mind that if this was a complex fraud then he may never 
be able to explain it. With this in mind I set out how I assessed the key elements of what 
happened.
my assessment
As I said this is a complex set of circumstances. There are two broad scenarios. Either Mr W 
was the victim of a fraud and an unknown third party managed to access his account and 
effectively all his security information and bank card, and this led to him losing a significant 
amount of money. The alternative explanation and one that Virgin Money puts forward is 
that this was first party fraud and Mr W consented to the payments and so authorised what 
happened. And this could have included him allowing someone else to take over his 
account given the clear involvement of another person in the calls Ive referred to.
I said I needed to think all of the following most likely to accept Mr Ws position:
- An unknown third party was able to discover the details of the card ending 77 within 
days of it being sent to Mr W and him also using it for genuine payments. And that 
person also knew about specific credits to his account  that would seem to have 
meant that person had intercepted a bank statement too as he didnt by then have 
mobile access.
- That person also knew his customer number and so could set up access to 
mobile banking.
- That person didnt act quickly to take money from Mr W as the fraud continued 
through September 2020 and so increasingly risked detection. For reasons which 
dont make sense much of the money involved first went to another account of       
Mr Ws when a fraudster would have had free access to send money direct from his 
Virgin Money account. And that meant according to Mr W that the fraudster also had 
to have been able compromise his other account. There is no evidence to support 
that.
- For reasons which are unclear a payment to a genuine payee of Mr W was made using 
what he says was the fraudulently registered device in between disputed payments. 
There would be no benefit to a fraudster of doing that.
- The fraudster was also able to intercept the new card ending 89 and the PIN which 
were sent out separately and seemed to be when Mr W says he was on holiday 
visiting friends in this country. Mr W has said his house was burgled and a laptop 
taken but he hasnt provided evidence to support that. For the card then to be taken 
this must have been just after it had been issued as it was used first on 23 September 
2020.- Mr W didnt realise what was happening. Hed made regular use of his account in 
August 2020 and received and then spent money from family. His access to online 
banking seemed to cease on 9 September 2020 when he no longer could receive 
codes to his phone. And he had no card after it seems 14 September 2020 and didnt 
do anything to report this until mid-October 2020. It also seems that he wasnt using 
an account at a different financial business as he didnt see the transfers then. So, it is 
unclear how he was managing financially during this period.
- An unknown third person made a call to Virgin Money on 14 October 2020 and on 
Mr Ws account was a fraudster. But as I set out that person did nothing to allay 
any suspicion about fraud on the account. There was by then a low balance left on 
his account and it is unclear why a fraudster would make that call and make the 
specific comments I set out above.
I said these arent all findings I thought are most likely. And so, having balanced all the 
evidence I didnt consider that the activity on the account was made without Mr Ws consent 
and so authorisation. I thought its possible that he allowed a third party to have access to 
his account, but I didnt need to resolve that further than my analysis of the calls to reach my 
conclusions. I invited any more submissions or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money didnt make any further comments.
Mr W made comments which I summarise and then address below.
He said he never had access to the app until this was set up after hed complained. He 
accessed his account online and probably used the terms interchangeably. He said that any 
biometric data used then wouldnt have been his. And his own phone wasnt very good with 
fingerprint recognition. 
He said that he was sorry for the changes to exact dates and details. He said that he lost his 
wallet on the bus prior to going to see some friends and he reported items missing. Some 
replacements had arrived when he got back but others hadnt. He chased the ones that 
hadnt. The Virgin Money card hadnt been delivered when he got back. And he said I never 
received a replacement debit card from virgin and have not to this date. He said that it has 
subsequently come to light that my landlord allowed a person unknown to have access to 
my house for a three-day period while I was away again. He reported this to police and 
there was damage caused. He surmised that this had been happening on a regular basis as 
similar fraud had happened with his other accounts. He said he could provide the crime 
number if we wished to follow this up. 
Mr W maintained he never actually spoke to the fraud team and that a person was taking 
notes and said these would be passed on and there were long pauses in the conversation. 
He also said he was told on a number of occasions not to contact any other banks involved 
and that it would interfere with the investigation. Virgin Money never had a proper 
conversation about which payments he did and didnt authorise.
He said the phone calls I referred to above werent him and he doesnt know anyone with 
that accent and what was said was outside his control. He didnt see the relevance of 
payments into his account.Ive considered all the further comments he has made carefully. He hasnt provided anything 
further to support his testimony. And I think hes has a reasonable opportunity to do so 
through our process. I pointed out for example in my provisional decision that hed not 
shown evidence of a burglary. For reasons which arent clear he has only now explained that 
his property was completely trashed and the door made unusable when it seems he was 
away again. Its reasonably up to him to provide evidence for that especially given the stage 
in our process as I explained in our provisional decision and which is now coming to an end.
Mr W agrees he hasnt been totally consistent as I referred to above. I accepted he may not 
be able to recall things and Ive explained that as a result and especially without supporting 
evidence I would need to think about the weight I put on what he says and asserts. 
I dont think it makes any significant difference if all Mr W was using was online banking until 
October 2020 and not the app as he clarifies. He still refers to losing access to the codes 
sent to log in when the phone number was changed. It may be that the first time a fingerprint 
was set up was when the phone was registered on 9 September 2020 and that this was 
used for payments including the one to the payee he recognised. But I referred to the 
biometrics only when summarising Virgin Moneys response to the complaint and havent 
needed to rely on use or change of his biometric data to access the account in my analysis. 
Ive set out my assessment of the calls. Im thinking about what is most likely and havent 
changed my view about that. And Id already explained my assessment of the evidence 
about Mr Ws contact with Virgin Money. In any event I consider that through our process 
hes had a fair opportunity to present his position.
As I set out above my findings about what was most likely dont rely on any one aspect but 
on a series of things Id need to accept to uphold his complaint.
Im afraid Im still not persuaded that the most likely explanation is that his account was 
taken over, his debit cards intercepted, and all his security information compromised as he 
says for the reasons Ive already given. So, I wont be changing my findings and asking 
Virgin Money to do anything more. I appreciate the financial implications for Mr W and that 
he will be very disappointed by the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman