DRN-3608045
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, didnt 
refund her a payment she made for some health tablets using her debit card. 
What happened
Ms B bought five bottles of health tablets from a company (R) online using her Cashplus 
debit card. She paid £198.78 but says Rs website said she could buy five bottles for £39 
and thats the amount she wanted and expected to pay. She complained to R and asked 
them to refund the difference. But she didnt get a response. She also contacted Cashplus to 
ask them to cancel the payment while it was still pending. Cashplus said it couldnt cancel a 
transaction once it had been authorised but said Ms B could dispute the payment and try to 
recover it under the chargeback rules. It said Ms B would need to provide evidence to show 
she had expected to pay £39 for five bottles of tablets. Ms B provided some screenshots but 
Cashplus said the evidence it had seen was consistent with the payment of £198.78 she had 
made. 
Ms B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Cashplus needed to 
take any action. In the absence of any evidence to show that Ms B should have paid £39 for 
five bottles of tablets, she thought Cashplus had acted fairly in deciding not to pursue the 
chargeback any further.
As Ms B didnt agree with our investigator, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Let me explain 
why.
Ms B contacted Cashplus as soon as she realised shed been charged £198.78 rather than 
the £39 she expected. She wanted Cashplus to cancel the payment before the funds left her 
account. Cashplus explained why it couldnt do that and I think that was fair. Ms B had 
authorised R to take the funds at the time of purchase. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 she is presumed liable for that payment in the first instance. So, even 
though the funds hadnt left her account when she first approached Cashplus, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Cashplus to say it wasnt able to stop R from taking the payment if it 
chose to do so. What Cashplus could do was try to help her recover the funds through the 
chargeback process. 
Chargeback is a process provided by the relevant card scheme  in this case Mastercard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with the goods 
or services theyve paid for. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. The relevant scheme checks the nature of the 
problem against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be 
successful. If the bank, in this case Cashplus, feels as though the claim wont be successful, 
they dont have to raise a chargeback. 
In this instance, Cashplus didnt raise a chargeback claim. Was that fair? On balance, I think 
it was. Id expect Cashplus to try to put forward a claim if it has good reason to. But in this 
case, it decided there wasnt enough evidence to warrant that. Ms B provided screenshots of 
Rs website that talked about a special offer, special pricing and discounted prices only being 
available for a limited time. That would indicate the tablets were being sold at a reduced 
price. But the screenshots Ms B provided dont show any prices. The order confirmation 
Ms B received from R simply says that the order total was £198.78 for five bottles. It doesnt 
break that down to give a price per bottle and it doesnt give any indication that five bottles 
would cost £39. I have no reason to doubt Ms B but without any evidence to show she was 
buying five bottles for £39, I think it was fair for Cashplus to decide not to pursue a 
chargeback claim on this occasion.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Ms Bs experienced. I can see that she feels very 
strongly that shes been treated unfairly. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Cashplus to refund the money she paid. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman