DRN-3571187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the quality of repairs done following a claim on their Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) home insurance policy.
Both Mr and Mrs B are named policyholders on their RSA policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr B, Ill refer mainly to Mr B from here onward.
What happened
Mr B had an RSA home insurance policy. He made a claim on the policy in or around 
November 2015. RSA agreed to settle the claim and arranged for the flooring in Mr Bs home 
to be replaced. 
Mr B has been unhappy with these repairs for several years and complained to RSA about 
them. He says, in summary, that repairs to the flooring by RSAs contractors were 
inadequate and this has led to the floor dishing and bowing.
RSA said:
Mr B has provided no evidence about the damage to the floor.
Mr B chose the floor, which wasnt a like-for-like replacement. 
Any lowering in floor level is a consequence of this decision.
The replacement floor was laid correctly and to industry standards.
Mr B was unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said his builder confirmed 
the problems with the kitchen floor was due to the failure of the subfloor following RSAs 
contractors repairs. He wants RSA to pay the costs of making the subfloor level, replace the 
kitchen flooring, and pay any other related costs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Overall, he didnt 
think Mr B had provided enough evidence to show either that the floor had been badly fitted, 
or that this was RSAs fault.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the contact history between Mr B and RSA. This covers the 2015 claim and 
subsequent discussions. These records show that there was ongoing dispute about the 
claim that wasnt resolved until late 2016. Mr B then complained about the quality of the 
repairs in 2018. However, RSAs internal records suggest that Mr B didnt send any evidence 
to support his claim.
RSAs internal records also show that Mr B chose the flooring, against RSAs 
recommendation. Even so, Id still expect RSAs contractors to fit this correctly. 
Mr B says his floor needs to be replaced because of failures by the contractors. He sent us a 
quote from his builder dated December 2020 setting out the work that needed to be done: 
The old wood flooring in kitchen area needs to be removed and a sand cement screed used 
to level floor, then a skim screed using latex before we fit new wood flooring. He quoted 
£4,675 (including VAT) for this.
However, this is simply a quote for repairs, not a detailed report setting out the damage and 
offering an expert opinion on its cause. Its also the only information I have about the floor. 
Despite several requests from this service, Mr B hasnt provided any evidence  such as 
photos or an expert report  showing damage or that such damage was a result of poor work 
by RSAs contractor. 
Given the lack of evidence, Im unable to tell if RSA or its contractors have done anything 
wrong. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman