DRN-4248710
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt refund payments she said she hadnt 
made from her account.
What happened
Mrs G disputed six cash withdrawals and a card payment as part of this complaint. She says 
that she didnt make these payments.
Barclays said it wouldnt be making a refund. The cash withdrawals had been made when 
the chip on her card had been read and the correct PIN entered each time. There was no 
explanation of how these had been compromised. It had decided to close Mrs G accounts.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There were genuine 
payments before and after the disputed ones. Mrs G had her cards in her possession. And 
she said she hadnt told anyone her PINs. There was no explanation for how an unknown 
third party acting without her authority would be able to take her card and find out her PINs. 
There were no PIN errors and no attempt to take out all the money available. There was no 
clear reason why Barclays ought to have identified these payments as unusual or 
uncharacteristic. It would be down to the relevant authorities to obtain any third-party CCTV. 
Barclays was entitled to decide to close her accounts.
Mrs G didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She provided evidence she 
was at work on the morning of 23 January 2023. And she said she wouldnt have gone to the 
cash points involved especially as she isnt able to drive. She said that she always kept her 
card with her and hadnt disclosed the PIN. She hadnt taken money out from cash points 
like this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mrs G wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the cards and PINs used for 
these payments?
- Did Mrs G authorise the payments on the account which could have been by allowing 
someone else to use the cards?
Im satisfied that the payments in dispute here were authenticated. There were six cash point 
withdrawals. And these required the chip to be read and the correct PIN entered.
The issue is whether Mrs G consented to the payments. I take into account that the claims 
being considered here cover two separate time periods and accounts. The first was between 
23 and 27 January 2023. There were four cash withdrawals and one card payment disputed. 
Mrs G had her card before these payments and when she reported them. She has provided 
a time sheet she says shows she was at work at least during the payments on 23 January 
2023. The other cash machine withdrawals Im considering here related to a different current 
account, and card and took place on 17 March 2023. The records from Barclays show that 
the card here had been issued on 6 March 2023 and a PIN available from 4 March 2023. 
And that the card had been used before this for a genuine payment.
Mrs G says she had kept her cards safe and hadnt disclosed the card PINs to anyone. She 
was still in possession of the cards when she reported the fraud. Its highly unlikely that a 
fraudster would be able to take the card and replace it without her knowing and would go to 
the trouble of doing so. She hasnt identified anyone close to her that could have done this. 
Although on two days the maximum cash machine withdrawal amount was taken, on the 
others it wasnt. And there were significant funds available for other payments if a fraudster 
had her card and PIN.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
Having considered what Mrs G has said and all the evidence I dont think it most likely that 
these payments were made without her authority. This could have involved her allowing 
someone else to use her cards. In the circumstances I dont consider it unreasonable for 
Barclays to hold her liable for the disputed payments and to decide to give her notice of the 
closure of her accounts.
I can appreciate she will be very disappointed given what is at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman