DRN-1509315
The complaint
Miss W complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited mis-sold her an 
endowment policy for the repayment of her mortgage.
She is being represented in her complaint by a claims management company. 
What happened
Miss W took out her endowment policy at the same time her mortgage was arranged. This 
was done through an adviser working out of an estate agency. She sold the property the 
mortgage and endowment was taken out for in 1993, and surrendered the policy in 1996.
She complained to Legal and General about the sale of the policy in 2019. Because of the 
time that had passed it had very few records available and nothing to indicate it was 
responsible for the sale and so it didn't investigate the complaint. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint as there wasn't sufficient evidence that Legal 
and General was responsible. Miss W's representative asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman. It argues that Miss W's testimony ought to be taken into account as she is 
the only person left with first-hand knowledge of what happened. It also said that the majority 
of Legal and General sales were conducted by its own sales force or appointed 
representatives.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only uphold a complaint if I'm satisfied that a financial business had done something 
wrong. And in order to make an award I must be satisfied, on balance, that a business is 
responsible for what happened. It wouldn't be fair or reasonable of me to make an award 
against a business that didn't sell the policy in question. 
Miss W ceased to be a customer in relation to this matter in 1996. So I agree with the 
investigator that it isn't surprising there is very little information available from the time. I 
have therefore considered what evidence there is and what Miss W says about it. 
I accept that Legal and General did sell a lot of its products through its own workforce and 
appointed representatives. But a lot of sales were also generated through independent 
financial advisers (IFAs). I'm not aware of Legal and General having any of its sales force 
operating out of estate agencies.  
I have considered the single page of policy documentation provided by Miss W. I 
acknowledge this refers to 'Sales Office 035 Newcastle' across the top. But this of itself isn't 
evidence the policy was sold by one of its advisers.  Legal and General's sales and area 
offices dealt with both its own selling agents and IFAs; they were used as a point of contact 
and for administration purposes. So I don't find this evidence persuasive. I have also considered Miss W's testimony as that can be helpful in establishing what 
happened. But I don't find that persuasive either. In our questionnaire Miss W has said she 
was passed to a sales agent who she believed to be working for Legal and General. And she 
was asked why she believed that, in the questionnaire she completed for Legal and General 
- and she didn't know. Understandably, given the passage of time, Miss W isn't clear about 
whom she dealt with that day;  and she hasn't provided any reason as to why she believed 
they were acting for Legal and General. I can't rule out that she is basing that on it being the 
endowment provider. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I don't uphold this complaint as I'm not 
persuaded I can fairly find Legal and General is responsible for the sale of the policy. 
Invariably when complaints are made so long after the event there is very little information to 
go on. However, if Miss W does obtain further information in the future that sheds more light 
on that, I would expect Legal and General to fairly consider it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman