DRN-3802085
The complaint
Mr G complains about the verification process Monzo Bank Ltd asked him to complete in 
order to discuss a card dispute. 
What happened
Mr G had a current account with Monzo. In December 2021 Mr G raised a card dispute with 
Monzo in relation to a purchase hed made. While the issue was ongoing, Mr G switched his 
bank account to another business and his Monzo account was closed. That meant Mr G lost 
access to the Monzo banking app it generally uses to contact customers. 
On 31 March 2022 Monzo emailed Mr G and advised it had an update in relation to his 
dispute and asked him to respond with a selfie and a photo of his identification. 
Mr G went on to raise a complaint and asked Monzo to forward the refund to him without 
delay. Monzo sent Mr G a final response and said it was unable to discuss account specific 
information without successfully verifying his identity. And Monzo said this was a step it had 
to take following closure of his current account. Monzo said it was willing to provide more 
detail if Mr G responded with the required selfie and identification. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They didnt think Monzo had acted 
unfairly by asking Mr G to verify his identity to discuss his account and the dispute. The 
investigator also said Monzo had forwarded Mr Gs refund to his new bank. Mr G didnt 
agree with the investigator and said Monzo had acted outside of the General data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR). Mr G also said he hadnt received the refund into his new bank account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs view is that the request for a selfie and identification to correspond by 
email is unnecessary and disproportionate. Mr Gs also told us he thinks the request goes 
against GDPR obligations on Monzo. Ive looked at the link Mr Gs noted in the complaint 
form. The link takes the viewer to the Information Commissioners Offices guidance for 
businesses when responding to a Subject Access Request. But Im aware of guidance the 
ICO issues in terms of when its appropriate for businesses to request identification. 
As Mr G said in his response to the investigator, businesses shouldnt apply a blanket policy 
when dealing with customers. I think its reasonable to say Mr Gs case is somewhat unusual 
as the dispute was raised while his account was open. But by the time the dispute was 
resolved and a refund agreed, Mr Gs Monzo account was closed and his banking 
arrangements had been switched to a new business. Monzos pointed out it would normally 
correspond with a customer via its banking app without requiring further identification or 
action. As Mr G no longer had access to the app (because the account had been closed) it 
had to correspond via email. 
Monzos told us that in order to correspond via email in relation to a closed account it first 
had to complete a verification process. And that required Mr G to send a selfie and picture of 
his identification. I appreciate its Mr Gs view that this was unreasonable, but I havent been 
persuaded thats the case. In my view Monzo was seeking to discuss a reasonably long 
standing dispute in relation to an account that was closed. Im satisfied there were 
reasonable grounds to request further information from Mr G and havent been persuaded 
Monzo acted unfairly. 
Mr G told our investigator that he hasnt received the dispute refund in his new bank 
account. Monzos sent us systems information that shows it ultimately agreed to refund half 
the disputed transaction amount (£175) to Mr Gs account with his new provider. The 
information available shows the funds were transferred to Mr G on 21 March 2022. Theres 
nothing to show the funds were later returned to Monzo by Mr Gs new bank. But if Mr G 
cant find a credit from Monzo for £175 on or shortly after that date he can provide a copy of 
his statement to our investigator. They can then go back to Monzo to trace the funds. 
Monzos confirmed it was seeking to discuss the outcome of the dispute with Mr G when it 
asked him to provide the above information. Monzos also explained no further action is 
required from Mr G as the disputed funds were returned to him. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as Im satisfied Monzo dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman