DRN-3991988
The complaint
Mr R complains Creative Benefit Wealth Management Limited (Creative) misled him into 
paying for full advice about transferring his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension and 
gave him poor customer service. 
What happened
Mr R was introduced to Creative by a separate independent financial adviser. Mr R wanted 
to transfer his DB pension to a personal pension, mainly because he didnt think it provided 
enough death benefits for his children. Creative explained it would provide advice in two 
stages. The first was abridged advice, which would cost £750 plus VAT and result in two 
outcomes; either advice not to transfer or that more information was needed. If more 
information was needed, it would proceed to provide full advice, at a cost of £11,428.80 
(including the cost of the abridged advice and the introducers fee of £2,762).
In April 2021, Creative provided its abridged advice to Mr R. It said the information collected 
at this stage meant it was unclear if a transfer was suitable, and full advice would be needed 
to determine this. Mr R was concerned about the cost so, through the introducer, he asked 
about the likely outcome. The introducer said Creative had told it the outcome wasnt certain 
but advice to transfer was likely. Mr R agreed to proceed to full advice. 
Creative provided its full advice to Mr R in September 2021. It recommended he stay in his 
DB scheme, as it thought hed be better off and could still meet all his stated objectives, and 
could provide better death benefits more cheaply for his children by buying life assurance 
than by transferring his DB pension.
Mr R complained Creative couldve told him not to transfer in its abridged advice, especially 
since it knew about his medical investigations which meant life assurance wasnt currently 
an option for him. He thought Creative misled him into paying for full advice by saying it 
would likely advise him to transfer. That it took too long to provide its full advice and only did 
so days before his cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was due to expire. Hed pointed 
out some expenditure errors in its fact-find and full advice report, but Creative didnt take any 
action. Creative had promised that even if its full advice was not to transfer, it would sign 
paperwork so he could still transfer, but later changed its mind. And Creative wrongly asked 
him to confirm hed come to it directly rather than through the introducer. Mr R thought 
Creative was wrong to ask for its full fee and that a fee of £2,000 plus VAT was fairer 
instead.
Creative said it hadnt misled Mr R. The regulations meant it couldnt have done any further 
analysis in its abridged advice, including about life assurance. It had provided Mr R with a 
declaration to say it had given him advice, but it couldnt declare it had advised him to 
transfer since that wasnt the case. Creative agreed it took too long to provide its full advice 
and offered to reduce its fee by £700 in total as compensation for this. And the introducer 
had waived its fee. So, Mr R now owed a reduced fee of £6,062 plus VAT. 
Unhappy, Mr R came to our Service. Our Investigator thought Creative hadnt misled Mr R 
and said hed agreed to its full advice fee beforehand. That it had given him suitable advice 
in the circumstances. And correctly declared it had given Mr R advice, and told him how he 
could use the declaration and could extend the CETV deadline for two weeks at no cost. But 
Creative had taken too long and not kept Mr R updated, and should pay Mr R a further £150 
as fairer compensation for that. 
Mr R disagreed. He said the fee was largely reduced by the introducer waiving its fee, not by 
Creative. That Creative should have explored life assurance at the abridged advice stage 
given what it knew of his medical investigations. And its full advice was based on life 
assurance cover that was only a possibility and which was later declined anyway - and 
Creative couldnt know life assurance was cheaper than transferring. Mr R said Creative 
repeatedly said a transfer recommendation was likely, but suggested its change of mind was 
linked to Creative asking him to say hed come to it directly, and involving a pension transfer 
specialist in its full advice process. Mr R thought the additional £150 compensation our 
Investigator recommended wasnt enough of a penalty for Creative, and suggested it should 
also be penalised for taking too long to respond to his complaint. Mr R said this matter had 
caused him distress and a loss of faith in independent financial advisers. 
Our Investigator didnt change his mind, and explained it wasnt our role to punish 
businesses. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Creatives actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Creative provided Mr R with abridged advice; so in accordance with COBS 19.1A, Creatives 
advice could only result in two outcomes. Either it would recommend Mr R remained in his 
DB scheme or tell him that it needed more information to determine whether a transfer was 
in his best interests. And crucially, in providing abridged advice it was not permitted to carry out appropriate pension transfer analysis, which would include comparing the death benefits 
payable from the DB scheme with an alternative arrangement, such as life assurance cover. 
So Creatives role at the abridged advice stage was limited to considering Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives to determine whether he should remain in his DB scheme or 
whether it needed more information to make that decision  Creatives abridged advice 
report explained, My recommendation is based on information provided by you about your 
circumstances, objectives and priorities. And when making its recommendation, Creative 
had to be mindful that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 
19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
I know Mr R says Creative should have sought more information about life assurance cover 
at the abridged advice stage. The fact-find Creative carried out for Mr R prior to providing its 
abridged advice noted that while Mr R was in excellent health, hed also been referred to a 
specialist to see if he needed surgery for a hernia. And that due to his fathers illness and 
early death, Mr R was very conscious of his health and wanted to arrange his financial 
affairs as soon as possible. Im very sorry to hear of this. But as I say, Creative was not 
permitted to carry out appropriate pension transfer analysis as part of providing abridged 
advice, it was instead limited to considering Mr Rs circumstances and objectives at this 
stage. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creative not to have explored life assurance 
further at that point. 
Overall, I dont think Creative couldve reasonably advised Mr R to remain in his DB scheme 
at the abridged advice stage. Thats because Mr R had raised health concerns that may 
have meant life assurance wasnt a viable option for him. So, I think Creative needed to 
proceed with the full advice to determine whether the transfer was financially viable and 
whether it was worth giving up the guarantees associated with it in order to provide the extra 
death benefits Mr R thought he needed.
Turning to the full advice provided, its important to stress that Creatives role here wasnt 
simply to transact what Mr R wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr R and recommend 
what it believed was in his best interests. And its clear that it believed transferring this DB 
pension wasnt in his best interests. Based on the report and financial analysis Creative 
produced as part of its full advice process, and the starting assumption the FCA said 
Creative needed to make, Im satisfied Creatives advice not to transfer was suitable for 
Mr R overall. Because at the time, the CETV of Mr Rs DB scheme benefits was £238,080, 
and Creatives financial analysis said providing the same retirement income available under 
Mr Rs DB scheme through a personal pension would cost him £204,902.88 more. So 
transferring would have meant Mr R would have given up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income and he was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits as a result. 
And in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and 
outweigh this. 
Mr R questioned how Creatives full advice could conclude life assurance was cheaper than 
transferring, given medical investigations meant life assurance wasnt an option for him. But 
Creative needed to base its full advice on what could reasonably be known of Mr Rs 
circumstances at that time. And once Mr R had proceeded to full advice, Creative obtained 
life assurance quotes which showed whole of life cover of £238,080 could cost Mr R 
between £225.72 and £502.84 a month, before underwriting. Creative also asked one of the 
life assurance providers whether it would offer Mr R cover given his medical specialist 
referral. The provider didnt rule out offering Mr R cover - it instead said it wouldnt offer 
cover for the time being and needed to wait for the outcome of his specialist referral. I note 
Creative offered to provide Mr R with further advice about life assurance, free of charge, 
once the outcome of his specialist referral was known. I think that offer was reasonable in 
the circumstances.Generally speaking, death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most 
people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death 
benefits potentially on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to 
Mr R and he might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension because of this. But the priority here was to advise Mr R about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So, 
even though Mr R wanted to transfer his pension to obtain higher death benefits, I think it 
was reasonable for Creative to conclude that remaining in the scheme was in his best 
interests, particularly as it seemed he would be able to apply for life assurance once his 
medical investigations had concluded.
Furthermore, Creatives full advice report said Mr R could already pass on whatever 
remained of his other assets and personal pension funds on his death to any beneficiary of 
his choosing, and these would be larger because he would be using less of them by taking 
guaranteed income from his DB pension. Given all this, I think it was reasonable for Creative 
to conclude that buying life assurance - which had not been ruled out at that time - was a 
cheaper way of providing Mr Rs children with better death benefits than transferring his DB 
pension.
I know Mr R feels Creative misled him into paying for full advice by repeatedly saying a 
recommendation to transfer was likely, albeit not guaranteed. Mr R says this was discussed 
many times with Creative, however neither Mr R nor Creative have any record of these 
conversations, so I cant be sure what was discussed. Mr R says Creative was saying similar 
things to the introducer, and provided a copy of an email from just after Creative gave its 
abridged advice. In this email, the introducer says Creative had told it that though it wasnt 
certain, a recommendation to transfer was very likely. But as this has come from the 
introducer, I dont think I can fairly attribute those comments to Creative. And overall I think 
its clear Mr R understood that a recommendation to transfer was not a guaranteed outcome. 
So, taking everything into consideration, Ive not seen enough evidence to say Creative 
misled Mr R into proceeding to full advice. In any event, I think its clear that Mr R wanted to 
be able to transfer his DB pension. And taking full advice was the only way he could achieve 
this, even if the recommendation was to not transfer out of the scheme.
In addition, Mr R says Creative didnt sign paperwork that would let him transfer his DB 
pension even if it advised him not to transfer it. Ive not seen any evidence that Creative told 
Mr R it would sign a declaration to say it had given him positive advice to transfer. Instead, 
Creative signed a declaration to say it had provided Mr R with advice, which it was obliged to 
do under the relevant regulations, and it explained he could use this to proceed with a 
transfer with other firms. Creative wasnt obliged to treat Mr R as an insistent client and 
carry out the transfer anyway against its advice. So, I dont think Creative treated Mr R 
unfairly here.
Mr R is concerned Creative asked him to confirm he came to it directly and not through an 
introducer. Theres nothing in the evidence Ive been given to make me think this was for 
underhand or unfair reasons, as Mr R suggests, and I dont think it made any difference to 
the outcome of Creatives full advice or to the outcome of this complaint in any case. Mr R 
also says Creative didnt take any action when he pointed out some incorrect expenditure in 
its fact-find and full advice report. But Mr R doesnt seem to be suggesting that this made 
any difference to the outcome of the full advice he received, and Ive not seen anything in 
the evidence provided to me to suggest thats the case. 
However, Creative accepts it gave Mr R poor customer service by taking too long to provide 
its full advice report. From communication between Mr R and Creative, I see that Creative 
initially said it would provide its full advice by the end of July 2021. But it missed this date and later dates it set, before finally providing its full advice on 9 September 2021. So it 
caused an unnecessary delay of about six weeks. I know Mr R is concerned that Creative 
involved a pension transfer specialist without telling him. But from what Ive seen, this was 
expertise from within Creative and Ive not seen anything to make me think this caused 
Creative to change its full advice recommendation to Mr R. And it should be noted that it was 
necessary for a pension transfer specialist to be involved in providing the advice under the 
relevant regulations.
I understand Mr R feels that the increase in compensation should be larger than that 
suggested by our Investigator, in order to punish Creative for its errors and not responding to 
his complaint sooner. But our Service doesnt punish businesses. Instead, our Service 
impartially investigates individual complaints, and if we think a business has made errors, we 
tell the business what it should do to put the consumer back into the position they should 
have been in if not for that error. 
Mr R says Creative took two weeks longer than it should have to respond to his complaint, 
but Mr R has ultimately still been able to bring his complain to our Service. And as I say, 
Creative itself accepts there was an unnecessary six-week delay in providing its full advice 
report. I accept this caused Mr R frustration, uncertainty, and worry about his CETV expiring 
at a time when his personal experiences meant he wanted to arrange his financial affairs as 
soon as possible. And it caused him inconvenience by having to chase Creative several 
times. That said, while Creative did provide Mr R with the full advice report only a few days 
prior to the CETV expiry date, I dont think that caused Mr R any detriment. Because 
Creative explained how he could get the expiry date extended by two weeks without cost. 
And Creative had advised Mr R not to transfer and Ive not seen anything to make me think 
he went on to pay for a new CETV or to transfer his DB pension on an insistent client basis. 
Creative has itself already offered Mr R compensation in the form of a £700 reduction in the 
fee its asking him to pay. Our Investigator suggested a further £150 was fair here, and 
Creative hasnt disputed this. Therefore, taking everything into account, I think fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Creatives error caused Mr R is 
for Creative to deduct a further £150 from the fee its asking Mr R to pay, in addition to the 
total of £700 it has itself already chosen to deduct from that fee.
Putting things right
Creative should deduct a further £150 from the fee its asking Mr R to pay, in addition to the 
total of £700 it has itself already chosen to deduct from that fee. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding the complaint.
Creative Benefit Wealth Management Limited should deduct a further £150 from the fee its 
asking Mr R to pay, in addition to the total of £700 it has itself already chosen to deduct from 
that fee.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman