DRN-3502762
The complaint
Mr D complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr D was given a loan by AvantCredit in September 2016. He borrowed £2,700 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. Mr D repaid the loan, earlier than 
planned, in January 2018.
AvantCredit gathered some information from Mr D before it agreed the loan. It asked 
him for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed 
credit in the past. And it asked Mr D for a copy of his bank statement so it could verify 
some of the information hed provided.
Mr D was entering into a significant commitment with AvantCredit. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that 
AvantCredit wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mr Ds financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the 
checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that 
AvantCredits checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of AvantCredits checks to see 
whether it made a fair lending decision.
The credit check showed that Mr D had made extensive use of credit in the past. In 
the year before the loan he had regularly taken, and repaid, short term loans. It 
seems reasonable to conclude from his lending history that Mr D was using new 
credit to repay existing loans. That is not a sustainable situation and should have 
been of concern to AvantCredit.
 
And Mr Ds current outstanding credit might have caused some concerns to 
AvantCredit. He held a credit card that had remained at, or slightly above, its agreed 
limit for at least six months. He also had two outstanding short-term loans. And Mr D 
was regularly using an overdraft on his main bank account.
But even though Mr D appeared to be using other credit to repay his earlier 
borrowing, his credit file didnt show any evidence of missed payments. And the bank 
statement that Mr D had provided to the lender also didnt show any evidence of 
returned payments or other concerning information such as gambling transactions.
So I dont think it would have been unreasonable for AvantCredit to conclude that 
Mr D had become trapped in a lending cycle  needing to take further short-term 
loans to repay loans hed taken in the past. It is difficult to break out of that cycle 
without the use of other finance to restructure the nature of the debts  turning short 
term borrowing into a longer and more sustainable credit facility.
And that was what Mr D told AvantCredit that he wanted to use its loan to do  he 
said that he wanted to consolidate his other debts. By doing that it would be 
reasonable for AvantCredit to assume that the short-term lending cycle might be 
broken, and that Mr D would instead be able to repay its loan sustainably from his 
normal income over a longer period of time.
The amount that Mr D asked to borrow from AvantCredit wouldnt have cleared all of 
his debt. But it would have been sufficient to clear his largest outstanding loan, and 
his credit card account. So he would only have been left with a small monthly 
payment of £25 on what appears to be a short-term instalment loan, and a relatively 
modest overdraft on his bank account.
Given what Mr D had said about his income and expenditure, and supported by what 
AvantCredit could see on his bank statement, I think it would have been reasonable 
for the lender to conclude that taking the new loan, and using it to repay some of his 
other debt, would actually reduce Mr Ds monthly outgoings and leave him in a far 
more stable financial position. So I currently think it was reasonable for AvantCredit 
to conclude Mr D could afford his repayments on this loan in a sustainable manner. 
I dont currently think it was irresponsible for AvantCredit to give this loan to Mr D.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. AvantCredit has said that it agrees with my provisional findings. Mr D 
hasnt provided any additional comments, but he has provided copies of his bank statements 
covering the period of June to August 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said earlier, Mr D hasnt explained why he doesnt agree with my provisional findings. In 
my provisional decision I noted that AvantCredit had reviewed a copy of his bank statement 
before it agreed the loan. And although that only covered a subset of the longer period 
shown on the statements he has recently sent to us, I think the conclusions AvantCredit 
reached remain applicable. I dont think AvantCredit needed to ask Mr D for additional bank 
statements, but even if it had, I dont think it would have seen any information that gave rise 
to additional concerns.
So Im sorry to tell Mr D that the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision remain 
unchanged. Given what Mr D had said about his income and expenditure, and supported by 
what AvantCredit could see on his bank statement, I think it would have been reasonable for 
the lender to conclude that taking the new loan, and using it to repay some of his other debt, 
would actually reduce Mr Ds monthly outgoings and leave him in a far more stable financial 
position. So I think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to conclude Mr D could afford his repayments on this loan in a sustainable manner. I dont think it was irresponsible for 
AvantCredit to give this loan to Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against AvantCredit of UK, LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman