DRN-1805562
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy about how Nationwide Building Society have handled a 
chargeback request.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's agreed that Nationwide should've been clearer about the chargeback requirements when 
Mr A first spoke to them about the problems he was having with a car he purchased using 
his debit card. Nationwide has apologised for this and paid £75 to put things right. Mr A 
thinks the compensation offered by Nationwide should be higher. Having looked at what 
happened, I'm not persuaded that's the case.
When Mr A first spoke with Nationwide he was given the correct information. Nationwide 
said that in order for the chargeback to proceed he would need to return the car to the 
merchant or have it collected. Mr A said he didn't want to drive to the merchant as it's over 
three and a half hours away, and he said the car was faulty.
Because Mr A didn't want to return the car Nationwide went on to say he should gather 
information about the faults from a mechanic and send it to them. What he should've been 
told was that under the chargeback rules he had to return, or attempt to return, the car. 
Because of the wrong information Mr A spent some time gathering the information which he 
didn't need to do. 
It's important to explain that the rules for chargebacks are set by the card scheme and not by 
Nationwide. In this case that means that the car should be returned to the merchant, or 
attempts should be made to have the car returned. Mr A says that he couldn't return the car 
due to the faults. I understand why he wouldn't want to drive a faulty car, but Nationwide 
were following the rules set down by the card scheme, and they don't have any leeway in 
how the rules are applied.
I've no doubt Mr A was put to some inconvenience. He obtained the cost of the repair work 
which he emailed to Nationwide along with some photographs. Mr A provided the 
information quickly, so it didn't seem to take much time, and Nationwide gave the right 
information as soon as they realised the problem. Whilst annoying for Mr A, and taking a bit 
of time, I haven't seen any persuasive evidence to ask Nationwide to increase the payment 
already made.
When this kind of thing happens with faulty goods there's always going to be some 
inconvenience. Mr A says he'd like to be paid for the telephone calls he made to Nationwide. I've no doubt Mr A made several calls. However, it seems likely that because of the 
problems with the car he would've had to make most of those calls anyway. Even if he was 
given the correct information in the first telephone call it's most likely there would've been 
several more calls as a natural part of the process. Also, our investigator asked for proof of 
these call costs which wasn't provided. So I won't be asking Nationwide to make a payment 
for these calls.
Mr A says that the delays with Nationwide have weakened his case both officially and 
financially if he takes the seller of the car to court. It's not my place to comment on any 
possible legal action but Mr A is free to take legal advice if he wishes. 
Nationwide offered to keep the chargeback open, within the time limits, so Mr A could return 
the car if he wished. This was what I would expect them to do considering the incorrect 
information which was given. Though I note that when Nationwide explained there was no 
guarantee of success with the chargeback Mr A declined to proceed as he didn't want to 
take the risk.
Mr A has also raised concerns about how Nationwide dealt with his complaint. Mr A says he 
was told that if he came to our service he would get more compensation. I haven't seen any 
evidence of this. What I think most likely happened was that Nationwide explained the next 
step in the complaint process was for Mr A to come to our service if he wanted more 
compensation. Nationwide had issued their final response letter and paid the £75 which they 
thought was fair, so coming to our service was the next step. 
Looking at what happened I think the £75 already paid is fair and reasonable. The cause of 
the problem, and a lot of the trouble that's happened, is because of the faulty car which is 
not the responsibility of Nationwide.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman