The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way BUPA Insurance Limited (Bupa) has refused to cover 
physiotherapy treatment under her private medical insurance policy. Specifically, Mrs B is 
unhappy with the way Bupa reaches decisions about which claims to pay by making its own 
assessment, rather than basing it on the evidence from her treating professionals such as 
her surgeon who made the physiotherapy recommendation.
To resolve her complaint, Mrs B wants Bupa to authorise a further seven physiotherapy 
sessions.
What happened
Mrs B holds a Bupa By You private medical insurance policy, which was renewed in May 
2019. Mrs Bs policy includes Comprehensive and Full Cancer cover, along with Facility 
Access and Extended Choice benefits. It offers to cover the cost of eligible medical 
treatments, subject to specified terms, exclusions and an agreed policy excess.
In July 2019, Mrs B sadly suffered an accident that left her with a dislocated kneecap. She 
saw a consultant orthopaedic surgeon who noted she has onset osteoarthritis. He 
recommended that she have a steroid injection and undergo a series of physiotherapy 
sessions. She says that she is trying the postpone surgery for as long as she can, because 
of the specifics of the surgery that would be involved.
Mrs B made a claim to Bupa that month. It authorised claims for the steroid injection and ten 
sessions of physiotherapy for Mrs Bs dislocated kneecap, after Mrs Bs MRI scan showed 
degenerative changes due to osteoarthritis. The injection took place on 8 August 2019, and 
the physiotherapy continued thereafter.
In November 2019, Bupa stopped covering the physiotherapy. Mrs B says that because of 
this she got worse and had to be referred back to the surgeon. The surgeon sent Mrs B a 
letter noting he recommended she undergo another twelve sessions of physiotherapy, but 
despite this Bupa would only provide five.  
Later that month, Mrs B complained. She said Bupa had unreasonably refused to authorise 
ten sessions as recommended by her physiotherapist in October, instead only offering five. 
Then in November, it would only offer three instead of the further five that were proposed.
She therefore felt it had unreasonably refused seven sessions which she needed to manage 
her condition. Mrs B explained that her knee problem is degenerative but that she believed 
the issue with her dislocated kneecap is separate. She needs the sessions to manage her 
pain and prolong the need to undergo any surgery for the degenerative osteoarthritis.
In December 2019, Bupa rejected the complaint. It said physiotherapy was eligible through 
Mrs Bs policy when part of treatment of an acute condition. It wasnt eligible when used for 
DRN-1629984long periods or to control a chronic condition. It therefore wouldnt be able to authorise 
claims where physiotherapy is used for an indefinite period or with no anticipated end date.
Mrs B remained unhappy with Bupas decision, and referred her complaint to this service. 
An investigator from this service said she didnt think the complaint should succeed. She 
said she completely understood why Mrs Bs physiotherapist felt her treatment sessions 
were necessary in the circumstances. But she didnt think that Bupa had done anything 
wrong as it had acted in accordance with the policy terms.
The investigator said that was because Mrs Bs policy did not provide cover for chronic 
conditions. And in reviewing the continued requests for treatment, Bupa had authorised 
sessions for Mrs B when the matter was an acute problem, but it could not continue to do so 
indefinitely. So, she did not think it was fair to ask Bupa to fund further sessions.
Bupa didnt have any further comments to make.
Mrs B didnt make any further specific submissions but she felt the investigator had simply 
reiterated what was already said. She therefore wanted the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I know my decision will be a disappointment for Mrs B, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator. That means I wont be asking Bupa to do anything further.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Bs circumstances and that an accident caused her to undergo 
investigations and treatment for her knee injury, and of her later degenerative diagnosis.
I recognise that Mrs B is also unhappy that she feels Bupa ought to have consulted Mr G, 
the surgeon  this is understandably because he recommended the particular 
physiotherapist and proposed Mrs B undergo physiotherapy (weekly, for six months in total). 
However, the information contained in the physiotherapists request forms sent to Bupa also 
set out Mrs Bs diagnosis in detail and it covered the same information that was provided in 
Mr Gs letters of 30 October and 22 December 2019.
In the first instance, Bupa provided funding for her to undergo the steroid injection and her 
first set of ten physiotherapy sessions. However, it says that it did this on the basis that Mrs 
B has an acute flare up of a chronic condition. So, though it did provide a few further 
approved sessions in response to the two further physiotherapy requests on 14 October and 
9 November 2019, Bupa asserts that it did so on a discretionary basis and it had no 
obligation to do so.
So, Ive looked at the medical evidence from both Mrs Bs physiotherapist and the consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon alongside the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy.
Mrs Bs policy confirms at section B1.2 that Bupa will pay for Provider charges for Out-
patient Treatment which is related to and is an integral part of [Mrs Bs] Out-patient 
Treatment. Mrs B is correct that the physiotherapist is a Recognised Practitioner by Bupa, 
and it will pay for approved treatment with that physiotherapist.
However, section B of the policy also contains reference to a policy exclusion where it notes Excluded Treatment - See General Exclusion GE5 Chronic Conditions and Chronic Mental 
Health Conditions.
Furthermore, the first section of the policy (Section A - Eligible treatment, benefits and 
limitations) also explains that Bupa will not (aside from acute flare-ups) pay claims for 
chronic conditions. It says:
 
While we do not pay for Treatment of Chronic Conditions, we will pay for Eligible 
Treatment for a flare-up of acute symptoms of a Chronic Condition (except a chronic 
mental health condition), if the Treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete 
recovery rather than prolonged Treatment.
The GE5 Chronic Conditions exclusion goes on further to explain:
 
          Excluded Treatment
Treatment of Chronic Conditions
Where it is not clear that a condition is a Chronic Condition and we have paid for its 
Treatment, that does not mean that we will continue paying when we have more 
information which, in our reasonable view, confirms that it is a Chronic Condition.
You can ask us if a condition is covered.
And Chronic Condition (excluding cancer) is defined in the glossary as:
a disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
An acute condition is contrastingly defined as a disease, illness or injury that is likely to 
respond quickly to Treatment which aims to return you to the state of health you were in 
immediately before suffering the disease, illness or injury, or which leads to your full 
recovery. 
I realise Mrs B says that physiotherapy should enable her to return in some capacity to 
activities she undertook previously such as daily walking and dance classes. I understand 
that and do not doubt it to be the case, but I do agree with Bupa that the medical evidence 
from the physio (and from Mr G) shows that Mrs Gs condition is chronic, not acute.
Mr G says the MRI scan provided to Mrs B in August 2019 shows she suffers from knee 
patellofemoral joint osteoarthritis with areas of exposed bone. He explained that she should 
be able to avoid surgery by gaining strength to manage the condition by undertaking 
physiotherapy and pilates classes.The physiotherapist gives Mrs Bs diagnosis as significant degenerative changes, 
specifically noting how after the MRI he notes Mrs B sadly has severe lateral patellofemoral 
arthrosis with bone-on-bone articulation and subchondral bone remodelling and lateral 
tibiofemoral cartilage [which] demonstrates diffuse high-grade chondral thinning on the 
posterocentral aspect of the lateral plateau. Mrs B is also noted as suffering from types of 
inflammation and swelling on her knee.
I do not think Bupa acted unreasonably when presented with the evidence from the 
physiotherapist. It is worth noting that the physiotherapy request form expressly notes how:
We initially pre-authorise five sessions of physiotherapy. However well consider 
funding more where it is clinically necessary and covered by the customers health 
insurance policy.
By the time he requested further sessions, the physiotherapist had set out that Mrs B has a 
condition which meets the definition of chronic under the policy terms. Osteoarthritis 
(arthrosis) sadly isnt curable and is a persistent and/or recurrent condition. And as Ive set 
out above, chronic conditions are not covered by Mrs Bs policy.
Whilst Mrs B is at a stage whereby surgery can be avoided, it does not alter that 
physiotherapy was recommended with a view to her strengthening her knee in order to 
manage the condition. Mr G confirmed this in his later letter of 22 December 2019 setting out 
how the purpose of physiotherapy was that she should continue to normalise her strength 
deficits and improve her patellofemoral joint biomechanics.
It follows that I do not find Bupa to have been unreasonable when it would not agree to fund 
the two further physiotherapist requests of October and November 2019 in full. It met the 
requirement to address the flare up of Mrs Bs condition, and it did allow for eighteen 
sessions in total. But, the policy wording is clear that such treatment is only funded with a 
view to a policyholder making a complete recovery, and unfortunately not where the 
policyholder has a chronic condition.
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs B, I do not uphold her complaint and for the reasons given, I 
cannot order BUPA Insurance Limited to fund a further seven physiotherapy sessions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman