DRN-4142911
The complaint
Mr G complains about his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), declining a claim for the 
theft of his vehicle under his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr G advertised his vehicle for sale through trade press and social media. A 
man contacted him to express interest in the vehicle and arranged to visit Mr G at home to 
view it. Mr G showed the man around the vehicle and started it, so the man could look under 
the bonnet. Mr G stepped away from the vehicle to change his footwear in his porch. But the 
man drove off in the vehicle. 
Mr G immediately contacted the police to report the theft. He also contacted Aviva to tell 
them about the theft and lodge a claim. Aviva contacted him the following day to obtain 
some further information and said theyd decide on the claim within 14 working days. After 
some difficulty contacting Aviva after the 14 days had elapsed, Mr G received an email from 
Aviva saying they wouldnt accept the claim. They said Mr G left the vehicle to go back into 
his property to check on his children and get some shoes. They said Mr G had left the 
vehicle with the keys inside and the engine running and referred to a policy exclusion for loss 
of a vehicle being left unattended with the engine running. 
However, Aviva acknowledged the time theyd taken to reach their decision and offered Mr G 
£200 compensation.
Unhappy at the decision to decline his claim, Mr G complained to Aviva. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response, Aviva noted the circumstances of the theft and 
referred to the exclusion in the policy terms and conditions. They also referred to similar 
wording in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). Aviva also confirmed their 
offer of £200 compensation.
Mr G then complained to this service. On the incident, he hadnt entered his property and at 
no time was the man out of his line of sight (nor given him permission to enter the vehicle). 
And the incident had only taken seconds. Nor had he gone back into his house to check on 
his children. As such, he didnt believe hed been negligent in his actions or left the vehicle 
unattended. He said hed lost the value of the car (some £27,500) and had to buy a new car 
(using funds set aside for other purposes). The theft had also had a significant emotional 
impact on him and his family. He wanted Aviva to accept his claim and pay the value of his 
vehicle (and the £3,324 hed had to pay for a replacement vehicle (and to insure it). He also 
wanted the previous six months insurance for his old vehicle returned to him. He also said 
hed be willing to accept Avivas offer of £200 compensation for their lack of communication.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva had correctly applied the 
exclusion in the circumstances of the case. It was unfortunate Mr G left the keys in the 
vehicle with a person he thought wanted to purchase his vehicle, and he wasnt in a position 
to deter or stop the theft. But the exclusion was clear, so Aviva had acted reasonably in 
declining Mr Gs claim. The investigator thought Avivas offer of compensation for the time 
taken to decline the claim was reasonable.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said he hadnt stated the keys werent in the vehicle when it was stolen, and 
he never left the vehicle unattended. His vehicle was also a performance model, so needed 
time [for the engine] to reach operating temperature (Mr G wanted to show the vehicle at its 
best). He also said the man came with the intention of stealing the vehicle, so it wouldnt 
have mattered whether the keys were left in the vehicle or not (he could have used physical 
force to steal the vehicle). Mr G also provided an update from the police, who said they were 
investigating him for several offences. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say I appreciate what Mr G has told us about the impact the theft of his 
vehicle has had on him and his family. Having a vehicle stolen is inherently distressing and 
stressful, more so in the circumstances Mr G has described. While I understand the man has 
subsequently been caught, I recognise this wont change the impact the theft has had on Mr 
G and his family. But my role here is to decide whether Aviva acted fairly towards Mr G. 
The key issue here is whether Aviva acted fairly in declining Mr Gs claim for the theft of his 
vehicle. Mr G says he didnt step into his property to check on his children and that the porch 
was close to the vehicle and the man was within his line of sight. Aviva say Mr G left the 
vehicle unattended with the keys inside and the engine running. So, the claim wouldnt be 
covered due to the policy exclusion for loss where a vehicle is left unattended (with the keys 
inside and the engine running).
As Aviva have applied a policy exclusion, Ive first considered the relevant wording referred 
to by Aviva. They refer to policy wording that says [Aviva] wont pay for:
Loss or damage arising from theft while:
Your cars ignition keys (including any key, device or code used to secure, gain 
access to, or to enable your car to be driven) have been left in or on your car
Your car has been left unattended with the engine running.
The same wording also appears under the What is not insured? heading in the IPID. 
I think this wording is clear. Looking at the circumstances of the theft, as described by Mr G, 
while he disputes Avivas view he went back into the property to check on his children, in his 
complaint to this service he says he went into the porch (at the front of the house) to change 
his footwear. And he says he started the engine to enable the man to see the engine 
running. I understand why he would do this (to demonstrate to a potential purchaser the 
running of the engine) and that the performance nature of his vehicle meant it would take 
longer to reach operating temperature. But it does mean the vehicles engine was running, 
with the keys left inside (to start the engine) and  the point about the performance nature of 
the vehicle  left running longer than would a non-performance model.
Mr G says the porch was only a few metres from the vehicle, and the man was in his eye line 
the whole time. And he never left the vehicle unattended. Looking at the photographs 
provided by Mr G, I accept its the case the vehicle was only a few metres from the porch. 
However, despite the short distance between the vehicle and the porch, the man was able to get into the vehicle and drive away. While Mr G didnt give permission for the man to get into 
the vehicle, I dont think this is relevant in this case, where the man stole the vehicle. And 
while Mr G says the vehicle wasnt left unattended, his returning to the porch provided the 
opportunity for the man to get into the [unlocked] vehicle and drive away (as the keys were 
inside and the engine running). So, Ive concluded these circumstances would reasonably be 
considered to mean the vehicle was unattended. 
Ive also thought about Mr Gs point that the man came with the intention of stealing the 
vehicle, so it wouldnt have mattered whether the keys were left in the vehicle or not (he 
could have used physical force to steal the vehicle). And the police say they were 
investigating him for several offences. I dont doubt this is likely to be the case. But it doesnt 
change the fact the vehicle was left unattended, with the engine running and keys in the 
vehicle. I have to consider the circumstances of the case as they happened  not what might 
otherwise have happened.
Similarly, Ive looked at the other decisions of this service in cases of vehicle theft, including 
ones where the vehicle was considered by the insurer to have been left unattended (and/or 
with the keys inside, or where deception was involved). But we consider each case on the 
specific circumstances involved. And as Ive set out above, I think Aviva acted reasonably in 
applying the exclusion to decline the claim.
Ive also noted what Mr G told us about his efforts to follow the stolen vehicle and making the 
police aware immediately, as well as the difficulty the man would have had to manoeuvre the 
vehicle out of the driveway and make off with it. But this doesnt change the fact the vehicle 
was left unattended with the engine running and the keys inside, enabling the man to steal it.
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in line 
with the policy exclusion and terms and conditions when they declined Mr Gs claim. I 
recognise this will be disappointing to Mr G, and I dont doubt the impact the theft has had on 
him and his family. But I cant conclude Aviva have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of the case.
On the issue of the £200 compensation awarded by Aviva for the time they took to reach a 
decision, Mr G says he would be content with the sum (for the lack of communication). 
Looking at the circumstances of the case, I agree the sum is fair and reasonable. So, I would 
expect Aviva to pay the compensation to Mr G (if they havent already paid it).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman