DRN-2243444
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
allowed a fraudster to access his account and change his details and didnt correct this.
What happened
Mr C had an inactive credit card account with Bank of Ireland. He complains that a third-
party fraudster contacted Bank of Ireland in April 2018 to reactivate it. And that person 
changed his address details. The fraud was discovered, and no use was made of the 
account, but the related address remained that given by the fraudster. And Mr C says this 
affected his ability to make a mortgage application in 2019 causing him financial loss.
Bank of Ireland initially said it hadnt made a mistake when it issued a first final response in 
July 2019 and that Mr C would need to change the address. It confirmed to Mr C that there 
was still a live account. It offered him compensation and increased this from £100 to £175 as 
it said that the address change had been made in error. It didnt accept that it should pay for 
the financial losses of nearly £6,000 that Mr C claimed. And it said it had since listened to a 
telephone call with Mr C on 20 April 2018 when a member of its card security staff said that 
Mr C would need to contact customer services to change the address. As a result, it didnt 
now accept that a mistake had been made but said that it would still pay the compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Bank of Ireland do more than it had offered to. It was 
accepted that fraud on the account had been attempted. The person who tried this had a 
significant amount of information about Mr C and the card account. After the account had 
been reactivated and the address changed, Bank of Ireland had decided to make a further 
security check before issuing a new card. And it had promptly contacted Mr C about this. 
Mr Cs financial advisor had provided the estimate of his loss here. In a summary the advisor 
confirmed that a re-mortgage application wouldnt be made until all the information on Mr Cs 
credit report was correct. The error had been found in May 2019 and not corrected until 
October 2019. So, the advisor said Mr C had lost out on the ability to reduce his mortgage 
payments through both a lower interest rate and a reduction in capital balance by realising 
investment policies. Hed also have saved money by stopping monthly payments on those 
policies too. Over the four months this missed saving was nearly £6,000. 
Our investigator said that Mr C hadnt actually made an application so it wasnt known if that 
would have been successful. Mr Cs attention had also been drawn to his need to change 
the address back in April 2018. Our investigator thought that the card security team could 
perhaps have done more to follow this up and thats why the payment for inconvenience 
remained reasonable. But Mr C did know that the address had been changed and Bank of 
Ireland couldnt be responsible for the actions of a fraudster. Mr C could refer his concerns 
about data security to the Information Commissioners Office if he wanted to.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that his credit report had 
been affected by what happened and he had suffered a financial loss by not being able to re-
mortgage sooner. He said that the proper course of action by any broker would be to obtain 
a credit report before application. His report was inaccurate, and an application couldnt be 
made until it had been corrected. He should be put back into the position he ought to have 
been in and compensated for the loss. His advisor had said that he would have been 
otherwise able to have the re-mortgage at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that a fraudster was able to impersonate Mr C and to make changes to his 
credit card account at Bank of Ireland. The actions of the fraudster have clearly caused 
distress and inconvenience to Mr C. Here I need to consider what Bank of Ireland did and 
whether it should be held responsible for a financial loss to Mr C.
As our investigator has set out the fraudster had obtained information about Mr C and his 
account. That person was able to impersonate him on phone calls. On 9 April 2018 he asked 
that the account be reinstated. On 19 April 2018 the address was changed. And on 20 April 
2018 a request for a new card and PIN was made. Ive seen no evidence that the fraudster 
wasnt able to answer all the security questions asked and so I dont think Bank of Ireland 
made a mistake with its process. But the number of changes to the account raised concerns 
and it contacted Mr C on 20 April 2018.
There were two calls with him that evening and Ive listened to recordings of both. In the first 
he was wrongly told that his address hadnt been changed. But the member of staff called 
back within 15 minutes to say that it had been changed and told Mr C twice that he would 
need to contact customer services to change this. Mr C confirmed that he wanted to keep 
the account. It was blocked pending his contact about this and no card could be issued.
There is no record of Mr C or of Bank of Ireland following this up. There was no direct use of 
the account or fraudulent payments. The account remained opened and information about it 
was reported to credit reference agencies. 
This came to Mr Cs attention in May 2019 when he came to re-mortgage. He initially had 
complained he didnt have an account at all. But that wasnt the position and he was told in 
July 2019 that he would need to contact customer services to change the address. 
Ive seen clear evidence from Bank of Ireland that its card security team wasnt able to 
change the address in April 2018. The conversation with Mr C was late on a Friday evening 
and the customer services team wasnt available until the following Monday. Mr C didnt 
follow this up, possibly as he decided he didnt want the account any further and the fraud 
had been averted. I cant determine what processes Bank of Ireland should put in place in 
these circumstances, but it clearly did know that the address wasnt correct.
I dont think that either Mr C or Bank of Ireland then reasonably foresaw the consequences 
of this. But I do think that Mr C had ample opportunity to mitigate the impact. On one view 
the inconvenience of him having to call to do so was down to the actions of the fraudster. But 
it was also as a consequence of the Bank of Ireland process for him. And so, I do think that 
the compensation as offered - and now on the basis of a gesture of goodwill - is reasonable.
It seems from what Mr Cs advisor says that a sensible approach to the application was 
followed. But that also means I cant know exactly what would have otherwise happened and 
fairly consider potential loss. The key issue is whether Bank of Ireland should be reasonably 
responsible for any consequences of what happened. I dont find it made a mistake and Im 
afraid it explained its position clearly to Mr C. So, I dont have a basis to find it responsible for any financial loss. And so, for these reasons I wont be making any related award and so 
looking to verify the specific figures for loss provided.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this and if he doesnt accept my decision he remains 
free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits. And as our investigator says 
he can also if he wants, pursue the matter about any data protection issues and breach 
further with the Information Commissioners Office. 
My final decision
Bank of Ireland has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. My decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc  trading as Post Office 
Financial Services should pay Mr C £175.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman