DRN-2570320
Complaint
Mrs G has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) unfairly arranged 
unaffordable guarantor loans for her. She says any checks would have shown that shed 
already defaulted on numerous other credit commitments, was making payments to a debt 
management company and that she was in arrears on her mortgage. 
  
Background
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mrs G 
being provided with a first guarantor loan in September 2014. The loan was for £5,000.00. 
Mrs G settled this loan early with some of the proceeds from a second loan for £6,000.00 
which Match the Cash arranged in January 2015. 
Match the Cash arranged a third loan for £7,500.00 in August 2015 and some of the 
proceeds from this settled the second loan. Finally, Match the Cash provided a fourth loan in 
March 2017, which was again for £7,500, and some of the proceeds from this loan were 
used to pay loan three. All of these loans had 60-month terms.
Mrs Gs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Match the Cash 
ought to have seen that Mrs G wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any of these loans at 
the time it arranged them. So he upheld the complaint. 
Match the Cash disagreed with our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Gs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are three overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Gs complaint. These three 
questions are:
These three overarching questions are:
Did Match the Cash complete fair and reasonable and/or proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs G would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P 
agreements in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs G wouldve been able to 
do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Match the Cash ought reasonably to have realised Mrs Gs 
indebtedness was being increased in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful and so it shouldnt have arranged further loans?
Did Match the Cash act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Match the Cash didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs G 
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Match the Cash complete fair and reasonable and/or proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mrs G would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a 
sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Match the Cash brought 
about these P2P agreements with Mrs G required it to carry out a fair and reasonable and/or 
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her loan in a sustainable 
manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Match the Cash had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs G. In 
practice this meant that Match the Cash had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mrs G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Match the Cash to simply think about the likelihood of 
Mrs G making payments, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs G. The 
existence of a guarantor, who was also able to make payments, did not alter, lessen or dilute 
this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Match the Cashs checks fair and reasonable and/or proportionate?
Match the Cash has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with   
Mrs G before arranging all of these loans. It also carried out credit checks to work out what     
Mrs Gs existing credit commitments were as well requesting and receiving bank statements 
from her too. Having seen copies of the documentation, Im satisfied that Match the Cash did 
receive this information too.
So bearing in mind Match the Cash obtained a significant amount of information on Mrs Gs
circumstances, Im satisfied that it did carry out fair and reasonable and/or proportionate 
checks  at least in terms of the information requested  before providing these loans to   
Mrs G.
Did Match the Cash make fair lending decisions?
It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a fair and reasonable and/or 
proportionate amount of information, it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards that consumer if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation 
of the information it obtained.
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Match the Cash says its assessment of 
the information obtained led it to conclude that Mrs Gs loan was affordable for her as shed 
be able to sustainably make her repayments.
Ive carefully considered what Match the Cash has said and when doing so Ive also
scrutinised the supporting information it has provided. Having done so, I have a number of
observations.
Loan 1
Having reviewed the assessment for loan 1, I can see Mrs G confirmed that she had a 
monthly income of around £2,797.00 (made up of £1,965.00 in salary, £750 in self-employed 
income and £82 in child benefit) and existing commitments of £2,227.00, which included 
£300 for rent food and housekeeping costs. Match the Cashs own assessment shows that 
Mrs G would be left with £328.52 after all the declared commitments and the payments to 
this loan were met. 
Match the Cashs credit check also showed that Mrs G had a mortgage, which was in 
arrears, and two secured loans, one which of which was also in arrears and in an 
arrangement to pay. Match the Cash says that Mrs G explained that the mortgage arrears 
were due to her husband having been off sick and he was now returning to work. The credit 
check also showed Mrs G had another guarantor loan with a different provider, which had 
been recently topped up. Ive thought about what Match the Cash has said. But Im mindful that the expenditure didnt 
include any payments at all towards a number of defaulted accounts which appeared on the 
credit check Match the Cash carried out. Im also mindful that Mrs G said that the proceeds 
from this loan would clear mortgage arrears, which she already had an arrangement to pay 
when the purported reason for them existing in the first place (her husband being off-sick 
from work) was about to end.
Im struggling to see how Match the Cash concluded Mrs Gs explanation was plausible. It 
made no sense for Mrs G to take out a loan, on such disadvantageous terms, to repay 
arrears she already had an arrangement to repay. And given the existence of two secured 
loans, a number of defaults and an existing guarantor loan, I think there was also reason to 
question just how long her husband had been off work for  especially as the self-employed 
income recorded for Mrs G was supposedly coming from him (or at least his account). 
I think that her existing credit position suggested at longer term financial difficulties rather 
than a temporary change to her household income and finances. And I dont think that it was 
reasonable to lend to Mrs G in these circumstances. I say this because not only did Mrs G 
have the issues Ive already highlighted in her credit history but the statement Match the 
Cash obtained also showed that Mrs G had cheques returned. 
In my view, it was clear that Mrs G wasnt managing the debt she already had. So bearing all 
of this in mind, Im satisfied that the available information demonstrated that she wasnt in a 
position to take on anymore debt and so Match the Cashs decision to arrange loan 1 wasnt 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Match the Cash ought reasonably to have realised Mrs Gs indebtedness was being 
increased in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have 
arranged further loans?
To start with and for the sake of completeness, I think that it would be helpful for me to 
explain that there is an argument for saying that as loans 2, 3 and 4 consolidated funds from 
previous loans and Ive already found that loan 1 shouldnt have provided, it ought to follow 
that the complaint about loans 2, 3 and 4 should automatically be upheld. 
After all if matters had played out as they should have done, it wouldnt have been possible 
to consolidate further borrowing if loan 1 hadnt been provided in the first place. That said, I 
didnt think I need to make such a finding.  
I said this because in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan 
arranged for Mrs G by Match the Cash, I also think it is fair and reasonable to look at the 
overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during the course of Mrs Gs history with Match 
the Cash. 
Match the Cash arranged loan 2 a couple of months after loan 1. And bearing in mind the 
close proximity between the applications for loans 1 and 2  a mere four months  Mrs Gs 
financial position wasnt any better. Indeed, whats most concerning of all is that loan 2 (as 
well as loans 3 and 4) was provided even though Mrs Gs mortgage arrears hadnt been 
cleared and this was meant to be reason why loan 1 was being taken in the first place.
Bearing in mind the reasons why I found it was unfair for Match the Cash to have arranged 
loan 1, the mortgage arrears hadnt been cleared and the monthly payments for loan 2 were 
higher than those for loan 1, Im satisfied that Match the Cash also unfairly when bring about 
loan 2 for Mrs G.Loan 3 was arranged some seven months after loan 2. By this stage, Mrs Gs indebtedness 
to the other guarantor loan provider had increased which, in my view, further demonstrated 
her struggles to manage her existing indebtedness. And Ive already highlighted that arrears 
were still present on the mortgage and secured loan accounts that had been in arrears at the 
time of loan 1. 
So for much the same reasons as for loans 1 and 2, Im satisfied that Match the Case 
brought about this loan in circumstances where it ought to have seen that Mrs G would not 
have been able to make the loan repayment to this loan without borrowing further and/or 
suffering undue difficulty. 
Loan 4 was arranged almost 18 months after loan 3. By this point, Mrs G had managed to 
clear the arrears on her main mortgage. But her secured loan was still in arrears some two 
and a half years after loan 1 was taken to clear these arrears and her husband had 
supposedly returned to work, despite Match the Cash having arranged three loans to 
improve her financial situation.  
Mrs Gs indebtedness to her other guarantor loan provider had also increased. In fact she 
also had a third unsecured loan, increased card balances and a hire-purchase agreement for 
around £18,000.00. So Mrs G owed more than she did previously and I dont see how Match 
the Cash has reached the conclusion that arranging these loans improved her financial 
situation. In my view, Match the Cash arranged loan 4 at a time where it ought reasonably to 
have realised Mrs Gs position was worsening. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Match 
the Cashs lending decision which resulted in loan 4 being provided was also unfair.
In reaching my conclusions to this overarching question, Ive given some thought to what  
Match the Cash has said about Mrs Gs payments having been made on time and in full and 
her loans having been repaid. But I think Match the Cash is overlooking the fact that loans 1, 
2 and 3 were only settled with funds from the later loans it arranged. 
So I dont think Mrs Gs repayment record was anywhere near as strong as Match the Cash 
is suggesting. Its also worth noting the effect of Mrs Gs repayment record in light of what 
Match the Cash has said. At the time loan 4 was arranged, Mrs G still owed more than the 
amount she had been advanced at the respective times of loans 1 and 2, despite having 
made payments for nearly two and a half years. 
I accept that Mrs G will have received a small amount of additional funds at the time of loans 
2, 3 and 4. But this isnt the only reason why Mrs Gs debt to Match the Cash increased (or 
at least not reduced more quickly in this way) despite the payments she made. As Mrs Gs 
loans will have followed a typical amortisation schedule, in the early stages of the loan the 
vast majority of Mrs Gs monthly payments were going towards repaying the accrued 
interest. And as loans 1, 2 and 3 were settled within months of being provided (with the 
proceeds from new loans), the vast majority of her monthly payments would have repaid 
interest rather than reduced her balance.
In my view, Mrs Gs repayment record and the consequences of this, wasnt a 
demonstration of Mrs Gs improving financial position. Instead I think that it was another 
reason why Match the Cash ought reasonably to have realised Mrs Gs indebtedness was 
being increased in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt 
have arranged further loans.  
Did Match the Cash act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in some other way?Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Match the Cash acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in 
some other way.  
So I find that Match the Cash didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in some 
other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
one and two of this decision, I find that Match the Cash:
did complete fair and reasonable and/or proportionate checks on Mrs G to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay her loans; 
didnt make fair lending decision for loan 1 as the information gathered demonstrated 
that Mrs G was more likely than not unable to sustainably make the repayments for 
this loan;
ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that loans 2, 3 and 4 were unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful for Mrs G and so shouldnt have been arranged as they would 
more likely than not unfairly and excessively increased her overall indebtedness;
Match the Cash didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in some other 
way.
The above findings leave me concluding that Match the Cash unfairly and unreasonably 
brought about guarantor loans for Mrs G in September 2014, January 2015, August 2015 
and March 2017.
Did Mrs G lose out as a result of Match the Cash unfairly and unreasonably bringing about 
her guarantor loans?
I think that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Mrs Gs indebtedness as it led to 
her to being given expensive credit she couldnt afford to repay. These loans were expensive 
and the monthly payments, which also included interest and charges, took up a portion of 
Mrs Gs income at a time where she was already struggling to make ends meet. 
So I find that Mrs G did suffer adverse consequences and as a result lost out because     
Match the Cash unfairly arranged these loans.
  
Fair compensation  what Match the Cash needs to do to put things right for Mrs G
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Match the
Cash to put things right for Mrs G in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mrs G paid on loans 1 to 3;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 4 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £7,500.00 
originally lent. Match the Cash should treat any payments made should the new 
starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mrs G. If an outstanding balance remains on loan 4 after these adjustments, Match the Cash can use the compensation due for loans 1,2 and 3 to 
reduce and clear this balance.
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees, charges and overpayments 
from the date they were paid by Mrs G to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
If after all of the above adjustments have been made (including offsetting the compensation 
for loans 1,2 and 3) an outstanding balance remains on loan 4, Match the Cash should set 
up an affordable payment plan for Mrs G. Id also remind Match the Cash of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain 
after all adjustments have been made to the account, and its the case that Mrs G is 
experiencing financial difficulty.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. Match the Cash Limited 
should put things right for Mrs G in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman