DRN-4239524
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined her 
claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Admiral includes its agents and representatives in this 
decision letter.
What happened
Ms B said that her property suffered storm damage at the end of January 2022. She 
reported the damage to Admiral, being her insurers, in February 2022, however it declined 
her claim. Ms B didnt want Admirals contractors to carry out work, so in May 2022, Admiral 
gave Ms B advice on how to validate her claim. It said that it would need to see photographs 
of the damage, a professional report from Ms Bs contractors and a breakdown of costs 
before it would then appoint its agents to validate the claim.
Admiral said that it couldnt validate the claim as repairs had been completed and it didnt 
receive sufficient and clear evidence from Ms B to show how the loss occurred. Ms B then 
made a complaint about Admirals response, however it maintained its stance about the 
claim. Admiral explained that the terms and conditions of the policy stated that a customer 
shouldnt agree costs and repairs prior to the insurance company consenting to them.
Ms B then referred her complaint to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold her 
complaint. He noted that Admiral had tried to appoint its own contractors to assist, but by 
then, the works had already been carried out and Admiral found the information provided by 
Ms B was inconclusive as to damage. The investigator noted that there may have been a 
storm in the area, but not for the date claimed by Ms B, and after the claim was logged by 
Ms B. He also appreciated that Ms B had been proactive as to repairs, however in terms of 
an insurance claim, adequate information was needed to validate a claim.
Ms B remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue for me to consider is whether Admiral applied the terms and conditions of 
the relevant policy in a fair and reasonable manner in declining Ms Bs claim. Ive concluded 
that Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in this case, and Ill explain my reasoning. In 
reaching this decision Ive considered the submissions of the parties as summarised below.
Ms B said that shed reported the damage to Admiral online in early 2022, however the 
internal damage to an attic bedroom worsened over the following weeks as the storms 
worsened. She accepted however that the roof contractors hadnt inspected the roof 
immediately after the claim was reported and at the start of the bad weather. Ms B said that 
when they did inspect the roof, the storms and wind speeds had become much worse.
Ms B said that as she lived in a four-storey house, it hadnt been possible to take any 
photographs of the roof, however she took photographs of broken slates in the garden and 
bins and garden furniture which had been overturned. She also took photographs of internal 
damage to the paintwork in two bedrooms. She downloaded these photographs to the 
Admiral site but heard nothing at all from Admiral... She then contacted Admiral and sent 
the photographs again, in an email this time. Admirals agents then contacted her about 
inspecting the damage. Ms B said shed had a bad experience with Admirals agents in a 
previous claim and explained to Admiral that she didnt wish them to attend. It said that the 
alternative was for her to get a roof report carried out. Ms B said she asked several times 
what exactly a roof report entailed to gain a better understanding of the process but was told 
that a roofing contractor would know what to write. Shed also been promised one point of 
contact, but this didnt happen, and she had to constantly chase Admiral.
Ms B had wanted to act quickly to limit the damage to the internal paintwork and house 
structure which was a listed building. Permits for scaffolding were also only granted for a 
limited period. Her roofing contractor organised scaffolding and took photographs which Ms 
B forwarded to Admiral. She thought that Admiral should likewise have sent out an agent 
within a reasonable timeframe to investigate the loss and claim as it was time sensitive. She 
said she again heard nothing from Admiral until she received another phone call from the 
agents in May 2022 and she explained what shed done. Ms B said: they insisted in a very 
forceful manner that they had to attend the property. She thought their communication was 
poor and that there was confusion between Admiral and its agents about what was required 
and what had been received, so Ms B had to spend a lot of time on phone calls and emails. 
Ms B said that she then didnt receive an e-mail from Admiral until June 2022. It paid £50 in 
compensation due to delays and lack of communication. By July 2022, the suppliers 
requested screen shots of payment made for the roof works which she provided, and they 
then informed her that they were struggling to validate her claim. She thought that the 
information shed provided was acceptable but also, that it was the responsibility of Admirals 
agent or loss adjuster to validate a claim. She thought what was being expected of her roofer 
was above and beyond what he should be expected to provide. She was now looking for the 
claim to be processed, for compensation due to the stress and anxiety shed suffered, and 
also for the time spent on the matter. She was also looking for an apology from Admiral.
Turning to what Admiral has said about the matter, in its final response letter in August 2022, 
it noted Ms Bs dissatisfaction. However, it didnt accept that it had acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner. Admiral said that its agents had received only a few photographs to 
validate the claim, that these were inconclusive and didnt show clear storm damage. It said 
that the document from Ms Bs contractor was insufficient as it merely stated: All the 
necessary works were caused by recent high winds of which I am sure we are all aware.
Firstly, Admiral didnt consider that the weather on the reported date of loss amounted to 
storm conditions as defined in the policy. It said that Ms B advised Admiral that shed been 
away from the property at the end of January/beginning of February 2022 and so made a 
guess as to the date of damage. Admiral had therefore reviewed the relevant weather data 
for the locality between the dates given by Ms B and found that the wind speeds varied 
between 26mph and 54mph. It said that the claim was recorded four days after Ms B had 
returned to the property. It accepted that there had been a storm in the area, however this 
was at the end of February 2022 and after Ms B had reported the damage to her property. 
Secondly, Admiral said that Ms B had completed the works prior to its agents attending the 
property. It appreciated that Ms B felt she was being proactive in organising repairs, however it referred to the policy booklet and it said it was clear that the policyholder must not agree to 
incur costs or repairs prior to Admiral giving its consent. 
Thirdly, it considered that there was no clear evidence for the agents to be able to validate 
how any damage occurred and that the photographs provided by Ms B didnt clearly show 
the areas of damage. It said that in May 2022, the agents had explained the validation 
requirements and that they needed to see photographs of the damage, a report on damage 
and a breakdown of costs. It said that it had further explained that, upon receiving Ms Bs 
quotation, it may need to appoint a supplier to assist with progressing the claim. It didnt 
consider there were any failings in relation to this communication.
As to the way in which Ms B was treated by the representative of Admirals agent, it 
apologised for the way she was made to feel in her own home. It explained however that 
surveyors do ask policyholders to leave the room they are inspecting to ensure they are not 
on the 360-degree image that is being taken and also the surveyor carries out voice 
dictations which are also uploaded on the reports. Admiral accepted that the representative 
initially thought the property may be too high to obtain photographs, however the relevant 
pole cam did ultimately reach the roof and an inspection was carried out. It said that an 
inspection following completion of work would usually be the last resort. It said that 
unfortunately, following inspection, it was still unable to validate the claim. Finally, Admiral 
didnt agree that there had been poor communication, as it said that all emails had been 
addressed in a manner that would meet its expectations.
Ive carefully considered all of the above as well as the available written evidence and 
photographs. The starting point for my determination is the wording of the relevant policy, as 
this forms the basis of the contract between Admiral and Ms B. In this case, a storm event is 
defined in the policy booklet as; Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), or 
heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour.in 24 hours. From Admirals own 
evidence, its clear that winds of 54mph occurred in early 2022. The policy definition of a 
storm includes winds which are only marginally above those which were recorded in this 
instance. I agree, these recorded windspeeds dont quite meet Admirals policy definition. 
However, this doesnt necessarily mean its fair to impose a strict interpretation.
Unfortunately for Ms B however, the fact that there had been high winds is not in itself 
sufficient. There has to be an evidential basis to show that damage took place in the way 
described in an insurance claim. Ms B considered that damage had worsened as stormy 
conditions continued following the claim. The policy booklet makes it clear that a customer 
may be asked to supply further information to support a claim as in this case. It also states; 
You must notagree or run up any costs without our agreement before any works start. 
Admirals agents also set out in an e-mail to Ms B in May 2022 that; to validate your claim, 
please reply to this email with the following information: Photographs of the damage, Report, 
Breakdown of costs, upon receiving your quotation, we may appoint a supplier to assist with 
progressing your claim.
I appreciate Ms Bs comments and understandable efforts to promptly repair damage to her 
property and that she felt that Admiral had been unclear about the evidence it would require 
from her to validate a claim. However, to be able to claim reimbursement of costs from her 
insurance company, she needed to reasonably comply with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. In this case, Ms Bs roofing contractor unfortunately didnt provide a comprehensive 
or persuasive professional cause of damage report. He provided an assertion as to the 
cause of damage without backing up this assertion. Ms B was able to produce a limited 
number of photographs taken before the works took place, however these were unclear. 
These dont provide any indication as to the timing or cause of the initial damage or the 
extent of any worsening damage during subsequent stormy conditions. Its also unclear whether it was a result of gradual forces, general wear and tear, or other reasons excluded 
under the policy. I therefore cant say that Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I know that this final decision will cause disappointment for Ms B, particularly as an 
Investigators view in relation to a different claim for storm damage was upheld in relation to 
events in 2017. Each case must be considered on its own merits however, and despite the 
stormy conditions in January and February 2022, I dont consider that Ms B has been able to 
show on the balance of probabilities that a specific storm in January/early February 2022 
was the predominant cause of damage in this case. The previous view noted that there had 
been ingress of water following slate slippage in 2017. The Investigator in Ms Bs previous 
claim felt that if the roof was indeed reaching the end of its serviceable lifespan, in light of 
storms shed have expected to see more extensive tile slippage and not simply a single tile. 
In the current case, and particularly in the light of the 2017 damage, its now increasingly 
likely that on-going slate loss and ingress of water is due to general wear and tear. 
Additionally, there is no available evidence of the type, extent and timing of damage in the 
report from Ms Bs contractor.
In conclusion, there is no available persuasive evidence as to the timing and cause of 
damage. I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Ms B. In this case 
however, I cant say that Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its application of the 
policy terms and conditions and by declining Ms Bs claim. I can see that there have been 
some service issues and that Admiral has paid Ms B modest compensation in this regard. 
However, I consider that this compensation was at a reasonable level to recognise the 
additional stress and inconvenience caused to Ms B by these issues.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint and I dont require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibralter) Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman