DRN-2221964
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc told him he could have an overdraft of £100, then 
didnt offer this when he applied for a new account.
What happened
Mr F said he went into a branch of HSBC in mid-September, and asked to open an account. 
He said HSBC staff told him to do this online, and they also said he would get a minimum 
overdraft of £100. But when he applied online, he was turned down for an overdraft. Mr F 
said he rang HSBC to complain, and he was cut off.
HSBC said it had asked Mr F to apply for the account online, because its no longer taking 
applications for new accounts in its branches, during the pandemic. Thats to reduce risk to 
staff and customers. And it said that it had turned Mr F down for the overdraft because of his 
credit score. It said it had asked the staff who were in the branch the day Mr F visited, and 
unfortunately no one recalled advising him about a new account and overdraft. But HSBC 
said it was confident that its staff wouldnt have guaranteed to Mr F that he would get an 
overdraft. 
HSBC said it couldnt find any record of the call where Mr F had been cut off. It sent us the 
call that Mr F made when his complaint was recorded. HSBC didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said there was no 
evidence to confirm what was said to Mr F in branch, but HSBC had followed its terms and 
conditions. And she couldnt say that it was HSBCs fault a call had been cut off. 
Mr F wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
HSBCs terms say We may agree an arranged overdraft on your current account if we think 
you can afford it. I think that makes clear that not everyone will be offered an overdraft. And 
I can see that the web pages HSBC has for online account applications say that HSBC will 
do a credit check, and it wont lend to everyone. So I think Mr F was warned before he made 
his application that he might not get an overdraft.
HSBC told us it had checked Mr Fs credit file, and made a decision not to lend him money. 
Our service wouldnt usually interfere with that decision, and I dont think we should deviate 
from that usual approach here. I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it said it wouldnt 
lend Mr F money as part of opening a new account for him. 
Mr F said he expected to be able to get an overdraft for £100 when he opened his account. 
But he has also said that he was told he would get an overdraft because of the current 
pandemic. HSBC does have support arrangements in place for customers during the current 
pandemic. But HSBC has said that support is for existing customers, who already have an 
overdraft in place. Its policies on dealing with the pandemic dont mean that Mr F would 
automatically be approved for an overdraft. 
I dont know exactly what was said in the branch. But because of what Mr F has said, I think 
its likely that theres been some misunderstanding. I would expect all of HSBCs branch staff 
to know that it will only lend money after doing checks, and that means not every new 
customer will be offered an overdraft. So I dont think its likely that Mr F was told he would 
definitely be approved for an overdraft if he opened an account with HSBC. And because I 
cant say that any misunderstanding was HSBCs fault, I dont think HSBC has to pay Mr F 
compensation for this.
Mr F also said he was cut off on a call with HSBC. Our investigator said she simply couldnt 
tell whose fault this was. I think thats right. Ive not seen anything to suggest to me that 
either HSBC or Mr F ended a call. Sometimes calls do just get cut off, and that may be what 
happened here. Again, because I cant say that this was HSBCs fault, I dont think it has to 
pay Mr F compensation for this.
I know Mr F will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman