DRN-4128222
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card application and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
In February 2013 Mrs C applied for a credit card with Vanquis. In the application, Mrs C said 
she was a tenant and had an income of £15,000 a year. Vanquis carried out a credit search 
and says it found £100 of unsecured debt in Mrs Cs name with evidence of a default that 
was around five years old at the point of application. Vanquis says the application met its 
lending criteria and approved a credit limit of £500. 
Vanquis went on to increase Mrs Cs credit limit on several occasions as follows: 
June 2013 £500-£1,000
November 2013 £1,000-£1,750
November 2014 £1,750-£2,500
June 2015 £2,500-£3,000
June 2016 £3,000-£3,500
November 2017 £3,500-£4,000
Vanquis says that it looked at Mrs Cs credit file, account history and applied its lending 
criteria on each occasion before increasing the credit limit on her credit card. 
Last year, Mrs C complained to Vanquis that it had lent irresponsibly when approving her 
credit card application and later increasing the credit limit on several occasions. Vanquis 
issued a final response and didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Vanquis said the application 
and credit limit increases had all been approved in line with its lending criteria and didnt 
agree it had lent irresponsibly. 
Mr C went on to refer her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld Mrs Cs case and said that whilst they werent persuaded Vanquis had lent 
irresponsibly when it approved her credit card and increased the credit limit to £1,750, they 
thought the decision to increase the credit limit further was unreasonable. The investigator 
recommended that Vanquis refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Mrs Cs credit 
card over £1,750 from November 2014 onwards.   
Vanquis accepted the investigators view but Mrs C asked to appeal. Mrs C said she was on 
benefits at the point of applying for her credit card and that if Vanquis had carried out better 
checks it wouldve found it wasnt affordable for her. As Mrs C asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set  
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability  
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to  
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Mrs C applied for the credit card in February 2013 and provided some details about her 
circumstances at the time. Mrs C said she was a tenant and had an income of £15,000. I 
understand Mrs Cs explained she was in receipt of benefit income when she applied. But 
Im satisfied Vanquis was aware of that and looked at the level of income she gave in the 
application when considering whether it could approve the application. I also think its fair to 
note that Vanquis completed a credit check that found a low level of unsecured debt of 
around £100. Taking all the available information into account, Im satisfied Vanquis carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Cs credit card application. I 
havent been persuaded that Vanquis lent irresponsibly at this point. 
The credit limit was increased in June and November 2013, reaching £1,750. I can see that 
on both occasions Vanquis looked at Mrs Cs account history and found she had been 
making payments in excess of the minimum required amount. In addition, there was no new 
adverse information on Mrs Cs credit file indicating she was in financial difficulties. I havent 
seen anything that wouldve led Vanquis to think Mrs C was struggling to maintain payments 
or that the increases in her credit limit were irresponsibly approved. Im satisfied Vanquis 
completed proportionate checks when increasing Mrs Cs credit limit to £1,750.
Vanquis increased Mrs Cs credit limit again in November 2014, this time to £2,500. Looking 
at Mrs Cs account history, she was close to her credit limit for a significant period. On two 
occasions in the six months before November 2014 Mrs C was charged for being over her 
agreed credit limit. I also think its fair to note that by this point Mrs Cs application had been 
made over three years earlier. And theres no evidence Vanquis had sought information from 
Mrs C, updating her circumstances. In my view, the above factors shouldve been enough to 
cause Vanquis to carry out some further checks to ensure increased borrowing was 
sustainable for Mrs C. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint on a similar basis and asked Vanquis to refund all 
interest, fees and charges applied to her credit card on balances over £1,750 from 
November 2014. Vanquis responded to say it accepts. As Vanquis has accepted the 
borrowing over £1,750 shouldnt have been approved, Im not going to make any further 
findings on the later credit limit increases. It stands to reason that if I think the increase to 
£2,500 was irresponsibly, the same goes for further increases. 
As Im satisfied the credit limit increases from November 2014 onwards were irresponsibly 
approved, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Vanquis Bank Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurance (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,750- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs C along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Vanquis should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after 19 November 2014 regarding the account from Mrs Cs credit file
- Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,750, Vanquis should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs C for the remaining amount. Once 
Mrs C has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
19 November 2014 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Vanquis to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman