DRN-4363623
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to close two jointly held savings 
accounts, and notified defaults to a credit reference agency to her detriment. Mrs S also 
complained about a breach of the data protection rules (GDPR). 
What happened
In March 2023 Mrs S attempted to increase the credit limit on her Nationwide credit card, but 
this was declined. She checked her credit ratings and was dismayed to discover defaults 
showing from March 2019 with a Nationwide account. Mrs S said she realised this related to 
a joint current account she had previously held. 
Mrs S said she had gone into Nationwides branch in June 2016 with the other account 
holder and requested removal from the account along with linked savings accounts. She 
said Nationwide's records showed that she was removed from the current account in June 
2016, but not the savings accounts. She asked Nationwide to investigate and said the 
savings accounts disappeared from her Nationwide app within 12 hours. 
Mrs S asked Nationwide why it had taken seven years to close the savings accounts, and 
said she was told there had been a mistake. She also raised concerns about the handling of 
her personal data. She said the credit reference agencies couldnt amend her credit file until 
they were notified by Nationwide, which she asked it to do. But Nationwide said it had 
notified her removal from the account from June 2016, but hadnt adjusted all information. 
Mrs S called Nationwide to raise her concerns and requested to speak to a manager. She 
said she asked for call recordings due to how the call handler referred to her situation. She 
said she was told Nationwide had emailed the credit reference agency to have the default 
removed. 
Mrs S complained and Nationwide offered £200 compensation for her inconvenience, but its 
cheque couldnt be paid in. Mrs S is pleased the defaults were removed but said Nationwide 
and the credit reference agency blame each other for the mistake. She said this has caused 
her worry and sleepless nights and she should be compensated for the time taken to close 
the accounts, leading to four years of bad credit. Nationwide apologised that her credit file 
wasnt updated correctly, but said this wasnt due to incorrect information it had sent as this 
was updated with the other two credit reference agencies it uses. It said it no longer held the 
notification from 2016, but is confident it requested the same updates for all three agencies.
Nationwide said there was no breach of GDPR from Mrs Ss calls with its call centre. It said it 
hadnt provided any new information during calls, and used the information Mrs S had 
provided to try and establish the cause of the problem. Nationwide said it is required to 
complete the relevant data privacy compliance ahead of all home working by its staff 
including use of a headset whilst speaking to Mrs S and a protected screen. 
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Nationwides agent 
didnt give Mrs S details of the account holder or account status not known to her already. 
He said Nationwide couldnt be sure why the accounts didnt close but thought it due to the 
credit reference agency. In any event Nationwide offered compensation for the delay which 
he thought was fair and reasonable. He said the account balance can be paid to either party 
but should be issued in joint names, or to a nominated account agreed by both parties. 
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said shed spent hours speaking to Nationwide and the credit reference agency trying to 
resolve the issues. She said her husband had suffered serious ill health which impacted on 
their family life. Mrs S said she fully understood the credit reference agency was to blame for 
the credit file been incorrect, but she had suffered as Nationwide hadnt accepted her up to 
her credit limit, until the error was corrected. And Nationwide had taken seven years to close 
the savings accounts for which the £200 compensation is inadequate for her time and worry.
The investigator said that as found in Mrs Ss linked complaint the credit reference agency 
failed to carry out the amendment to the joint account and it alone was responsible for that 
error. He said that compensation was awarded under that complaint that Mrs S accepted. He 
said the £200 compensation in the present complaint was for the trouble and upset caused 
to Mrs S for not closing the saving accounts at the time requested and is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S wants to know why it took Nationwide seven years to close her accounts and why the 
cheque from Nationwide was issued in joint names. Mrs S also wants to know if it was 
appropriate for Nationwide to give out information on another individuals account and if its 
acceptable for its staff to work with children or others around the home, and wished to know 
what security measures were in place. Mrs S felt that data had been disclosed to her that 
shouldnt have been on calls. 
When Mrs S closed her joint account in 2016 it appears that Nationwide notified this to the 
three credit reference agencies that it uses. Two of these agencies updated Mrs Ss credit 
records correctly, but one did not. Following Mrs Ss complaint, Nationwide notified the credit 
reference agency that changes needed to be made urgently to its records removing her link 
to the account from June 2016, including any defaults. 
I can see that Mrs S is aware that we cannot hold Nationwide responsible for the credit 
reference agencys error in not updating her record. And Mrs S has agreed compensation for 
this error and its impact upon her within her separate complaint about the credit reference 
agency. Mrs S has further described the impact that stems from this error in the present 
complaint, but I am unable to reconsider this as it has been dealt with under the separate 
complaint she raised and is not the fault of Nationwide. 
I can see that Nationwide didnt notify the credit reference agency about the closure of Mrs 
Ss savings accounts back in 2016. Mrs S knew this to be the case as they were still 
showing in her Nationwide app when she brought her complaint. Im pleased Nationwide 
apologised to Mrs S for its failure to close the accounts and acted quickly to close them, and 
they disappeared from Mrs Ss app. As the investigator has said, savings accounts dont 
report to credit files as they dont contain credit information and so they wouldnt have 
impacted on Mrs Ss credit rating by remaining open. 
I have also considered Mrs Ss points about the protection of her personal data (GDPR). It 
isnt appropriate for a business to disclose information about another individuals account 
without their permission as this would be in breach of GDPR. Nationwide reviewed Mrs Ss 
joint account, and it held and provided the same details that would have been available to 
Mrs S when she was a joint account holder. I havent seen that Nationwide provided any further information in addition to that discussed 
with Mrs S in the context of her separate complaint, or made an unauthorised release of her 
data. And so I think it was fair for Nationwide to say that there hasnt been a breach of 
GDPR. From the record of the calls between Mrs S and Nationwide, I havent seen any 
evidence of detriment or adverse impact on Mrs S concerning the release of her personal 
data. 
During a call between Mrs S and Nationwide she described having overheard a child crying, 
for which the agent apologised and when this re-occurred, the agent apologised again. Mrs 
S said she also heard a male voice which she thought was in the room with the agent. 
Nationwide is required to complete the relevant data privacy compliance ahead of its staff 
working from home. This is in common with all banks and other businesses that use home 
workers and includes the use of a headset whilst speaking to customers and a protected 
screen. 
Nationwide has told us that its agent followed these security steps and took appropriate 
measures to protect Mrs Ss data. I havent seen anything that would cause me to doubt 
Nationwide on this point. Im aware that many banks have pre-recorded measures alerting 
customers that they may hear non-office sounds during a call with its home workers. Im 
sorry that Mrs S was upset by this, but I dont think she has been treated any differently to 
other Nationwide customers or suffered any detriment from her phone experience. 
I can see that Nationwide issued a cheque for the balance of the joint account for just over 
£2 in joint names. I appreciate this wasnt cashable by Mrs S as there was then no joint 
account to pay it into and this was inconvenient. 
I have thought about the £200 compensation Nationwide has offered Mrs S for the poor 
service it provided her. Mrs S said this payment was offered by Nationwide as a gesture of 
goodwill and not compensation and that this wouldnt affect any outcome we might reach. 
When we consider an award of compensation we do so for the distress and inconvenience 
that has been caused to the consumer. We have to take into account what the business has 
offered in respect of its poor service and determine if we think this is appropriate with regard 
to the impact on the consumer and so it doesnt matter that Nationwide described its offer of 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Having considered all of the information from both 
parties I am of the view that £200 is both fair and reasonable as a reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience Mrs S has been put to and so I dont require Nationwide to do anything 
further.  
I realise that Mrs S will be disappointed about this, and I want her to know that in reaching 
this view I have considered the effort required by her to resolve Nationwides error with 
respect to the time she spent on the phone. I recommend that Mrs S contact Nationwide 
about its offer of compensation, and if she does so, I recommend that Nationwide make 
payment of the £200 by cheque in her sole name if that is how she would like to receive the 
funds, and to do so as soon as possible. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman