DRN-2632852
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
Miss S says she received a voicemail message on her work phone from HMRC which said 
she needed to call back urgently, or legal action would be taken against her. She called the 
number given and it sounded like she was put through to a server. Miss S spoke to an agent 
who said he was a court tax officer working on behalf of HMRC. She was told that she owed 
£4,498 in unpaid tax and charges and that if she didnt make an immediate payment shed 
be arrested. 
Miss S was told she had been sent a letter about the unpaid tax. She has explained she is 
not British but with the exception of around two years she has worked and paid tax in the UK 
for around ten years. She moved abroad in 2018 and returned to the UK in January 2020 
and considered that she may have missed correspondence because of her change of 
address when she moved abroad. In addition, in 2017 Miss S says she received a large 
bonus of around £13,000 so thought she may not have paid tax on this amount.
Miss S was told shed receive a call back. Between calls Miss S checked HMRCs website 
for its telephone number. When she received the call back shortly after Miss S saw that the 
number she had been called from matched the one on HMRCs site. The second caller 
asked Miss S to make the payment. She couldnt access her account online, so the caller 
told her to call her bank or go in to branch to make the payment. Miss S was told it was 
important the payment went through to avoid arrest, so to ensure this happened she should 
tell bank staff she was making an emergency payment for a friend. She was also told shed 
be given a warning that she should ignore, or the payment may not go through and shed be 
arrested.
I have set out below relevant parts of Miss Ss call to HSBC:
HSBC: Have you spoken to us previously about making this payment and are now 
calling us back after verifying the details? So is this first of you calling up to make this 
payment?
Miss S: Sorry
HSBC: Is this the first time youve called to make this payment?
Miss S: Yes
HSBC: Fraudsters are known to impersonate organisations or people you trust, such as 
HSBC, the police, HMRC, companies or friends/family. There have been instances where 
criminals have coached our customers into how to make a payment. This may include 
initial requests for lower value payments which are followed by larger transactions after the 
payee has been set up. Once a payment is made to these details, we may not be able to 
get your money back. Ill just be asking you a few questions about the payment request.
Now, has anyone called you unexpectedly and requested you to make 
the payment? 
Miss S: No 
HSBC: And what is the reason for the payment please?
Miss S: Err, its for emergency basis
HSBC: Yeah, so is it helping friends and family for that emergency, is it an emergency 
purchase? 
Miss S: Err yes, its a personal transaction
HSBC: Now, before sending your payment details, I need to ensure that youre confident 
that the payment details are correct and this is a genuine company. Now can I ask, have 
you considered paying with a bank card? 
Miss S: Err, no
HSBC: Are they a genuine company or person? 
Miss S: Its a person 
HSBC: And have you verified the payment details? 
Miss S: Yes
HSBC: Can I check, have you used them before, or have they been recommended to 
you? 
Miss S: No, I havent used them before. I didnt have the bank details before
HSBC: Can I check, were you expecting to make this payment?
Miss S: Er yes, as a emergency basis, err today 
HSBC: And is this the amount you were expecting to pay today? 
Miss S: Yes
(.)
HSBC: So once payment made it cannot be recalled and should reach the beneficiary 
immediately subject to internal checksAfter the payment had been made the caller terminated the call. Miss S has explained that 
when pressure was no longer being applied, she became uneasy and called HSBC the 
following day. 
HSBC hasnt reimbursed Miss S so she brought a complaint to this service. The investigator 
who considered it asked HSBC to refund Miss S in full. He said Miss S had a reasonable 
basis for believing she was making a genuine payment. He wasnt sure if HSBC was relying 
on the fact it had provided an effective warning and said if it was, he didnt consider the 
warning to be effective. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is for HSBC to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM Code. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a 
customer if it can establish that*:
The customer ignored an effective warning and so didnt meet their requisite level of 
care.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
            the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
            genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
            was legitimate
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
HSBC say Miss S ignored an effective warning and didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing the payment was being sent to a genuine HMRC account or that the person with 
whom she was transacting was genuine. In the alternative, Miss S was grossly negligent in 
not telling the telephone banking agent the truth about the reason for the payment. HSBC 
also said Miss S was provided with a warning and that she didnt complete any checks 
before making the payment. In particular, HSBC asked me to consider the following points:
- HSBC said the scam Miss S fell victim to wasnt sophisticated and referred to 
guidance provided by it and the government in respect of this type of scam.
- There were a series of factors that should have alerted Miss S to the fact she was 
being scammed and meant she didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. HSBC 
referred to the fact Miss S was cold called, hadnt received any correspondence from 
HMRC, wasnt expecting a call from HMRC or to need to pay tax, the threats 
received were not ones HMRC would make, the fact she was told to lie to her bank 
and that this is a well-known scam.
- Miss S didnt complete any checks before making the payment and didnt verify the 
caller. She should have terminated the call and called the genuine HMRC to make 
enquiries. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Miss S 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss S 
lost.
If HSBC had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, the money 
would have more likely than not remained in Miss Ss savings account and so HSBC 
should also pay interest calculated at the savings account rate from the date it 
decided not to refund under the Code to the date of payment. 
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met and will explain why. When she called HSBC to make the payment Miss S was provided 
with the following warning:
Fraudsters are known to impersonate organisations or people you trust, such as HSBC, 
the police, HMRC, companies or friends/family. There have been instances where 
criminals have coached our customers into how to make a payment. This may include 
initial requests for lower value payments which are followed by larger transactions after the 
payee has been set up. Once a payment is made to these details, we may not be able to 
get your money back. Ill just be asking you a few questions about the payment request.
Miss S has told this service that she was told by the scammer prior to the call that she 
should ignore any warning she was given, as the payment had to go through to avoid her 
immediate arrest. She says that in her state of panic, and given the threatened 
consequences of the payment not being made, this seemed reasonable to her at the time. 
To meet the requirements in the Code of an Effective Warning it must, as a minimum, be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. I dont consider the warning met all of 
these requirements. The warning didnt bring to life what a scam of this nature looks like or 
the sophisticated nature of the scam  so it lacks impact. It provides little detail about how 
fraudsters impersonate trusted organisations like HMRC or that numbers might be spoofed 
and what this means. And whilst the warning mentions being coached, the example given of 
initial requests for lower payments followed by larger transactions, doesnt apply in this case. 
So I can see why Miss S didnt connect the warning with her own circumstances.
The warning doesnt mention that HMRC will never call and ask for money or put pressure 
on a customer to make an immediate payment. It also doesnt suggest how a customer 
might protect themselves from this type of scam, which is another requirement of the Code. 
Pointing out that fraudsters can impersonate organisations like HMRC doesnt go far 
enough. 
Overall, the warning lacked impact and I consider Miss S acted reasonably in continuing to 
make the payment and that she didnt ignore an effective warning.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Miss S had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Miss S failed to take the requisite level 
of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster/s for 
Miss S and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on her thoughts and actions. Im also persuaded by what Miss S has told this service about how this 
scam happened. Her recollections are consistent with what she told HSBC when she 
reported the scam and with what other victims of scams of this nature have described.
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that the Miss S lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because;
Before she made the payment, Miss S checked that shed been called from an official 
HMRC phone number and was satisfied she had been. Miss S was unaware of the 
prevalence of HMRC scams of this nature or that telephone numbers could be 
spoofed  and the warning she was provided with didnt mention this. So I dont 
consider her presumption she was speaking to HMRC was unreasonable. HSBC has 
referred to online information about HMRC scams like this one, but I dont consider it 
to be reasonable to expect Miss S to find information like this when she was under 
pressure to make a quick payment and was unaware of the possibility she may be 
the victim of a scam. I accept that with the benefit of hindsight, and without pressure 
being placed on her, Miss S could have undertaken further checks but dont believe 
that this means she didnt reasonably believe she was dealing with a genuine body 
and making a genuine payment.  
Miss S spoke to two different agents, giving her the impression she was speaking to 
a legitimate body with different departments.  
Whilst Miss S wasnt expecting a call from HMRC she has provided a reasonable 
explanation for her belief she owed tax and should make an immediate payment. 
Miss S thought she might owe tax on a substantial bonus received before she moved 
abroad. She had also been out of the country and her address had changed so her 
belief that letters may not have reached her was reasonable.  
Ive thought carefully about what happened during Miss Ss call with HSBC and 
whether what Miss S was told should have affected her reasonable basis for 
believing the payment was genuine. I accept that Miss S gave an incorrect reason for 
the payment but have also taken into account the fact its widely recognised that 
scam victims will be given cover stories to mislead their bank about the reason for a 
payment  and this is what happened here. Miss S has explained she was coached 
through what to say in the call by someone she considered held a position of 
authority and did as she was told to ensure the payment was made immediately. She 
was told how the payment process would work, including what to say to her bank, 
(that she was making an emergency payment) and that she should ignore the 
warning shed be given because it was vital the payment went through to avoid her 
arrest. And her circumstances didnt fit the example of how someone may be 
coached in the warning. In the circumstances, and given the pressure she was 
under, I can see why the call didnt change her belief that she was dealing with 
HMRC and not a scammer.   
 
Im satisfied Miss S was placed under a considerable amount of pressure by the 
fraudster/s to make a quick payment. Miss S was convinced that if she didnt make 
the payment immediately, she would be arrested. This was of course a deliberate 
tactic by the fraudster/s to create fear  in the hope it would disrupt Miss Ss thinking 
and make her more compliant. On balance, Im satisfied this is what happened to 
Miss S and that in all the circumstances her response was not unreasonable. I 
believe that it was difficult for Miss S to think clearly in the moment about whether 
HMRC would threaten her with arrest. And given that she received calls in quick 
succession I consider Miss S had little opportunity to make more extensive enquiries. Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC has shown that Miss S ignored an effective warning or 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the payment was legitimate. 
Im also not satisfied she was grossly negligent in giving HSBC an incorrect reason for the 
payment. Gross negligence involves taking a recognised risk and goes significantly beyond 
ordinary negligence. Miss S believed she was speaking to a genuine authority and was 
under pressure to make a payment to avoid significant and immediate consequences. The 
fraudster also coached Miss S about what to say. In the circumstances Im not persuaded 
not telling the truth about the payment reason amounts to gross negligence. 
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Ive found that Miss S ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. And that
its fair and reasonable that HSBC reimburse her now to resolve this complaint. I therefore 
require that HSBC:
- pay Miss S £4,498;
- pay interest on the above amount, calculated at the rate that applied to the savings 
account the funds were transferred from, from the date of HSBCs decision not to 
meet the claim under the Code to the date of settlement  less any tax that is lawfully 
deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman