DRN-3535807
The complaint
Mr H complains that Phoenix Life Limited trading as Sun Life (Sun Life) incorrectly informed 
Mr H that his Over 55s life cover policy still covered him once hed moved outside of the UK.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Sun Life has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr H has disagreed. Mr H has 
quoted policy terms which he feels demonstrates hes no longer covered; he also feels hes 
incurred costs which are more than the £100 offered. The sequence of events is not in 
dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied Sun Life were correct in informing Mr H that he was 
still covered by the policy. This is because there is no term in the conditions of the 
policy which excludes customers residing outside of the UK.
Mr H has quoted the policy eligibility criteria to contend this. It states the need for the 
customer to be a resident in the UK. However, this eligibility criteria lists these criteria 
as something required at the starting date of the policy, not for its duration.
Mr H was a UK resident when the policy started, so I dont feel the term hes 
highlighted suggests hes now excluded from the cover simply due to moving to the 
Philippines after the policys inception.
Mr H has reiterated that there is no clear term which states he is covered if he now 
resides outside of the UK  but by the same thought process I can see no exclusion 
in the policy terms which states those living outside the UK arent covered.
Mr H has also highlighted terms about the benefit that would be paid if he were to die 
travelling. However, these terms dont suggest any geographical restrictions, just that 
the insured must be a fare paying passenger using one of the listed forms of 
transportation.
Sun Life has been clear in its communications with Mr H that his residence doesnt 
restrict any potential claims. On the balance of evidence available Im satisfied that 
Sun Life have acted correctly in this instance.
Sun Life has offered Mr H £100 for delays in communicating its outcome to the 
complaint. Mr H has explained hes incurred more than this in costs when 
complaining, but Ive not seen any further evidence that persuades me Sun Life 
should pay more. I consider that Sun Lifes offer is a fair and reasonable one in the 
circumstances.
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Sun Life should pay 
the £100 previously offered if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld. The offer already made by Sun 
Life is a fair and reasonable one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman