The complaint
Mr B has complained about a number of loans he took from Emergency Cash Limited 
trading as Wizzcash.com. Mr B says Wizzcash lent to him irresponsibly.  He has also 
complained about the level of interest charged on the loans.
What happened
Mr B was given 3 loans by Wizzcash between June and August 2017. The loans were all 
repayable in instalments of three months.   I understand all the loans are closed.
A summary of Mr B's borrowing is as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 10/06/2017 17/06/2017 3 £260.00
2 29/06/2017 15/08/2017 3 £250.00
3 15/08/2017 15/12/2017 3 £250.00
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs complaint. She didn't think Wizzcash had been 
wrong to provide Mr B with any of the loans.  Mr B didn't agree with the adjudicators 
assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B could repay the 
loans sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such 
as the loan amount, the repayment amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. But there 
was no set list of checks Wizzcash had to do.
DRN-1770694In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Wizzcash should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether continued lending was sustainable for Mr B.
 Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Mr Bs complaint.
 
Wizzcash has told us it carried out some checks before lending to Mr B. It asked him for 
details of his income and normal monthly expenditure and carried out some credit checks. 
Wizzcash has explained that it analyses the information given by borrowers about their 
expenditure. It says that it compares this information to the credit commitments found on 
reports from credit reference agencies and adds the higher value of credit to the consumers 
declared living expenses. Wizzcash says that Mr Bs credit reports differed from some of the 
information he gave about his expenditure so it increased the amount of credit commitments 
and his total expenditure accordingly, before calculating his disposable income available to 
repay any lending.
From what Ive seen, I think the checks Wizzcash did before agreeing to the three loans 
were reasonable and proportionate.  The amounts that Mr B needed to repay each month 
were relatively modest compared with the monthly income he had declared to Wizzcash. 
Mr B has told us that if Wizzcash had carried out better checks when he applied for his 
loans, it would have discovered that he was paying for a number of other loans and that he 
was struggling with a spiral of debt. Mr B has provided a credit search. However, generally, 
the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be 
very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a portion of the credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this 
may explain any differences between the information provided by the lenders credit check 
and the information Mr B says it should have seen.
 
In any event, given the amount Wizzcash was lending to Mr B each time, what Mr B had told 
the lender about his circumstances and the number of loans agreed, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Wizzcash to ask Mr B for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the three loans. I think that it 
was reasonable for Wizzcash to make its lending decision based on the information Mr B had provided and what it found in its checks. I think that the checks it did were proportionate 
and that it had no reason to think that Mr B had any significant financial problems.
Ive considered that Mr B did repay his first 2 loans ahead of schedule, and he took loan 3 on 
the same day he repaid loan 2. But I dont think (at that early stage of the lending 
relationship) that Mr Bs borrowing and repayment behaviour would reasonably have 
indicated to Wizzcash that he was facing serious problems managing his money. And I dont 
think it had reached the point where I think the lender ought to have been independently 
verifying the information Mr B was providing about his finances by, for example, asking to 
see copies of his bank statements. 
I appreciate that Mr B says his financial situation was much worse, and that he was 
borrowing from several other short-term lenders. But this doesnt appear to be something he 
shared with the lender at that time, or something that proportionate checks would have 
uncovered. So I dont think Wizzcash did anything wrong in providing the three loans to Mr 
B.
Mr B has also complained that he thinks the level of interest charged on his loans was too 
high. From what Ive seen, I think its likely that he was aware that he was taking high cost 
short-term loans that carried a high interest rate. And I havent seen anything which makes 
me think that Wizzcash treated him unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest 
charges when it agreed the lending.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Emergency Cash Limited trading as Wizzcash.com.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman