DRN-3742904
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has declined to refund the losses he suffered when he 
attempted to rent a property in 2022.
What happened
Mr F holds an account with Monzo. In 2022, Mr Fs previous tenancy was ending, and he 
was looking to rent a new property.
He agreed to rent with a former work colleague, someone whod been a close friend of 
Mr Fs for nine years. The friend found a suitable looking property through a letting agent 
and Mr F went and viewed it in person. Mr F says hed also checked out the letting agency, 
which had a website and appeared legitimate.
The agent said he could pay the deposit and advance rent at the letting agencys office. But 
Mr F said he couldnt make the times the agent said the office was open, due to his work 
commitments.
Mr F didnt trust sending this payment to the agents bank account directly  that being a 
new payee. Instead, he sent it from his Monzo account to his friend, whose account hed 
previously made payments to without issue. His friend told Mr F theyd transfer it on to the 
agent. Mr F sent his friend three separate payments totalling £775.
The agent emailed both Mr F and his friend confirming receipt of the payments. But the 
agent then said that if they wanted to move in immediately, theyd need to pay for a gas 
engineer to carry out some work and provide a gas certificate. Mr F then sent three 
payments directly to the agent for a total of £441.66. He believed this amount would later be 
refunded by the landlord of the property.
But Mr F wasnt able to move into the property and he says he was then unable to make 
further contact with the agent or his friend. He now thinks they may have been working 
together to steal his money.
Mr F reported what had happened to Monzo and asked it to recover his money. However, 
the funds were no longer in the receiving accounts by the time Mr F reported it to Monzo. 
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection to scam victims in many 
circumstances - the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code 
(the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo isnt a signatory of 
the CRM Code but has explained it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. 
However, civil disputes arent within the scope of the CRM Code. Monzo said that Mr F had 
a civil dispute about the payments hed sent to his friend and didnt treat this as being an 
APP scam. Monzo said it wasnt responsible for refunding Mr F.
Mr F didnt accept this  hed not been able to get the money back and thought Monzo 
should be held responsible for paying him what hed lost. 
Our Investigator reviewed Mr Fs complaint. The Investigator obtained further information 
about the accounts that had received the payments Mr F made, to establish if this had been 
a scam or if this would be a civil matter between Mr F, his friend, and the agent. But the 
Investigator couldnt find enough evidence to show this was a criminal attempt to defraud 
Mr F rather than being a civil dispute. In particular, the Investigator didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show there had been intent to defraud Mr F from the outset  that being 
needed to show there had been an APP scam. So Monzo didnt need to refund the money 
Mr F lost.
Mr F didnt agree and so I have been asked to make a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr F. He has lost a significant sum and his friend 
doesnt seem to have treated him fairly. I can understand why Mr F feels so strongly that his 
losses should be refunded to him. But that doesnt mean that Monzo is responsible for the 
money Mr F lost or that it now needs to refund him.
A bank has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. 
As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have 
instructed to be made.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam (excepted in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite
explicit that it doesnt apply to all payments. It says it does not apply to private civil disputes, 
including payments made to legitimate suppliers where the goods or services werent 
received.
So, the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of services  
such as the rental of a flat or gas certificate as happened here. 
Instead, the CRM Code only applies in very specific circumstances  where the customer 
has been the victim of an APP scam, in other words a criminal fraud. In particular, the CRM 
Code doesnt apply unless it can reasonably be established that there was the intent to 
defraud the customer from the outset. Further, it would need to be established that this 
would most likely meet the high bar required for criminal fraud.
Here there doesnt appear to be any doubt that Mr F didnt receive what he paid for. 
However, with the above in mind, in order to be satisfied that Mr F has been the victim of an 
APP scam covered by the CRM Code, Id have to be satisfied that the evidence is enough 
for me to be sure the lettings agency and Mr Fs close friend were both intent on defrauding 
him from the outset. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, Im not persuaded I can say that is 
most likely what happened here and will explain why.
The payments here were made both to Mr Fs friend and to a letting agent. Mr F suspects 
the two were acting in collusion to defraud him. I cannot know for sure what happened, or 
whether Mr F is right in these concerns. I do not have the power to compel those he accuses 
to testify to their versions of events, nor can I instruct a Police investigation into the matter. 
Instead, Im restricted to considering what I think is more likely than not (and not just as 
likely) based on the evidence available to me. Mr F explains this was a friend hed known for many years. He describes him as a close 
friend. It is of course possible that this friend suddenly decided to criminally defraud Mr F 
and had never had any intent of forwarding on the money Mr F sent. 
But I cant exclude the possibility that Mr Fs friend had genuinely intended to rent a property 
with him. The evidence Ive seen doesnt make me think it is more likely that the friend 
intended to defraud him from the very start than, for instance, that he withheld the money for 
other reasons or later decided not to pay Mr F back. 
This matters because, to establish that the payments Mr F made to his friend were an APP 
scam, Id need to think it most likely that this was always the friends (criminal) intent, and 
not something that the friend decided to do later for whatever reason. I cant safely conclude 
that was the case with the evidence before me, I simply dont find this more likely than the 
alternatives.
Ive also looked at the information Ive been able to find about the payments Mr F made to 
the letting agent. Mr F explains he made these payments in the belief it was to pay for a gas 
engineer. Mr F now suspects the payments werent used to pay for the service he expected. 
But that in itself isnt enough to show that what happened was an APP scam. 
Mr F says he visited the rental property to view it with the agent. He says the agent had an 
office and a website, and that his checks had shown it was legitimate. I havent been able to 
review the website, but I appreciate from what Mr F now says, that all appeared genuine at 
the time. All of these points were consistent with this having been a genuine lettings agent.
In reaching this decision, Ive seen confidential information (that I cannot share in any way) 
relating to the recipient bank accounts. Had the agent been operating fraudulently, it might 
have been expected there had been reports of other victims. But this didnt appear to be the 
case. And nothing else I have seen leads me to believe that, at the time Mr F made 
payments, the agents account was being operated fraudulently.
Again, while it is possible that the agent deliberately set out to defraud Mr F (and even 
perhaps did so in collaboration with Mr Fs friend), I cant exclude the possibility that Mr F 
made the payment to a genuine property agent. As Ive noted, it seems he didnt get what he 
paid for, but that isnt enough for the CRM Code to apply to these payments  it doesnt 
make it an APP scam.
 
So I dont find I can safely establish that these payments were made because of an APP 
scam. I cant require Monzo to apply the CRM Code in those circumstances.
Mr F queries why Monzo couldnt chargeback these payments. However, the chargeback 
process is something that can only apply to card payments, operating under the relevant 
card scheme rules. It cant be used when money has been sent by bank transfer - as 
happened here. So Monzo could not have attempted a chargeback.
I also dont think the payments Mr F made were sufficiently out of character or unusual that 
Monzo ought to have had concerns when Mr F submitted the payment instructions. The 
payments were all relatively low in value and were unremarkable when compared to the 
normal usage of Mr Fs account. So, I dont consider Monzo needed to intervene before 
processing them.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr F but overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Monzo to refund the money he lost.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman