DRN-4471299
The complaint
Mr D complains that Currys Retail Limited told him he wouldnt be accepted for credit when 
he wanted to purchase goods. 
What happened
Mr D said he visited a Currys store in November 2022 wishing to purchase a new fridge 
freezer. He said the store was advertising an interest free credit facility which he wanted to 
make use of. 
Mr D said when he enquired about how to proceed with the credit offer, he was told by a 
staff member that there was no point applying for it as he didnt meet the lenders age criteria 
because he was over 80 years old. So, it said he wouldnt be accepted for credit by the 
lender. 
Mr D complained to Currys as he felt he was being discriminated against because of his age. 
Currys said the lender (who I will refer to as C) set its criteria about who it would lend to, 
not Currys. So, it said Mr Ds complaint was best directed to C. 
Dissatisfied, Mr D referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said the Currys 
representative was only passing on information to Mr D about Cs lending criteria. So, he 
didnt think Currys had treated Mr D unfairly or discriminated against him.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
questioned why Currys could not have sourced an alternative finance provider or financed 
the transaction itself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Id like to acknowledge Mr Ds strength of feeling on this matter and wish to assure him 
that I have carefully considered everything he has said during the course of his complaint. 
Where Currys offers forms of credit which allow its customers to pay for goods over a period 
of time, it does not provide that credit to its customer itself but rather helps make 
arrangements for that customer to enter into a credit agreement with a third party lender  
which in this case is C. Typically, once the credit agreement is entered into, C will pay 
Currys for the goods and will have its own arrangements with the customer under the credit 
agreement for the repayment of the credit.
Broadly, the activity of introducing a customer to a lender in this way or helping with 
preparatory work with a view to entering into a credit agreement is known as credit broking. 
In short, Mr D is able to bring a complaint to this service about the things Currys did which 
relate to credit broking, but only those things.
What this means in this case is that Im not deciding whether Currys should have offered 
credit to Mr D or not  its not a lender so it wouldnt do this.  Rather, Im looking at whether 
Currys treated Mr D fairly in the course of its dealings as a credit broker. 
Cs criteria in respect of the type of credit being offered to Currys customers was that it 
would not lend to people aged over 80. So, where Currys has simply relayed that information 
to Mr D I do not find it has treated him unfairly or discriminated against him. It is not Currys 
decision to not lend to people over 80, it is Cs. If Currys had allowed Mr D to submit an 
application to C, it appears it would most likely have been declined by C on the basis he did 
not meet its lending criteria. This might have had a negative impact on Mr Ds credit file. I 
dont find Currys was acting unreasonably therefore when it suggested there would be no 
point in Mr D applying with the lender it was able to introduce him to. 
Mr D said irrespective of this Currys still discriminated against him by telling him not to apply 
for credit and should have sourced another lender that would lend to him or should have lent 
to him itself. Its not unusual for a retailer to only have the credit products of one lender on 
offer. But in any event, Currys was not obliged in any way to source to an alternative for Mr 
D. And, as Ive already explained, Currys was not a lender so it couldnt have offered credit 
itself. If Mr D is suggesting that Currys should have made concessions for him to pay in 
instalments or should have had arrangements in place with other lenders with different 
lending criteria then this goes to Currys activities as a retailer, not a credit broker, and they 
are not activities covered by this service. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment 
on such matters.
Overall, I dont find Currys treated Mr D unfairly, so I dont require it to do anything in respect 
of his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman