DRN-1601034
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the settlement Society of Lloyds has paid her for a claim she made 
on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In 2016, part of Mrs Ps wall fell down during a storm. She made a claim on her policy, which 
Lloyds cash settled. Due to Mrs Ps personal circumstances, she wasnt in a position to get 
the wall rebuilt at this point.
In March 2018, the weight of snow caused a tree to fall onto another section of the wall, 
causing some of it to collapse onto the pavement. Mrs P made another claim on her policy 
for the costs of the whole section of the wall, as she said it wasnt built in line with current 
regulations. She said the remaining part of the wall wasnt safe.
Lloyds paid for the tree to be removed. It asked Mrs P if she could provide estimates for the 
work. But Mrs P wasnt able to find a builder. So Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to 
investigate the damage on her behalf. Mrs P had had the wall taken down by the time of the 
adjusters visit, so they had to rely on photos of the damage. They found that only the top 
few courses of the brickwork had been affected by the falling tree. They found damage to the 
corner section of the wall had happened over time, rather than being down to the falling tree. 
In July 2018, Mrs P sent in a quote from her own builder for the cost of rebuilding the whole 
wall. The builder found that the damage had been partly caused by the falling tree but was 
also due to movement from wind and traffic vibration. So at the end of October 2018, Lloyds 
supplier visited Mrs Ps property to draw up an estimate for rebuilding the damaged parts of 
the wall only. Lloyds decided to offer Mrs P settlement based on its suppliers quote. This 
was for around £2340, less Mrs Ps policy excess.
Due to Mrs Ps personal situation, Lloyds wasnt able to put the offer to Mrs P until the end 
of January 2019. Mrs P wasnt happy with the offer, as it was substantially less than her 
builders quote. She also said her garden was unusable as a result of the debris and people 
were fly-tipping in the garden. So she complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds reviewed its handling of the claim. It maintained that the cash settlement should be 
limited to the costs of only rebuilding the damaged parts of the wall. But it did think thered 
been some unnecessary delays in the handling of the claim. So it paid Mrs P £250 
compensation overall - £50 in its first response to her complaint and £200 in its final 
response letter.
Mrs P remained unhappy with Lloyds and asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought the settlement Lloyds had paid Mrs P for the wall was fair. She felt 
the policy made it clear that Lloyds would only pay for parts of the wall that had been 
damaged by the falling tree. But she didnt think the compensation Lloyds had offered Mrs P 
was enough. She felt, given Mrs Ps personal situation at the time, that the delays in 
communicating with her and in dealing with the claim had caused Mrs P additional distress 
and inconvenience. So she recommended that Lloyds should pay Mrs P overall 
compensation of £400.
Lloyds disagreed. It said that much of the delay had been caused by Mrs P demolishing the 
wall before its loss adjuster had had a chance to inspect the damage. Thered been delays in 
getting repair estimates. It said itd told Mrs P back in May 2018 that it would only cover the 
damaged part of the wall. Itd tried to let Mrs P know about the cash settlement it was 
offering in November 2018 but couldnt get in contact with her. 
It added that Mrs P was told about the settlement in January 2019 and hadnt pursued it for a 
couple of months. So it didnt agree shed been prejudiced by any delay because it said she 
couldve made alternative arrangements then. It also added that it hadnt known Mrs P was a 
vulnerable customer until late in the claims process. Lloyds asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the cash settlement Lloyds offered for the wall was fair. But Ive 
decided it needs to pay Mrs P overall compensation of £400. Ill explain why.
Settlement for the wall
First, Ive considered the policy terms to see whats covered. It says: So long as the loss or 
damage is covered, we will decide whether to pay the cost or part of the cost of repairing or 
replacing the part of the buildings damaged (my emphasis).
The building fees and cost of removing debris section of the policy also refers to the limit of 
cover. It specifically excludes building or removal of debris costs which relate to the 
undamaged parts of the building.
So Im satisfied Lloyds liability is limited to the cost of rebuilding the part of the wall 
damaged by the falling tree. It isnt liable for any parts of the wall that werent damaged as a 
result of the impact. Ive then gone on to consider whether I think Lloyds was reasonable in 
deciding some of the damage wasnt down to the falling tree.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the damage. Its clear that because the wall 
had already been demolished, the adjuster couldnt inspect the damaged wall itself. I 
understand Mrs P demolished the wall because it was a safety risk and I can appreciate why 
she did so. But this did mean the adjusters investigation was necessarily limited to looking 
at photos.
The report said: From the insureds images submitted immediately post-loss, it is only the 
top few courses of brickwork that have been damaged by the falling tree and the rest of the 
wall remains unaffectedOnly the top 3 courses plus the soldier course are affected.
Lloyds adjuster didnt think the whole wall was damaged because of the falling tree. This 
also appears to be supported by Mrs Ps builder. Thats because his quote states: Having 
surveyed the front wall that remains intact after the storm, it appears to be very unstable 
throughout its length and in my professional opinion this is partly due to the tree falling in the 
storm but also the constant movement in moderate winds. Also the vibrations from heavy 
traffic, which has clearly increased dramatically over the years is a factor in mortar 
deterioration.
So it seems to me that Mrs Ps builder also didnt put the entirety of the wall damage down to 
the falling tree. It seems wear and tear over time were at least contributory factors.Based on the expert evidence of both the adjuster and Mrs Ps builder, I think it was fair for 
Lloyds to conclude that not all of the damage was down to the tree. So I think it was fair to 
limit settlement to those areas that could be identified as tree damaged. Lloyds appointed its 
supplier to scope the necessary repairs to those areas and offered settlement based on this 
amount, less a contracted private amount between the supplier and Lloyds.
Mrs P hasnt provided either Lloyds or us with an updated quote from her own builder 
showing the likely costs of getting the storm damaged area of the wall only removed. Without 
this evidence, it seems to me that it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the scope of works its 
supplier produced and to pay the cash settlement based on that amount.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds was reasonably entitled to limit the settlement to the area of the 
wall damaged by the falling tree. And it was fair for it to calculate the settlement due to Mrs P 
based on its suppliers quote. So Im not telling Lloyds to pay anything more towards the 
wall.
Fair compensation for distress and inconvenience
Lloyds accepts there it couldve handled the claim better and given Mrs P clearer 
information about why it wasnt paying for the whole wall to be rebuilt. So its already paid 
Mrs P £250 total compensation.
Mrs Ps wall fell in March 2018. Lloyds sent its final response to Mrs Ps complaint in August 
2019. So its clear this claim and complaint have been ongoing for a significant length of 
time. Ive carefully reviewed the claims notes. I accept that there were some periods of delay 
that Lloyds wasnt responsible for. It wasnt responsible for Mrs P not being able to find a 
builder at the outset. Or for not being aware that Mrs P was in hospital when it tried to get in 
touch about the cash settlement it would pay.
But I do think there were some periods of delay that Lloyds is responsible for. In May 2019, 
the loss adjuster identified that some of the wall had been damaged by the falling tree. I 
appreciate Lloyds wasnt able to inspect the wall post-loss because the damaged sections 
of it had been removed. But the adjuster had made a finding on the cause of damage based 
on photos. 
Lloyds took some time to validate the claim, because Mrs P hadnt had the original wall 
repaired after 2016. I can understand why it may have wanted to make further enquiries. But 
there was a gap of around three weeks after Mrs P sent in her contractors quote and she 
wasnt updated until she called in for an update.
I can also see from the notes that in late August 2018, Mrs P told Lloyds that shed been 
caring for someone and that her husband was seriously unwell. So I think Lloyds shouldve 
been aware she was experiencing a difficult time and treated her situation with more 
understanding.
Its clear that between August and October 2018, Lloyds was continuing to investigate the 
claim. It tried to call Mrs Ps contractor and it did try to call Mrs P. But I can also see that Mrs 
P needed to chase Lloyds at times for updates and it doesnt seem as if there was much 
urgency in moving things along at times. Lloyds supplier prepared a scope of works and 
sent it to Lloyds in mid-November 2018. But it took a further two weeks to try and put the 
settlement offer to Mrs P. And Mrs P didnt ultimately receive a letter setting out the offer 
until the end of January 2019. I think this couldve been sent some weeks earlier, when 
Lloyds wasnt able to contact her by phone.Given I think Lloyds knew from at least August 2018 onwards about the difficulties shed 
been experiencing and that shed been in hospital in June 2018, I do think it couldve taken 
steps to progress the claim more quickly. I think there were times where Mrs P was left 
without proper updates about what was happening with the claim. I think this wouldve 
caused her additional distress and inconvenience at an already very difficult time for her. So 
in these particular circumstances, I think the fair outcome is for Lloyds to pay total 
compensation of £400 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim caused 
her  an additional £150 on top of the £250 its already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part.
I direct Society of Lloyds to pay Mrs P total compensation of £400. It can deduct the £250 
its already paid her from this amount.
Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give
Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman