DRN-4445130
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive). He said 
Interactive has denied him access to his online trading account. He said he was not given 
any warning about this, and it has caused him to suffer investment losses. He would like to 
be compensated for this. 
What happened
Mr P held an online trading account with Interactive. He said up to 25 March 2022 he had 
been given access to his account online, using a non-valid email. Mr P said he had been 
using his non-valid email address and had been getting access to his account to trade. 
Mr P then said on 28 March 2022 he had tried to log in but wasnt given access. He said he 
tried many times to do so. He said he needed to gain access to his account as he wanted to 
quickly react and cancel a pending open limit sell order in Polymetal shares. He said he also 
had other potential trades that he was looking to react to. 
Mr P said after trying several times to log in, he then called Interactive to try and cancel the 
pending order but was told that it had already executed it and his shares had been sold. Mr 
P said because of not been given access to his account, he suffered investment losses on 
his Polymetal shares and with other potential trades that he was looking to react to. He 
complained to Interactive about this. 
Interactive said in response that it carried out maintenance over the weekend beginning 26 
March 2022 and as part of this it had improved the security on its website. This meant that 
any accounts holding a non-valid email address were unable to gain access, including Mr P 
and his account. 
Interactive said Mr P had placed a limit order and he then gave them a call to cancel it but 
did so two hours after they had executed it. It said it couldnt cancel or reverse it. Interactive 
said Mr P was not at any stage out of the market when his online access was restricted. It 
said he was able to place any trades he wanted by phoning them up. It said he did not take 
this option up when he found out he could not log into his account. Interactive offered £250 
compensation for issues with its customer service that it said he suffered trying to chase up 
his complaint.
Mr G was not happy with Businesss response. He said the root cause or primary aspect of 
his complaint is that Interactive denied access to his online trading account without giving 
him any advance warning or notice. He said this caused him financial loss, due to 
Interactives negligence. He said instead of addressing this, all conclusions so far have been 
about actions he could have taken after already been denied access to his account.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 September 2023. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Interactive denying him access to his account. I 
will explain why.
Mr P said he had held his account with Interactive for many years and part of the reason 
why he traded using its platform in the first place was because he could open an account 
using a non-valid email. So, from the outset Mr P used a non-valid email address to gain 
access to his trading account. He said in 2018, Interactive tried to update his account by 
requiring him to have a valid email address, but after a discussion it allowed him to update 
his details using a non-valid email address again. He said Interactive were aware that he 
was using a non-valid email address and accepted this. He said he was able to gain access 
using his non-valid email address up until the weekend of 26 / 27 March 2022, when 
Interactive updated its security, with non-valid emails no longer being able to work.
I can see that Mr P having a non-valid email, is the reason why he couldnt gain access on 
28 March 2022 to his online account. Interactive updated its system requirements over the 
weekend and Mr P was unable to gain access after it had done this as he didnt hold a valid 
email address. It is not in dispute between the parties that this is what happened. 
Mr P has said his main dispute with Interactive is that he wasnt given any warning about 
not being able to access his account online. He said he had a few trades that he was going 
to react to and take action on, on 28 March 2022 and also a pending order that he wanted 
to cancel. Mr P said if Interactive had given him a warning about the security update it 
carried out, that he would have been able to do things differently. He said he wouldve taken 
steps to cancel his pending order and carry out his trades. 
Mr P has explained in detail that if he was given prior warning by Interactive that he 
wouldnt be able to gain access to his account online, he would have immediately phoned 
Interactive on 28 March 2022 and cancelled his pending order as well as take action with 
other trades. He said, as it didnt warn him about the security upgrade, that he spent time 
on that morning instead trying to access his account and this led to his pending instruction 
being executed and him missing carrying out trades. He said it was through Interactives 
negligence that this happened. 
Interactive on the other hand has said Mr P could have phoned it and cancelled the pending 
order and carried out any trades he wanted to. It said he could have still used its services. I 
have looked into this and can see within the terms of Mr Ps account the following under the 
heading orders:
3.2: You may only place orders on our website, by telephone or by using our trading 
apps.
3.3: We will use reasonable endeavours to ensure our website is available for 
training online and our trading apps are available for trading. However, we do not 
promise that access to either our website or online trading will always be available.
3.4: If you are unable to access our website to trade online or through our trading 
apps, you may telephone us to place an order. 
After reading the terms given above, I can see that Interactive has not guaranteed that Mr P 
would be able to always access his trading account online. It has stated that in times that he 
cant obtain access that he would be able to phone them to place an order. 
In relation to Mr Ps complaint, I am currently minded to conclude that he could have 
contacted Interactive on the phone to cancel the pending order and make any trades that 
he wanted to, when he found out that he couldnt get access to his online account. Mr P said that if he had been given a warning by Interactive earlier about the security 
upgrade then he would have acted differently and called it to cancel the pending order. I 
acknowledge Mr Ps point here, but I think he could have contacted Interactive anyway, 
when he realised, he couldnt gain access to his online account. Mr P has said he had 
planned to cancel his pending order when the markets opened and thats why he was 
logging on to his account. So, I can see that this was a priority for him to action. I can see 
that he could have done so regardless of whether he received a warning from Interactive or 
not. 
Mr P said he didnt phone Interactive because he made wrong decisions and spent his time 
trying to get access to his online account. Again, I acknowledge what Mr P has said here, 
but I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude that Interactive were responsible 
for this. Instead, I think Mr P did have a choice to cancel his pending order in time if he 
picked up the phone and called Interactive once he realised, he couldnt get into his account 
online.  
Mr P has said he wouldnt have provided a valid email address to Interactive, at any point in 
time. So, I cant see that from the point Interactive carried out its security update, that Mr P 
would have been able to carry out any trades online, regardless of how much warning he 
had received from it. So, if Mr P had been given warnings and notice from Interactive then 
all Mr P could have done differently would be to use the phone service to carry out the 
instructions that he wanted to make. And as I have already concluded he could have done 
this from the moment he realised he couldnt get access to his account anyway.  
I can see that Mr P mustve had a frustrating experience trying to gain access to his account 
on 28 March 2022. He said he had tried several times to do so. That said, I think on 
balance, Mr P would have been aware that he could also carry out his instruction on the 
phone, and what he wanted to do was time sensitive. Interactive has explained that Mr P 
could have contacted it sooner to cancel the pending order. So, as Mr P had an alternative 
way that he could have carried out his instruction, and he more likely than not was aware he 
could do this, I dont think I can say Interactive has done anything wrong here or are 
responsible for any failings. 
Finally, Mr P has described his experiences with Interactive in trying to deal with his 
complaint. Interactive has offered Mr P £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
I think Interactives offer to Mr P is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint, and like awards I have given for the customer service issues Mr P has 
described.  
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P, and I acknowledge the strength 
of his feelings in the submissions provided. But based on everything I have read and the 
findings I have given, I dont currently uphold his complaint about not being able to get 
access to his online account.  
Interactive has offered to pay Mr P £250 for distress and inconvenience due to customer 
service issues he has experiences. I think this offer is fair and reasonable.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Interactive did not responded by the deadline I set. It has asked for updates on a few 
occasions since then.Mr P asked for an extension to the deadline I set. He then responded on 28 October 
2023 before the extended deadline and submitted a lengthy response. I have 
summarised what I think are the relevant points from this below.  He said:
Interactive breached a duty of care towards him by failing to notify him that it 
intended to permanently deny him online access to his account, causing him 
huge financial loss and harm.
He reviewed interactives terms and s16 clearly states it is required to give notice 
in advance of changes in technology or an introduction of new and improved 
systems. Interactive breached its own terms by not giving clear advanced notice 
of its system upgrade. 
If he had been given a warning, he wouldve not provided a valid email address. 
But he would have contacted Interactive over the phone immediately and carried 
out his trades or cancelled them.
He didnt act immediately to call interactive once he saw he couldnt get access. 
This is because he was not given any advanced warning and because of 
misleading statements issued by Interactive before and during him not being able 
to gain access. He said these statements created a period of ambiguity and 
delayed him from taking action. 
There were several times where he did call Interactive and it failed to explain 
what had happened, giving him false hope that he would be able to gain access 
online. 
He regards parts 10a and 11 of his previous submission to be relevant to this 
complaint. They are regarding his struggle to get Interactive to issue a third final 
decision letter for this complaint. 
He thinks Interactive has been negligent and are responsible for investment 
losses that he has incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the latest submissions from Mr P carefully. Due to the length of Mr Ps 
submission and the number of points he made within it, I wont be responding to all of 
them. Instead, I have focussed on what I think is relevant to his main complaint, that is that 
Interactive has denied him having access to his online account and that it didnt warn him 
about this.
Mr P has mentioned s16 of the terms and conditions associated with the account he holds 
with Interactive. He has said this term states that Interactive is required to give notice in 
relation to any changes in technology or an introduction or new and improved systems. 
I have read through the terms Mr P has referred to and can see these relate to any 
variation or change in the existing terms given by Interactive. I dont think that is what has 
happened here though. Interactive said it carried out a security upgrade on its system. Ive not seen anything that would suggest to me that Interactive changed or varied its terms. 
Rather, its security upgrade was in relation to its existing terms. So, on balance, I dont 
think it has breached its own terms as Mr P has suggested it has.
Mr P has made several comments about what happened once he found out he was unable 
to log on. He has explained why he feels he didnt phone Interactive straight away to 
cancel his pending order or carry out other trades. He has said this is because Interactive 
provided misleading statements both before and at the time he couldnt log on. He said 
these statements along with a lack of a warning beforehand created a period of ambiguity. I 
acknowledge what Mr P is saying here. But I still think he couldve contacted Interactive 
anyway, when he realised, he couldnt gain access to his account. Again, I can see that 
cancelling the pending order was a priority for Mr P and he could have done this whether 
he had received a warning from Interactive or not. And regardless of the statements that Mr 
P said he received from Interactive, Mr P could have also carried out any trade he wanted 
to by phoning Interactive at any stage.  
I have read Mr Ps previous submission again and parts 10a and 11 that he says forms part 
of this complaint. I acknowledge the point that he had made that 10a and 11 are in relation to 
what has happened in this complaint. However, I would like to make clear that the reason I 
havent looked into the additional complaint points raised by Mr P in his previous submission 
under points 10-13, is that it wouldnt be fair on either party if I did so. This is because all the 
issues raised by Mr P within 10-13 including those in 10a and 11, have not formed part of 
this complaint up to now. So Interactive has not submitted anything in relation to these 
complaint points and our investigator has not looked into them either. So, it would not be fair 
for me to look at them and make a decision at this late stage. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Mr P can raise a separate complaint about any of the issues he has raised in 
points 10-13 if he wishes to.
In summary, I am satisfied Mr P would have been aware that he could also carry out any 
instruction that he wanted to carry out on the phone. So, as Mr P had an alternative way 
that he could have carried out his instructions, and he more likely than not was aware he 
could do this, I dont think I can say Interactive are responsible for any failings here with 
regards to what Mr P has described as his investment losses. I think Mr P could have 
cancelled or given orders at the times he wanted to do so. 
Finally, as I said within my provisional decision, Interactive has offered Mr P £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think Interactives offer to Mr P is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint, and like awards I have given for the 
customer service issues Mr P has described.  
My final decision
Interactive Investor Services Limited has already made an offer to Mr P to pay £250 to settle 
the complaint. I think its offer is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman