DRN-3802997
The complaint
Mr C is represented. He says Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable 
advice in 2017 to switch from the Defined Contributions Pension (the pension) he had to a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (the SIPP). His representative says Portal conducted itself 
in breach of regulations and that the switch was unsuitable mainly because: 
Portal failed to conduct adequate assessments of Mr Cs investor and risk profiles, 
and failed to properly assess the suitability of its recommendation to him.
The recommendation mismatched Mr Cs investment inexperience, his inability and 
unwillingness to risk the loss of capital in his pension arrangements, his lack of 
capacity for such loss, his financial circumstances at the time and his objectives.
Mr C seeks compensation for financial loss. Portal disputes his claim. It says he sought a 
pension review at the time; that there is evidence of its fact-finding on him, his profile and 
objectives being properly conducted at the time; that the SIPP matched his objective for tax 
free cash and flexibility in/control over his pension investments; that the SIPP and the 
underlying investments recommended for it also matched his overall investor profile; that the 
SIPPs costs (and cost of advice and of the switch) and its risks were disclosed to him at the 
time of advice; that he was repeatedly informed he was under no obligation to make the 
switch; and that it did not breach regulations.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and agreed with Mr Cs claim.
In terms of his personal profile, she noted that Mr C was around 12 years from retirement at 
the time of advice; that he was married with non-dependent children; that he was employed 
but was without disposable income and was without savings; that he owned his home jointly 
with his wife but had an outstanding mortgage of around £70,000 and an outstanding debt(s) 
of around £4,300; and that he had life cover and an occupational pension, but details of the 
latter were not documented at the time of advice.
The investigator also noted that Mr Cs objective to access tax free cash was confirmed at 
the time, however it was expressly qualified as not being a vital objective for him and not 
being that important, because he did not really need the money and he was prepared to 
proceed only in the interest of his long term needs and if the costs were moderate. She did 
not find any record that gaining flexibility in and control over his pensions investments were 
parts of his objective at the time.
For the following main reasons, the investigator found that the switch was unsuitable:
Mr C had a protected tax-free cash feature in the pension, which allowed him to 
withdraw more than the usual 25% cash value (and, instead, up to 32.15%) from the 
pension tax free. This was a valuable feature that was lost in the switch and not 
matched in the SIPP.
Based on available evidence, it is unclear how Portal assessed Mr Cs risk profile 
and capacity for loss. However, the same evidence suggests that the moderately 
cautious risk profile he was given was correct, but in terms of his financial capacity 
Portal did not address the need he would have for income in retirement especially 
because he had no savings or disposable income and details of his occupational 
pension were missing.
The cost of the switch is another unsuitable factor. The cost of advice was over 
£5,000 and the Annual Management Charge (AMC) for the SIPPs funds was 
between 0.44% and 0.4%, which was more than the AMC of 0.35% for the pensions 
funds. Furthermore, there were a 1% ongoing advice fee and additional charges (not 
disclosed in the recommendation) associated with the SIPPs funds. Overall, the 
SIPP was more expensive for Mr C.
The increase in costs does not appear to have been matched or offset by the SIPPs 
potential for growth. Portal failed to conduct a performance comparison between the 
SIPP and the pension, which it ought to have done. However, there is evidence that 
the average performance of the pensions funds over the preceding three years was 
10.8% and that the average performance of the SIPPs funds over the preceding five 
years was 9.90%. These are not direct comparisons and past performances do not 
guarantee future performances, but this evidence suggests that performance 
potential was similar between both, so the higher costs in the SIPP were not justified 
by better potential performance from it.
The investigator also found that Mr C was an inexperienced investor who relied on Portal for 
advice, so it is unlikely that he would have conducted the switch but for Portals unsuitable 
recommendation. She concluded that the complaint should be upheld, that redress for 
financial loss should calculated and paid to Mr C, and that he should also be paid £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused him. Mr Cs representative 
acknowledged receipt of the investigators view. Portal does not appear to have responded 
to the view. The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint alleges unsuitability of pension investment advice. Portal will be aware of 
its regulatory obligation  presently and as it was in 2017  to ensure that, in the course of 
conducting the regulated activity of advising on investments (which includes pensions and 
pension based investments), its advice was/is suitable for the client. This is not in dispute. 
Portals complaint response acknowledges this responsibility, but it rejects the claim that it 
gave unsuitable advice to Mr C. Instead, it says its recommendation to him to switch from 
the pension to the SIPP was suitable.
There are key elements to consider in terms of the suitability (or otherwise) of a 
recommended investment. An investors overall profile at the time of the recommendation is 
one, and this mainly relates to his/her objective(s), attitude to risk (ATR), investment 
experience, financial circumstances and affordability status (including capacity for loss); 
then, it is important to assess whether (or not), on balance, the investors profile was 
properly determined between the investor and the adviser; then is the question of whether 
(or not), on balance, the advisers recommendation matched, or was suitable for, the 
investors profile; and then an important concluding consideration is whether (or not), on 
balance, the investor was properly informed about the nature of the recommended investment (including and/or especially its costs and risks) and about the reasons why the 
adviser considered it to be suitable.
It is common for documents from around the time of advice, such as fact-finds, illustrations, 
suitability assessment reports, correspondence and application forms, to serve as evidence 
that helps to determine the elements mentioned above.
In the present case, there is a fact-find and ATR document that was completed for Mr C on 
11 April 2017. It confirms that Portal was conducting its first business with him and it 
includes details of his personal profile  as summarised by the investigator and as I reflected 
above. It also includes other personal information about him, which I will not mention in this 
decision, in order to avoid breaching his anonymity when this decision is published. 
Nevertheless, I assure both parties that I have taken on board all personal information 
shared in this document. 
Income was not part of his objective, but releasing tax-free cash was of some interest to him. 
However, the qualification that the investigator highlighted is indeed shown in this document. 
In other words, it does not appear that Mr C was determined to release tax free cash from 
his pension arrangement, instead it appears to have been an option he was prepared to 
explore so long as the cost was not unduly detrimental and so long as the long term interest 
of his pension arrangement was not unduly compromised. The document essentially 
confirms this and it refers to what he would use the cash for, but none of those purposes 
appear to have been imminent, serious or urgent. 
As noted by the investigator, there is no evidence in this document that control over and 
flexibility in his pensions investments were objectives for Mr C. I address Portals suitability 
report below, but it is worth mentioning now that the same applies to report and that the 
report also refers, only, to releasing tax free cash as Mr Cs interest. For the reasons given 
above, accessing such cash appears to have been more of an optional interest for him than 
an objective.
The fact-find confirms Mr Cs financial circumstances as summarised by the investigator. It 
shows that he had no disposable income and no savings, and there is a section in which he 
confirmed the unlikelihood that his income and expenditure will change and that it will be 
difficult to reduce the latter. The document acknowledges the loss of the pensions enhanced 
tax-free cash feature in the event of a switch, but it says Mr C was prepared to forego it in 
the switch in order to gain access to the tax fee cash and to reinvest the residual into a 
drawdown (a facility that the pension did not have). The document then concludes with the 
ATR assessment, which said Mr C was moderately cautious (3 to 6 between a scale of 0 to 
14) and that he agreed with this assessment.
On balance, I do not consider that Mr C was prepared to forego the pensions enhanced tax-
free feature on the basis presented in this document. Portals claim is that he was 
determined to access the tax-free cash, but I have already noted evidence that such was not 
quite the case. He was interested in the option of doing so if the circumstances were right (if 
it could be done without undue impact on his pension and detrimental costs), but it is 
expressly stated in the document that he did not need the money and the expenditure he 
contemplated allocating the money to was not imminent, serious or urgent. Furthermore, the 
idea that a drawdown facility played any role in his considerations appears to be baseless, 
given that the fact-find document says he had no imminent desire or need for income from 
the pension. Overall, it must also be said that even if he said he was prepared to forego the 
enhanced tax-free cash feature for such reasons  which, I consider, he probably did not say 
 the responsibility remained with Portal to advise him on whether (or not) that was suitable 
for him and in his best interests. Foregoing such a valuable feature in order to access tax free cash that he did not need at 
the time and/or in order to have a drawdown facility that was not imminently necessary at the 
time was neither suitable for Mr C nor in his best interest. Portals suitability report did not 
advise him of this, instead it did the opposite and recommended the switch for these same 
reasons. Portal has also referred to better flexibility in and control over investments in the 
SIPP, but as I said above there is no evidence that Mr C had such objectives at the time of 
advice.
The suitability report includes information about the SIPP, about its funds, risk warnings and 
information about costs associated with Portals advice, the switch and the SIPP/its funds. 
However, Portal will be aware that such disclosures alone did not discharge its overall 
responsibility to ensure its advice was suitable for Mr C. In other words, despite these 
disclosures it still had to properly assess, and advice on, whether (or not) the switch and 
SIPP were suitable for him  and it still had to make a recommendation in this respect.
In addition to the unjustified and unsuitable loss of the pensions enhanced tax-free cash 
feature, Portals recommendation also meant Mr C had a SIPP that was unsuitably more 
expensive (than the pension) for him without any co-related increased prospects of better 
performance. I endorse and echo the investigators findings and reasoning in this respect. 
The SIPPs funds AMC was higher than that for the pension, there were additional 
associated costs in the SIPP and there was no evidence at the time to show that its funds 
had the potential for better performance than those in the pension. 
When all of the above is viewed in the context of the switch taking place because of an 
alleged objective that was probably not really an objective  for the reasons I have 
addressed  and on the basis of accessing tax-free cash that Mr C expressly confirmed he 
did not need at the time, the unsuitability of Portals advice is sufficiently established. There 
is evidence to suggest that the SIPPs funds were somewhat riskier than those in the 
pension and that he did not have the capacity to cope with a higher risk of losses, both of 
which would compound the unsuitability of the recommended switch.
Overall, on balance and for all the above reasons, I find that Mr C should not have been 
advised to switch away from the pension he previously had, that Portals recommendation of 
the switch and SIPP was unsuitable and that Mr Cs complaint is upheld. Like the 
investigator said, available evidence supports the conclusion that Mr C relied on Portals 
advice and would probably not have switched from the pension if Portal did not advise him 
to. He is entitled to redress for financial loss, if any, he has incurred as a result, and in the 
next section I order Portal to calculate and pay such redress. In addition, I also agree with 
the investigators finding that Mr C should receive from Portal £250 in compensation for the 
trouble, distress and inconvenience the complaint matter has caused him.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr C as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had not 
switched from his pension to the SIPP. On balance, and for the reasons addressed above, I 
consider that he would probably have retained the pension he previously had, but for Portals 
advice. My orders to Portal are below and they represent a fair compromise on which Mr C 
can be compensated. Mr C is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with Portal 
to provide it with all information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, 
which it does not already have.
What must Portal do?To compensate Mr C fairly, Portal must:
Calculate the notional loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the switch to the 
SIPP. Portal should obtain, from the pensions provider, the notional value of his 
previous pension, as of the date of settlement and as if the pension had not been 
switched to the SIPP. If that is obtainable it must regard that notional value as fair 
value. If the previous provider is unable to calculate or provide that notional value, 
Portal must determine a fair value for Mr Cs pension investments, but for the switch, 
using a benchmark. That benchmark is as follows  for half the investments the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index); and for the other half the 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would 
be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without 
risk to his capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is made 
up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. I consider that Mr Cs moderately cautious ATR was in 
between these measures, in the sense that he was prepared to take a small level of 
risk to attain his investment objectives. As such, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put him into that position. It does not mean he wouldve invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in a kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he 
could have obtained from pension investments suited to his profile.
Portal must then calculate the current value, as of the date of settlement, of Mr Cs 
SIPP, including investments and any cash held. This is actual value. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference is a loss and it must be 
paid to Mr C in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
In addition, Portal must take into account and reflect in its calculations the tax-free 
cash Mr C has received and any other relevant cash withdrawal from the SIPP, and 
subtract this within its calculation of loss. Portals calculation of redress must also 
reflect Mr Cs loss of the protected enhanced tax-free cash feature he had in the 
pension. The investigator recommended that Portal should arrange payment to Mr C, 
withdrawn from the SIPP, of a sum amounting to 7.15% of the transfer value in April 
2017  this being the difference between the tax-free cash he was able to withdraw 
from the switch and the protected enhanced tax-free cash he would have been 
entitled to withdraw from the pension  and to refund him any tax charges he incurs 
from the SIPP withdrawal. If Mr C agrees to this, I order Portal to do the same and 
effect the arrangement. Otherwise, I order Portal to calculate the value of the tax 
refund it would have paid to him under the arrangement and to pay that value to him 
in settlement of this aspect.
Portal must pay all compensation into Mr Cs SIPP, to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his SIPP if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the compensation cannot be paid 
into his SIPP, pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Portal must pay Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble, distress and inconvenience 
the complaint matter has caused him.
Portal must provide Mr C with a calculation of all the above in a clear and simple 
format. 
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Cs case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2017) and 
the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2021), so the 
applicable compensation limit would be £160,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I order Portal Financial Services 
LLP to calculate and pay redress and compensation to him as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman