DRN-3047361
The complaint
Mr E complains on behalf of a limited company, A, that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted access 
to As accounts. And hed like compensation for the impact caused. 
What happened
Mr E is a director of A. 
A had a business bank account with HSBC.  Mr E is also complaining about the restriction 
and closure of his personal account with HSBC  Ill be considering this case in a separate 
decision. 
On the 5 July 2019 A attempted an international transfer using the reference IRAN. 
HSBC contacted Mr E to ask questions about the payment and his business activities. And 
Mr E responded, on behalf of A, on the 8 July 2019. In Mr Es response he explained that A 
trades solely with Iran and has done so for almost 25 years. HSBC contacted Mr E for 
further details about his trading arrangements, however they werent satisfied with his 
response. And on the 22 July 2019 HSBC placed a restriction on As account and started 
carrying out a review. On the 2 August 2019 the bank wrote to A and asked them to provide 
alternative details to transfer out As funds, and on the 4 September 2019 they gave A 
2 months notice of the account closure. 
Mr E complained to HSBC that theyd restricted access to As account, and hed been 
trading with Iran for over 20 years without the bank raising any concerns. HSBC reviewed 
As complaint, but concluded theyd followed the terms and conditions of his account. 
Mr E wasnt happy with HSBCs response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought that 
HSBC acted fairly in restricting As access to its account. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In summary he said:
He doesnt have an issue with HSBC closing his business account.
However he thinks its unfair that his business account was blocked for a long time 
which negatively impacted on his income. 
This caused him financial hardship and hed like compensation for the impact. 
As Mr E, on behalf of A, didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate that Mr E is unhappy that restrictions were placed on As account 
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations. Mr E agreed to this term as a customer and its a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that HSBC were acting in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed 
A's account. 
Ive also checked the terms and conditions of As account. In summary, section 19 states 
that HSBC can block As use of any payment device if they believe its necessary for three 
reasons including security concerns. And Im satisfied that HSBC have evidence they had 
legitimate concerns here that they might breach their legal and regulatory obligations. 
Therefore, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it initially blocked As account and 
didnt allow him access to his funds.
Ive considered the length of time As account was blocked for. And HSBCs actions when 
releasing As funds. As account was first restricted on the 24 July 2019, and the bank 
provided Mr E with the opportunity to give alternative payment details on the 2 August 2019. 
HSBCs records show they received confirmation of the new bank details on the 
21 August 2019. These funds were released to A on the 4 September 2019  which Im 
satisfied was within the banks 10 working day timescale for release of funds. 
Mr E has argued that the restriction of his bank account caused him financial hardship. 
However, for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly in 
restricting access to As account. I realise this will disappoint Mr E however it follows that I 
dont think any compensation is due to A. 
Im aware that Mr E isnt questioning HSBCs decision to close As bank account, however 
for completeness Ive reviewed HSBCs actions when carrying out the closure. And Id like to 
reassure Mr E that Im satisfied the bank have followed their terms and conditions here. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman