DRN-4433307
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) unfairly handled her claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a timeshare product she 
purchased using her credit card.   
What happened
On 9 March 2015 Miss M says she agreed to purchase a timeshare product with a business 
who Ill refer to as R. She says she funded payment for the product(s) purchased using a 
credit card issued by BoS in her personal name.
On 9 March 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Miss M submitted a claim 
to BoS under section 75 of the CCA (S75). The PR alleged that R had misrepresented the 
timeshare product to Miss S, having told her, [] she would have excellent holidays at the 
time of her choosing. The PR said Miss M was later advised with the number of points 
purchased she was unable to access any holidays. And because R didnt provide the 
product they were contracted to, the PR thought they had also breached the contract. The 
PR also alleged that Miss M was pressured in to entering the agreement.
As part of the claim, the PR referenced verbal misrepresentations made by representatives 
of another company who Ill refer to as business I.
In response, BoS said they couldnt see that a S75 claim had been raised for Miss M and 
they would require a letter of authorisation from her before they could review the claim 
submitted by the PR. BoS went on to say that the claim needed to be raised with their S75 
team and not through their complaints process. BoS said, the statute of limitations in the UK 
is six years (five in Scotland) so this is the deadline you have to work to if you were to 
pursue a Section 75 claim through the courts.
The PR didnt accept BoSs response, so referred Miss Ss complaint to this service. One of 
this services investigators considered all the evidence and information provided. In doing so, 
they didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. Our investigator thought that Scottish 
Law applied to Miss Ms credit card agreement. And because of that, Miss M had five years 
to make her claim. As the claim was made after five years, our investigator thought it had 
been brought too late. The investigator also didnt find any evidence to support the claim for 
breach of contract.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators findings. So, the PR asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. Having considered all the evidence and 
information, whilst I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our investigator, I 
considered some issues which I dont feel were previously fully addressed. So, I issued a 
provisional decision on 4 October 2023 asking each party to provide any new relevant 
comments, information or evidence for me to consider before I issue a final decision 
In my provisional decision I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
1 The FCAs Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP)
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
Where payment is made by Miss M using a credit card under a pre-existing credit 
card agreement, it possible that S75 applies  subject to any limitations and 
restrictions. So, this means that Miss M may be afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like her under those provisions. As a result, Ive taken this section into 
account together with any other relevant sections of the CCA when deciding whats 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe BoSs treatment of Miss Ms 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While 
the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, 
we do not provide a legal service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. 
What Miss Ms claim made in time?
BoS have referred this service to the credit agreement that applies to Miss Ms credit 
card account with them. In particular, they believe that the limitation timescale that 
applies to any claim under S75 is five years under Scottish law2, due to Miss Ms 
place of residency. 
A claim under S75 is a like claim. In other words, where Miss M believes she has a 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier, those 
provisions enable her to make a like claim against BoS. The timescales and rules 
that apply will normally be governed by the legal jurisdiction that applies to the 
underlying transaction and agreement  in this case, the timeshare purchase 
agreement. So, its possible that the timescales under Scottish law dont necessarily 
apply here. 
However, in view of my findings below, I dont think I need to make a formal finding 
on this aspect.
Does Miss M have a valid claim under S75?
S75(1) says, If the debtor [here thats Miss M] under a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction 
financed by the agreement any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor (emphasis added). 
In order to link any credit card payment made to the timeshare product transaction 
here, I would need to see evidence of what that payment specifically related to. And 
importantly, that it was contractually linked to the timeshare product transaction.
The claim submitted by the PR refers to an amount of £2,300. Ive seen various 
documents from the time of the sale which appear to reference different products and 
benefits as supplied to Miss M by different parties and businesses at that time. In 
particular. There is a document headed Credit/Debit Card Authorisation issued by a 
business who Ill refer to as business S. It includes a payment schedule requiring 
2 The Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973payments of £575 to be made on 20 April, May, June and July 2015  totalling 
£2,300. The document also quotes the credit card number which relates to Miss Ms 
account with BoS. 
Ive also seen copies of Miss Ms credit card statements with BoS covering the period 
in question. Having reviewed these, I cant see any evidence that Miss M used her 
BoS credit card to make any of the payments scheduled within the Credit/Debit Card 
Authorisation document  whether to R or business S. 
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale. So, 
Ive thought about this alongside the evidence available. Although not determinative 
of the matter, I havent seen any documentation which supports the claim made by 
the PR for £2,300. Thats because I cant reasonably conclude that Miss M did make 
payments totalling £2,300 to R using her BoS credit card to purchase the timeshare 
product in question.
However, I have seen a payment from Miss Ms credit card account with BoS dated 9 
March 2015 (the date of the purchase) for £866.48 (€1,208.25) to a business who Ill 
refer to as business M. The sum of €1,208.25 is referred to within a separate 
membership application document for another product which, it appears, was 
purchased from business M at the same time. But this doesnt appear to form part of 
the claim submitted by the PR and doesnt appear to relate to a service or product 
specifically supplied by R.
The Debtor-Creditor-Supplier (DCS) relationship 
As Ive referenced above, a valid DCS agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
S75. The claim submitted by the PR refers to a timeshare product with R that they 
allege was miss sold by R. They have also made a claim for breach of contract by R. 
But Ive found no evidence of any payment being made to that company using Miss 
Ms credit card with BoS. The only payment Ive found was to business M  as 
referred to above.
The High Courts judgment in the case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC 
(2022) considered a scenario, with similar circumstances, in order to establish the 
validity of the DCS relationship in that case. However, given the facts and 
circumstances of this complaint and my overall outcome with those in mind, I dont 
think its necessary to make a formal finding of the DCS arrangement for the purpose 
of this decision. Thats because I dont think Miss M has a valid claim under S75 
anyway.
Summary
Having considered everything thats been said and provided, Ive been unable to 
establish that theres a valid claim to be made under S75. Because of that, I cant 
currently conclude that BoSs failure to uphold Miss Ms claim was ultimately unfair or 
unreasonable. So, I dont currently intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS have confirmed theyve nothing further to add in response to my provisional findings. 
The PR havent responded to my provisional decision. However, Miss M has been in contact 
with this service to seek clarification on certain aspects.
In particular, she told this service that the payments relating to the amount of £2,300 were 
made using a different credit card issued by another financial business. So, it seems clear 
that the transaction referred to in the PRs claim wasnt actually one that involved BoS.Miss M went on to explain that the payment of £866.48 which was made using her BoS 
credit card was part of the same transaction  essentially a deposit payment. She said that 
this and the amount of £2,300 all related to the timeshare purchase she made. But as Ive 
already explained in my provisional findings, the different payments appear to have been 
made to different parties. This suggests they may be separate transactions.
I asked that Mr M provide documentary evidence to show that the payments were all related 
to the timeshare purchase in March 2015. Preferably in the form of a purchase agreement. 
And also, that the contract was with one particular supplier rather than across different 
suppliers. In other words, part of a single purchase contract. 
Miss M has provided copies of two documents. The first is entitled Purchaser details & 
application for membership of the scheme. This document refers to membership of a 
scheme operated by business S  not R as detailed in the claim submitted by the PR. 
Furthermore, it clearly shows the purchase price of the membership as being £2,300. And 
Miss M has confirmed, payments towards this amount were not made using her credit card 
with BoS.
The second document appear to be the front page of a purchase agreement with business 
S. However, this makes no reference to any purchase price.
Unfortunately, that means Im unable to confidently verify what the BoS credit card 
transaction Ive seen specifically related to. And whether it was in any way linked to the 
subsequent payments totalling £2,300  the subject of the claim submitted by the PR. 
The documents provided by Miss M make no reference to a payment of £866.48 or 
€1,208.25. So, Ive been unable to establish whether the payment from Miss Ms BoS credit 
Card did, in fact, form part of the purchase price paid for the product she purchased. 
Because of that, I still dont think Miss M has demonstrated that the claim submitted is valid 
under S75. Theres simply no evidence that Miss M used her Bos Credit Card to purchase 
the timeshare product. Because of that, Im not persuaded to vary from my provisional 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman