DRN-4142912
The complaint
Mr T says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that not only should the interest and late payment charges he paid on the 
account be refunded but he also thinks the debt should be written off. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams. Mr T 
complained to J D Williams to say that the accounts shouldnt have been opened for him 
because they werent affordable. J D Williams agreed and offered to pay standard redress 
for such cases. Mr T was unhappy with the redress and referred the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator thought J D Williams had offered the standard redress and had no more to 
do. Mr T is not happy with the suggested redress and feels that his existing debts should 
be written off. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Our standard redress for an unaffordable lending case is as follows,
Putting things right  what The Business needs to do
As I dont think The Business ought to have lent The Consumer the credit, I dont think its 
fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think 
The Consumer should pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, The Business 
should:
Rework the credit removing all interest and charges that have been applied, so that 
The Consumer only needs to pay back the capital he borrowed. 
If The Consumer has paid back more than the capital he borrowed, any 
overpayments  should be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest per year* 
calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. The 
Business should also remove all adverse information regarding this credit from The 
Consumers credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, The Business should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with The Consumer for the remaining amount. 
Once The Consumer has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to 
the credit should be removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires The Business to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give The Consumer a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he 
asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do 
so after deducting the tax.
This is in a slightly different format to that used by our investigator but is the same redress. 
I think that this is the correct redress for this case. And so, I think that J D Williams should 
have put things right as detailed above. And from the submissions I have received in this 
case, I have seen insufficient evidence that they didnt. 
Mr T says he thinks that charges should have been repaid to him in the redress paid to his 
account. I have seen no evidence to support the idea that they did not.
Mr T thinks that he settled the account in 2021. J D Williams has provided data that shows 
that Mr T did make a significant repayment to his account, but that this happened in June 
2019. So, the evidence I have seen suggests that the account was not fully repaid by that 
payment as Mr T continued to make purchases on the account afterwards for a while. So, I 
think that this does not call into question the correctness of the redress calculation made by 
J D Williams. As such, J D Williams are not incorrect to have left the adverse credit 
information on Mr Ts account. And I think that Mr T has had the benefit of the goods he 
purchased. It wouldnt generally be reasonable to say that Mr T shouldnt pay the cash 
price for them. 
Our service isnt the financial services regulator, so it isnt our role to punish businesses. The 
purpose of any redress awarded should be to ensure that Mr T hasnt lost out financially as a 
result of J D Williams actions. Mr T has had much to say about the failings of J D Williams 
and I have noted his comments carefully. I have also considered that Mr T has not been able 
to provide any evidence to support his testimony. 
Having considered all the submissions made to this service in this complaint. Based on all 
the submissions made in this case, Im satisfied that the redress Ive set out ensures that Mr 
T is appropriately compensated for J D Williams making unfair lending decisions. And Ive 
seen insufficient evidence that that redress was not followed in this case. As that redress 
was offered before the case came to us, I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman