DRN-1747548
The complaint
Mr B has complains that Paypal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA has unfairly placed restrictions on 
his account and won't allow him to access his money. 
What happened
Mr B sold an item and used his Paypal account to receive payment. On 17 December 2019 
Paypal decided to review Mr B's account and asked Mr B to provide it with further 
information about his identity and account payments he'd received. Two days later, Paypal 
took the decision, having reviewed the information it had received from Mr B, to permanently 
limit access to the account. Paypal also said that Mr B couldn't withdraw the balance of the 
account for 180 days. 
Mr B complained to Paypal, he wanted access to his money and the account restriction 
removed. Paypal said that the agreement Mr B had accepted when he set up his account 
allowed it to limit access, if it had concerns over the way it had been operated. Paypal also 
said the terms allowed it to place a hold on any funds in the account for 180 days, due to the 
risk of chargebacks or payment reversals from third parties. 
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. She said the User Agreement 
allowed Paypal to take the actions it had. And, she didn't think those actions were 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B didn't agree so the case has come to me to decide. Mr B has said as well as the funds 
being released and the restrictions removed, he wants £200 in compensation for the distress 
and financial loss he's been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I won't be upholding Mr B's complaint. I'll explain why.
Paypal has explained its decision to Mr B, but has only provided limited information as to 
why its limited access to his account. I can understand why Mr B is frustrated by this as he 
can't understand specifically what he's done that has caused Paypal to take this decision or 
what potential risk is involved.
Paypal has sent us information which goes into the reasons behind its decision. I can't share 
this with Mr B as it has been provided in confidence, and I'm satisfied Paypal has raised a 
reasonable objection to it being shared. 
The terms of the User Agreement allow Paypal to suspend, block, limit or close Mr B's 
account if it believes he has engaged in what it calls a restricted activity. Having reviewed 
the information Paypal has provided, I'm satisfied it has fairly limited access to Mr B's 
account inline with the terms set out in the User Agreement. As such, I won't be asking it to 
do anything further here. Mr B is also unhappy that Paypal has held the balance of his account for 180 days. Paypal's 
terms say that it can block an account and hold funds for as long as reasonably needed to 
protect it from financial loss. In this case it has said that hold is for 180 days. Given Paypal's 
decision to permanently restrict access to the account, I don't think it has done anything 
wrong by holding the funds in line with the User Agreement. Given the length of time that 
has now passed, Mr B's funds are due to become available to him shortly. 
Mr B has said this matter has caused him distress, and he has been without money that is 
rightfully his for some time.  I don't doubt this has been a frustrating experience for Mr B, but 
as set out above, I think Paypal has acted fairly and reasonably in taking the actions it has. I 
won't therefore be awarding any compensation in this instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr B's complaint against Paypal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman