DRN-3278793
The complaint
R is a sole trader and hes unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a 
claim under his commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019, R was involved in a traffic accident with a cyclist. R says the cyclist 
crashed into the nearside front (NSF) door of his van, as he was turning left at a junction. He 
says he swapped details with the cyclist and offered them £40/£50 to fix the bicycle. 
The cyclist made a claim against Rs motor insurance policy. Aviva took over the claim and 
paid it. This resulted in a fault claim on Rs record and his no claims discount was reduced. 
And in May 2020, at renewal, Rs premium significantly increased.
R was aware of the claim and he had already complained to Aviva about the decision to pay 
it. Hed specifically asked Aviva not to. He said Aviva hadnt conducted a proper 
investigation into the circumstances of the claim. He says he wasnt given any evidence to 
support Avivas decision and when evidence was sent it was so heavily redacted it was 
useless. R says because the incident involved a cyclist, Aviva immediately made up its mind 
to pay the claim. He says he was deceived, and transcripts were tampered with. He says 
Avivas decision to just pay the claim, without any justification has ruined his life. He says 
hes lost his business and his van as a result.
An investigator looked at Rs complaint and said that based on the evidence provided, Aviva 
had made a fair and reasonable decision to pay the claim.
But R remains unhappy, and he has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I must reassure R that I thoroughly understand how strongly he feels about this
matter. I understand why he feels hes been wronged, and I appreciate how infuriating and 
incorrect R believes the settlement of the third partys claim is.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
As an insurer, it is Aviva which holds most of the risk here. Its on risk for legal costs (both its 
own and the cyclists) should the matter go to court and its on risk that the third party might 
have got a higher award, by taking the claim to court. R holds none of that risk at all, 
because under his motor policy Aviva indemnifies him against any claim  subject to it 
meeting the terms and conditions of the policy. Rs risk is potentially having his no claims 
discount (NCD) reduced and having a fault claim on his insurance record. Which, in all 
likelihood will increase his motor insurance premiums going forward (which is what 
happened).
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a clause which allows the insurer to takeover, 
defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And Avivas policy is no 
different. It says, if we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person
claiming under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our
own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy. We shall have full
discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim. When anyone 
buys a policy, they are agreeing to this term. This clause also doesnt permit a policyholder 
to block Avivas ability to settle claims as it thinks fit. 
My role and that of this service isnt to decide whether the cyclists claim was fraudulent, or 
indeed to decide whose fault the accident was. Thats a matter for a court of law to decide 
and this service isnt a court of law, its an informal dispute resolution service. So, my role 
here is to see if Aviva applied the terms and conditions of the policy to the claim 
circumstances fairly and reasonably.
The law recognises the fact that cyclists are more vulnerable in the case of an accident than 
those driving vehicles, for obvious reasons. Roundabouts and traffic lights are common 
locations for accidents involving motorists and cyclists. And as Aviva wasnt present when 
the incident happened, it would have to take into account the evidence that is available to it 
to decide liability. I would expect to see evidence such as witness accounts, any available 
CCTV, engineers reports and police reports. Generally, the motorist involved in an accident 
with a cyclist will be obliged to prove that they were not responsible, reflecting the relative 
lack of protection that a bicycle affords its rider in the event of a collision with a motorist. 
R says the claim is fraudulent and says he is being scammed. He says the cyclist knew what 
he was doing, and he believes whats happened is a crime. He says the cyclist and the 
bicycle repair shop colluded to receive an increased pay-out. He says the witness lied in his 
statement and later lied in a related case that was heard in the magistrates court. 
He says Aviva knew he was being scammed, and yet it still played a willing part in this scam. 
He says Aviva manipulated evidence and tampered with data records. He says Aviva 
deliberately deceived him and it destroyed his reputation by presuming the outcome of a 
court hearing. R says Aviva only paid the claim to save itself from an increased personal 
injury claim. He says Avivas actions have changed the course of his life, causing him undue 
stress and hardship. He says hes lost his livelihood, his van and his business because of 
Aviva. 
Id like to start by saying Aviva didnt cause this accident. I appreciate R is frustrated and 
angry with Aviva, but its only role here is to take over the claim and deal with it as per the 
policy terms and conditions. Avivas responsibility here is to decide liability and deal with the 
claim based on a fair and reasonable investigation. 
And Im satisfied Aviva conducted a fair and reasonable investigation. It took account of the 
nature and location of damage to both the bicycle and Rs vehicle. It took into account the 
testimony of an independent witness, alongside diagrams provided by both R and the cyclist. 
I can see from the file that Aviva had a number of calls with both the cyclist and R. And Ive listened to the call recording between Aviva and the independent witness. Aviva also sought 
advice from a legal liability specialist, which is what I wouldve expected it to do. 
I know R says both the cyclist and the witness lied, and Aviva shouldve done more. Maybe 
the witness did lie. But looking at the evidence as a whole, including diagrams, I can see 
why Aviva accepted the witness testimony. The balance of evidence provided favours the 
cyclist. I also note that R says he had his own witness, who had said the cyclist was in the 
wrong. But I note no details were ever provided for this witness, so we have no idea who this 
witness was. 
But even if there was no witness the best R could ever have hoped for in this particular 
situation wouldve been a 50/50 split liability decision as both parties are telling a slightly 
different version of events. This would still have been recorded as a fault claim, and Rs NCD 
wouldve still been impacted. This is because Aviva wouldnt have been able to reclaim 
100% of its outlay from a third party. 
So, based on the evidence provided and advice sought, the decision Aviva had to make was 
whether it could refute the claim strongly enough that if the matter were to go to court, it 
would win that case. And Aviva was of the view, that it was more likely it would lose. Aviva 
like all other motor insurers is required to adhere to varying pre-action protocols to sensibly 
settle cases without wasting the courts time in situations where there is no reasonable 
chance of success. Failure to do this increases the amount of legal costs a successful party 
could claim from the unsuccessful party. And as I explained above only Aviva was at risk of 
these types of costs too, not R. So, I can see why Aviva made the decision it did, based on 
the facts of the case and the evidence and advice provided. 
I sympathise with R, as hes clearly aggrieved by what happened and he clearly doesnt 
agree with the outcome. But as Ive said above its not my role nor the role of this service to 
decide if a claim was fraudulent or to decide who was at fault. My role is solely to assess if 
Aviva adhered to the terms of its policy in dealing with this matter. And I consider it did and 
did so fairly, so I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more. 
R has also questioned the high increase in premium he sustained because of what 
happened. Hes also said the bicycle repair shop submitted an inflated valuation of the 
bicycle, and he thinks this also had an impact on his premium. 
Firstly, I should explain that insurers pricing information is commercially sensitive and cant 
be shared. However, I reassure R, Ive looked at the calculations Aviva has sent, and I can 
confirm that I cant see any errors. 
I can see that Rs premium has increased mainly because of the accident being treated as a 
fault accident, hes suffered a reduced NCD, and he insured another vehicle. Outside of the 
recorded accident, I can see that Aviva made amendments to how it rated Rs address, and 
some personal information was changed. And from looking at the pricing information that 
Aviva has sent I can see that in this particular case, the cost of the claim has no bearing on 
the increase in premium. So, whether the bicycle shop inflated the claim or not, makes no 
difference to Rs premium. It looks like the fact R was involved in an accident that was 
ultimately deemed a fault accident has impacted the premiums rather than the total costs 
recorded against that claim. As such Im satisfied there were no premium errors made when 
the policy renewed.
I know R will be disappointed with the outcome in this final decision. And Im sorry to hear of 
the financial and health related strain hes been under. But for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think Aviva has made a fair and reasonable decision to pay this claim, and there are 
no errors in the renewal premium. Because of this I wont be asking Aviva to do any more. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman