DRN-2057460
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about six short term loans he took out with Western Circle Limited, trading 
as Cashfloat, (WCL), which he said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mr Hs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I shall refer below 
to all actions being taken by Mr H.
What happened
Mr H took out six short term loans with WCL between February 2018 and August 2019. The 
loans were repayable by two to four monthly instalments. All the loans have been repaid. 
A summary of the loans is shown below:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 9/2/18 26/3/18 £300
2. 26/3/18 25/5/18 £500
3. 25/5/18 24/8/18 £700
4. 24/8/18 23/11/18 £700
5. 28/4/19 25/7/19 £400
6. 24/8/19 25/9/19 £550
WCL said that it had asked Mr H for his income and expenditure. It tested Mr Hs monthly 
outgoings against statistical data. If this resulted in higher expense figures than those 
provided by him, it used the higher figures in its affordability assessment. WCL also received 
information about Mr Hs monthly credit commitments. WCL said that Mr Hs net monthly 
income of between £2,600 and £3,400 left him with sufficient funds to comfortably cover the 
agreed loan repayments without affecting his ability to pay his existing credit commitments 
and priority living expenses. WCL also said that Mr Hs outstanding indebtedness (to other 
lenders) reduced during the period of borrowing from it. According to the credit reference 
agency, Mr H had £8,917 outstanding when he applied for his first loan and only £4,745 
outstanding when he applied for his final loan. This demonstrated that Mr H was conducting 
his borrowing in a sensible and sustainable manner. WCL also said that there was a 
significant break between Loans 4 and 5 which demonstrated to it that Mr H wasnt in 
financial distress at the time. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered in its final response letter to 
refund Mr H £100 in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Mr H rejected WCLs offer.
Our adjudicators first view recommended that Mr Hs complaint about Loans 4 to 6 should 
be upheld. He said that by Loan 4, proportionate checks would most likely have shown Mr H 
was having problems managing his money. He thought that WCL would have become aware 
that Mr H had at least seven other short term loans outstanding with other lenders. So WCL
ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan 
and any subsequent loans. In addition, the information WCL provided to this service about 
Loan 5 showed Mr Hs income as £2,600 and his total expenses as £3,662. So, this loan 
was unaffordable.
WCL disagreed and responded to say that there was a significant gap between Loans 4 and 
5. Before Loan 5, it had spoken to Mr H. Mr H said that his partners income of £1,600 
should be included and that his father paid most of the household bills. Mr H said that he 
paid £200 for food and £200 for travel and he had over £500 disposable income. WCL said 
that Mr Hs borrowing was affordable and sustainable.
The adjudicator then asked WCL for its credit checks and repayment spreadsheets which 
WCL provided.
As the adjudicator had new information to consider, he issued a second view. The 
adjudicator upheld all the loans. He said that the information WCL gathered showed that    
Mr H was having problems managing his money.  The adjudicator thought that WCL saw 
that Mr H had five open short term loans showing on the credit check it completed. In these 
circumstances, he thought WCL ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay this loan  and any subsequent loans.
WCL disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that Mr H had a higher than average 
income and he was living with his parents. So it was reasonable to accept that his non-
discretionary spending was low. There was a significant break in lending between Loans 4 
and 5. It had spoken to Mr H to confirm his income and expenses before Loan 5 as an 
additional check. The loans were paid on time or early. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr H took out his loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
WCL needed to check that Mr H could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Mr H being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks WCL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr H would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). WCL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr H. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr H declared his monthly income as between £2,600 and £3,400 and his 
declared expenditure ranged from £380 to £3,662. 
I also note that WCL checked Mr Hs credit file before agreeing to the loans. WCL has 
provided this service with a copy of its credit checks. I shall refer to these below. 
Mr H has also provided us with his credit report which covers Loans 1 to 5. I note that this 
refers to numerous loans and I shall refer to this below.
Mr H needed to make two monthly loan repayments on Loan 1 with a highest repayment of 
£186.62. The repayment amounts for Loan 1 mightve looked affordable on the figures Mr H 
gave WCL. But what Mr H had told WCL about his financial situation was clearly at odds with 
the information WCL saw on its credit checks.  
I note that WCLs credit checks before Loan 1 showed that Mr H had 14 active accounts. 
The total credit balance amounted to £8,917. I can see that there were four short term loans 
outstanding and numerous unsecured loans. Some of these may have also been short term 
loans. I think the large amount of borrowing and the high number of short term loans might 
have caused WCL some concerns and shouldve made it realise that it looked like Mr H was 
having problems managing his money.
Although WCL didnt need to do full checks when Loan 1 was arranged, it did need to act on 
the information it had.  It was aware that Mr H was already committed to repaying a 
significant portion of his income to other short term loans. So, there was a real risk that Mr H 
wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 1. At the very least I think the information 
it saw should have prompted a responsible lender to do further checks before lending. Had 
WCL done so, it would have become aware that Mr H had at least another four short term 
loans which werent shown on its credit checks. I have seen these on Mr Hs own credit 
report. So as a responsible lender, I dont think WCL should have given Loan 1 to Mr H.
Loan 2 was taken out on the day Loan 1 was repaid. The loan amount on Loan 2 had 
increased and the repayment amounts had almost doubled. I think this might have caused 
WCL some concerns. Again, the repayment amounts for Loan 2 mightve looked affordable 
on the figures Mr H gave WCL. But again, Mr Hs declared loan and credit commitments 
were very different from the information WCL saw on its credit checks.  Mr Hs total credit 
balance had increased to £9,377 and he now had 16 active accounts with 14 opened in the 
previous six months. And I think WCL should have been aware from its checks that at least 
five of the numerous commitments shown on the credit checks were short term loans. This 
not only called into question the rest of the income and expenses Mr H had declared but in 
itself suggests that Mr H was still likely finding it difficult to manage his money. 
In these circumstances I think WCL ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr H would 
have been able to sustainably repay Loan 2. And again, I think the information it saw should 
have prompted a responsible lender to do further checks before lending. Had WCL done so, 
it would have become aware that Mr H had at least another four short term loans which 
werent shown on its credit checks. I have seen these on Mr Hs own credit report. So as a 
responsible lender, I dont think WCL should have given Loan 2.
The situation shown in WCLs credit checks didnt improve for Loans 3 and 4. In addition, the 
amounts borrowed on Loans 3 and 4 were larger than WCLs earlier loans and Mr H 
borrowed each of his new loans on the days he repaid his previous loan. I think all this ought 
to have shown WCL that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably, and it was 
likely that Mr H was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances. . In these circumstances I think WCL ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr H would have been able to sustainably repay Loans 3 and 4. So, I dont 
think WCL should have given Loans 3 and 4 to Mr H. 
I note that WCL said that there was a significant break in lending between Loans 4 and 5 
which demonstrated to it that Mr H wasnt in financial distress at the time. But I disagree. 
Although that gap might have given WCL a degree of reassurance, I don't think it would 
have been reasonable to treat Loan 5 as the start of a new chain of borrowing. 
WCL would have been aware from its own lending that Mr H had been borrowing from it for 
more than nine months without a break from taking out Loan 1 until Loan 4 was repaid. I 
think there was an established pattern of borrowing and it ought to have been concerned 
about this irrespective of the length of pause in Mr Hs applications. 
I also note that WCLs credit check before Loan 5 showed that Mr H had 16 active accounts 
with 14 opened in the previous six months. And I think WCL should have been aware from 
its checks that at least four of the numerous commitments shown on the credit checks were 
short term loans. Again, I think that this suggests that Mr H was still likely finding it difficult to 
manage his money. In these circumstances I think WCL ought to have realised it was 
unlikely that Mr H would have been able to sustainably repay Loan 5. And at the very least 
the information it saw should again have prompted a responsible lender to do further checks 
before lending. Had WCL done so, it would have become aware that Mr H had at least 
another five short term loans which werent shown on its credit checks. I have seen these on 
Mr Hs own credit report. So as a responsible lender, I dont think WCL should have given 
Loan 5.
I note that Mr Hs financial situation before Loan 6 hadnt improved. The credit check results 
that WCL shared with this service do not show that Mr H was in a stable financial position. 
The results show that he still had a significant number of open credit accounts including at 
least five short term loans. In addition, the amount borrowed, and the repayment amounts on 
Loan 6 were larger than for Loan 5. And Mr H had chosen to repay Loan 6 over four months, 
so he was committing to making his repayments over a longer period than previously. I think 
it should have been clear to WCL from all this that Mr H was still having significant problems 
managing his money and that it would be unlikely that he could repay any further borrowing 
in a sustainable manner. So I dont think that WCL should have given Loan 6 to Mr H.
 
I note that WCL said that Mr H had a higher than average income and that it was reasonable 
to accept that his non-discretionary spending was low. But I think that WCL should have 
seen from its credit checks that Mr H was facing significant problems managing his money 
and I dont think it was reasonable for WCL to conclude that any of the loans were affordable 
and sustainable. 
I also appreciate that Mr H repaid his loans on time or early. But successfully repaying his 
loans doesnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable way.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and I think that WCL 
needs to pay Mr H some compensation relating to Loans 1 to 6. So WCL should put things 
right as shown below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat, to take the following steps:1. Refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on Loans 1 to 6;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*; and
3.  Remove any adverse entries about Loans 1 to 6 from Mr Hs credit file.
*HMRC requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks WCL for a certificate 
showing how much tax WCL has taken off, it should provide this. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman