DRN-3555500
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Ltd (trading as Halifax Home 
Insurance) unfairly declined their claim for storm damage. Theyre also unhappy with the 
way their claim was handled.
What happened
On 17 May 2021, after a heavy thunderstorm, water started to leak through Mr and Mrs Ps 
ceiling. The next day they contacted Lloyds to make a claim on their home insurance. 
Lloyds sent a surveyor to assess the damage. But on 6 August 2021 they told Mr and Mrs P 
that none of the repairs would be covered under their policy. 
Mr and Mrs P complained about this outcome and the length of time it had taken. Lloyds said 
their decision to reject the claim was correct. They said the external damage wasnt due to a 
storm - and the internal damage was the same damage that hadnt been rectified after a 
previous claim.
Lloyds apologised for the delay and awarded Mr and Mrs P £75 compensation. Lloyds later 
acknowledged theyd made an error in their first answer to the complaint and awarded 
another £25 in compensation. Mr and Mrs P were still unhappy with the way Lloyds had 
handled things, so they brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining the claim for storm 
damage. He said he wasnt satisfied that the weather that day would be considered a storm, 
or that the accidental damage cover provided by Mr and Mrs Ps policy would cover 
rainwater entering their home. He agreed that the claim couldve been handled more quickly. 
But he thought the £100 Lloyds had already awarded was fair, so he didnt ask them to do 
anything more. 
Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review their case. Ill summarise their main points:
Theres no point in selling an insurance policy if it doesnt cover damage caused in 
real life. 
They question the way Lloyds define storm conditions, and the recorded windspeed 
and rainfall on that day. It was very heavy rainfall and really nasty weather. 
Their previous insurance company validated a similar claim in 2019 under accidental 
damage. It wouldnt be fair to allow Lloyds to apply different definitions to the same 
phenomena.
Stains caused by the incident on 17 May 2021 arent in the same place as the 
incident in 2019. 
Lloyds claims handler was rude and treated Mr P with suspicion. He couldve said the 
claim wouldnt be covered, instead of causing delays and aggravation by asking for 
evidence of previous roof repairs.
The stress of having stains on the kitchen ceiling and fear of further leaks has had a 
significant impact on Mr and Mrs P. Whenever it rains, Mrs P puts empty vessels 
underneath the spot where the ceiling leaks to collect roof water. £100 isnt enough 
to cover the cost of repairs.
My provisional decision
On 24 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance insurers must follow, 
which can be found in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). These rules 
include a requirement to handle claims promptly and fairly, and not to unreasonably reject a 
claim. Ive considered the way Lloyds handled Mr and Mrs Ps claim with this in mind. 
Mr and Mrs P feel their insurance should cover events that happen in everyday life. But it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect insurers to cover every eventuality - theyre entitled to set 
out what cover theyre prepared to offer for the price the policyholder has agreed to pay. The 
cover Lloyds agreed to provide Mr and Mrs P is explained in their policy booklet, which Ive 
reviewed in detail.
Was the claim handled fairly?
(i) External repairs
The policy covers storm damage to buildings. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P have 
expressed concern about Lloyds definition of a storm. But I dont find it necessary to 
consider this point, because Lloyds havent disputed whether there was a storm on 17 
May 2021. Ill move on to look at whether storm damage was likely to be the main cause 
of water leaking into Mr and Mrs Ps home.
Ive seen a copy of the surveyors report of the damage in May 2021. The report 
includes a number of external photographs, showing no signs of any missing tiles or any 
other visible damage to the roof. The surveyor said the roof tiles appeared to be in a 
good state of repair. But he noted that there didnt appear to be the correct lead flashing 
in place where the tiles met the rear external wall, with clear gaps that could allow water 
ingress. 
Having reviewed this report, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Lloyds to decide that 
the leak wasnt caused by storm damage, because there was no sign that the roof had 
suffered any damage. For that reason, I cant say that Lloyds should cover the cost of 
the external work needed to stop Mr and Mrs Ps roof leaking. 
(ii) Internal repairs
The policy includes accidental damage cover. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P find it 
frustrating that different insurance companies use slightly different definitions. But 
Lloyds didnt say they wouldnt cover internal damage caused by rainwater, so theres 
no need for me to discuss how accidental damage is defined in this policy. 
Theres no cover for damage that already existed before the policy started  this is 
made clear in the general exclusions section. Lloyds said they wouldnt pay for the 
internal damage because they considered it to be the same damage that had happened 
in 2019. Ive considered whether this decision was reasonable, based on the evidence 
theyd seen. Ive seen a copy of an earlier report on the same area of Mr and Mrs Ps roof, after a 
claim theyd made in October 2019. Their claim for storm damage to the roof was 
declined. But the report listed internal work that would be covered by the insurer. The 
total cost of this work was £779.16. It included applying stain block to the stained areas 
of the ceilings before redecorating, as well as repairing and testing the electrics. After 
deducting the excess that applied, Mr and Mrs Ps insurer paid out £629.16 to settle 
their claim. 
Mr P has told us that the amount they received from their insurer in 2019 wasnt enough 
to cover all the work that needed doing. He says he paid a roofer to carry out external 
roofing maintenance and repainted the ceilings himself. Hes provided evidence of the 
external work he paid for in July 2020. 
The surveyors report of the leak in May 2021 says theres clear staining to the ceiling in 
several areas, which will require stain blocking before being repainted with kitchen 
grade emulsion. The report also says electrical testing will be required to determine 
whether any of the lights have been damaged. 
Mr and Mrs P say the stains the surveyor photographed in May 2021 arent in the same 
place as the stains caused in October 2019. Ive given careful thought to this point. But 
having compared the photographs in the two reports in detail, I cant fairly say they show 
different damage. 
I can appreciate how upsetting this situation has been for Mr and Mrs P. But I havent 
seen any supporting evidence to confirm that the ceiling stains were effectively covered, 
or that the electrical work was carried out, after the damage in October 2019. So I cant 
say Lloyds acted unfairly by declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim for internal water damage in 
May 2021. 
Was the claim handled promptly?
Mr and Mrs P waited for more than 11 weeks before being told that their claim had been 
declined. Ive reviewed Lloyds claim notes to consider whether they shouldve reached this 
decision sooner. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr and Mrs P hadnt told Lloyds theyd made a similar claim 
for storm damage in 2019. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to make further enquiries 
about that previous claim - and whether those problems had been repaired - before making 
their decision about the more recent claim. I can understand that Mr P found this upsetting, 
but I havent seen anything to suggest the claims handler was rude or disrespectful in the 
way he requested information.  
Lloyds records show they received the report from Mr and Mrs Ps previous insurer on 14 
July 2021. Lloyds accept there was a delay because they needed to go back to their 
surveyor for more information. Their records confirm that the surveyor provided this on 6 
August 2021. So I think this caused an avoidable delay of between two and three weeks.
 
Lloyds awarded Mr and Mrs P £75 for not having progressed things more quickly - and a 
further £25 for not clearly explaining what theyd been waiting for. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. So, although I realise this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs P are hoping for, I dont 
intend to direct Lloyds to do anything further to resolve their complaint. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds said they had no further comments to make. Mr and Mrs P didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or comments in response to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman