DRN-3244490
The complaint
Mr S complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
Carnwyllon Wealth Management Ltd (CWM), the respondent business in this complaint and 
another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the 
security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unclear what to do so he 
contacted CWM. Mr S met with CWM in November 2016, during which it gathered 
information about his financial circumstances.  Mr S says he was given advice at this time 
to transfer his pension benefits orally. 
As CWM didnt hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
to advise on the transfer of his defined benefits in the BSPS, it referred Mr S to Firm B.
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr S a recommendation letter on 20 March 2017 advising him 
not to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. However, Mr S told Firm B he 
wanted to transfer in any event on an insistent client basis. 
Firm B issued a suitability report on 30 March 2017. It reiterated that its advice was that Mr 
S should not transfer out of the BSPS, but as he wanted to proceed, it recommended he 
invest the funds with a business Ill refer to as M. £390,359 was transferred to his new 
pension and was invested with M. Mr S was referred back to CWM for ongoing advice and 
servicing of his pension. 
In 2019 Mr S complained to both CWM and Firm B about the advice.
Firm B didnt uphold the complaint and Mr S referred his complaint about it to our service. 
However, whilst the complaint was with us, Firm B went into liquidation so Mr Ss 
complaint about this business has been referred to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
CWM told Mr S it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it 
had referred him to Firm B.
Mr Ss representative asked our service to consider his complaint, saying CWM should be 
held liable for the advice. It said Mr S had been verbally advised to transfer by CWM and 
he had relied on its advice. This was inappropriate as CWM was not authorised to advise 
on pension transfers. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded that CWM had 
advised Mr S to transfer his pension  she was satisfied that Mr S had only transferred 
his pension due to his interactions with Firm B. The investigator thought Mr Ss alleged 
loss had ultimately arisen due to Firm Bs actions.
Mr Ss representative didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss representatives says CWM should be held liable for the advice on three grounds:
CWM orally advised, and influenced, Mr S to transfer his pension and Mr S relied 
upon what CMW had said despite Firm Bs involvement. It says that CWM clearly 
provided more than just information and it should be held accountable for this.
CWM and Firm B had a very close working relationship. This put them in a position of 
conflict which CWM failed to manage appropriately.
Even if CWM is not liable for the losses as a result of Mr S transferring out of the 
BSPS, CWM was still obliged to treat him fairly and have due regard to his best 
interests.
Ill address each point in turn.
Did CWM influence, or advise, Mr S to transfer?
Mr Ss representative says that CWM should be held liable for the DB transfer losses 
because it went beyond its role of introducer. It says CWM persuaded Mr S to transfer his 
BSPS benefits and take out the pension with M before Firm Bs involvement and Mr S 
relied on its advice. It says this is supported by the fact the application form for the pension 
with M was signed on 3 March 2017, before Mr S met with Firm B on 16 March 2017 and 
received full advice from it on 30 March 2017. 
CWM did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an introducer agreement in place 
with Firm B. Im aware of a significant number of customers seeking advice on their BSPS 
benefits who were introduced by CWM to Firm B. 
Having considered the information available, Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence to show that CWM advised Mr S to transfer his BSPS benefits. Based on what 
Ive seen, CWM met with Mr (and Mrs S) on a couple of occasions and it completed a 
fact-find and an attitude to risk assessment. CWM didnt gather any information about Mr 
Ss objectives and I havent seen any evidence to show that CWM gave Mr S a personal 
recommendation. 
However, I do think its possible that CWM was operating on the presumption that Firm B 
would probably advise Mr S to transfer out of the BSPS. As above it seems likely that 
some of the paperwork was completed before Mr S had been formally introduced to 
Firm B. So, I think its possible Mr S had the impression that CWM was advocating for the transfer of his BSPS benefits to a personal pension and that it introduced the product with 
M to him. But I dont think that necessarily means CWM advised Mr S to take out the 
pension with M.Ultimately Im persuaded that it was Firm B that gave a recommendation 
that facilitated  the transfer of Mr S BSPS benefits. 
Mr S did meet with Firm B and the illustrations, TVAS and suitability letter were all 
produced by Firm B. Mr S went through an insistent client process with Firm B. 
I also note the application form for the pension was signed by the adviser at Firm B and 
Mr S on 22 March 2017, which included the details of Mr Ss BSPS benefits to be 
transferred. Although this was before Firm B produced its full suitability report a few days 
later, I dont think that means the pension with M was recommended by CWM. 
And while Firm B didnt produce the recommendation letter until around a week later, it 
appears to have already decided by that point that it was going to be recommending that 
Mr S shouldnt transfer his BSPS benefits to M, but it was aware that Mr S would be doing 
this against its advice. So, I think it was after Firm Bs involvement that Mr S applied for the 
pension with M and transferred his BSPS benefits to it.
Mr S says he relied on his interactions with CWM when deciding whether to transfer his 
BSPS benefits. But Mr S couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with CWM 
alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr S 
would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he 
wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was 
repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr S would need to 
provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It is clear 
to me, based on the evidence Ive seen, that CWM did not issue any recommendation 
letter or suitability report to Mr S advising him to transfer out of BSPS. However, Firm B 
issued a suitability report addressed to Mr S in which it gave its advice. So, Mr S couldnt 
have transferred out of BSPS based on the meetings he had with CWM or any verbal 
advice he feels he was given.
I accept that CWM received a substantial part of the advice fee following Mr Ss transfer, as 
a result of it introducing Mr S to Firm B. But, ultimately, Firm B gave the advice that allowed 
Mr S to transfer, and I dont think CWMs earlier involvement automatically makes CWM 
liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr S to transfer. And as it was Firm Bs advice that led to the transfer, this loss 
flows from that advice. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for 
Mr Ss losses flowing from the transfer. This includes the advice fee Mr S paid to CWM.
Im aware that Firm B was declared in default by the FSCS, so Mr S will need to pursue a 
claim with the FSCS  I understand he is already in the process of doing so.
Did CWM and Firm B have a conflict of interest?
Mr Ss representative says that CWM and firm B have a conflict of interest. CWM 
introduced Mr S to Firm B. And CWM received a payment when the transfer was 
processed, and ongoing payments when it became Mr Ss adviser. Mr Ss representative 
thinks these payments would have positively influenced CWM into enabling the transfer. 
Even though it should have been aware that it was not in Mr S best interests. 
Due to the nature of the relationship and the number of pension transfers likely carried out 
in this manner, the representative wants me to ascertain how many clients CWM 
introduced to Firm B and how many of those received a positive recommendation to transfer and were returned to CWM for ongoing advice. It asked that I look at all the 
correspondence with both of the firms and cross reference these with other similar 
complaints. 
Mr Ss representative will understand that the individual details of each case are always 
different  which is why this service decides each case on its own particular facts and 
merits. So, in deciding this complaint, Ill only look at the individual facts and merits 
applicable to Mr Ss personal dealings with CWM. I wont be considering CWMs alleged 
acts or omissions in other cases where it introduced individuals to Firm B. And I wont be 
considering the acts or omissions of Firm B in its dealing with Mr S because this complaint 
is about CWM rather than Firm B.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
CWM liable for the advice given that led to Mr S to transferring his BSPS benefits. Although 
Mr Ss representative states that Mr S was verbally advised to transfer by CWM, Im not 
persuaded that it gave him a personal recommendation. The evidence Ive seen shows that 
Firm B gave Mr S a personal recommendation based on its own analysis.
Firm B didnt rely on CWMs earlier fact-finding. It also produced a TVAS and suitability 
report, which CWM did not. CWM didnt have permission from the FCA to advise on 
pension transfers, so Mr S could only have transferred his BSPS benefits as a result of 
Firm Bs advice. So, I think Mr Ss losses flow from that advice, rather than because of any 
interaction he had with CWM before that. 
CWM did receive a payment for introducing Mr S to Firm B, and ongoing payments as a 
result of the advice. But this is reasonable where one business cannot advise on an aspect 
of financial planning and another can, as has happened here. Firm B and CWM had an 
agreement in place, which provided for the split of the advice fee between the two firms if 
CWM referred clients to Firm B. I dont think this arrangement is unreasonable and it is 
permitted by the regulator. I dont think its reasonable to say that CWM was in a position of 
conflict due to this, particularly as any advice given by Firm B had to be compliant with the 
FCAs regulations. 
Did CWM treat Mr S fairly and have due regard to his best interests
Mr Ss representative has suggested that CWM didnt treat Mr S fairly or act in his best 
interests by having a close working relationship with Firm B as it did not carry out 
appropriate analysis of Firm B before referring Mr S to it. It says CWM should have done 
so to prevent Mr S suffering detriment, as it ought to have been aware that defined-
benefit pensions were valuable and that it wasnt usually in a customers best interests to 
transfer out.
As I have said above, CWM did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise
Mr S on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, I dont think it is fair to say that CWM should 
have advised Mr S against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about 
the regulators starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to 
transfer out. 
As CWM didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr S to Firm B, which was 
regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think CWM could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly as Firm B 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated 
adviser, it was also required to treat Mr S fairly, act in his best interests and provide him 
with suitable advice.In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was CWMs advice that ultimately led 
to Mr Ss decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also 
not persuaded that CWM made an error or treated Mr S unfairly in the role it carried out.
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require CWM to pay compensation to Mr S or to take any further action in 
response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman