DRN-3671372
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) they incurred when 
they redeemed their mortgage with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out their mortgage in February 2021. They borrowed £720,000 (plus fees) 
on a repayment basis over a 30-year term. The interest rate was fixed at 1.14% until 
2 March 2023, with an ERC for that same period.
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs E decided to remortgage in order to secure a lower interest 
rate for a longer period. When looking at their options they say they realised the ERC on 
their Santander mortgage was 3% of the outstanding balance, and they were concerned it 
would be uneconomical to switch.
They complained to Santander that an ERC should be a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
costs of the consumer repaying the mortgage, and said they felt a 3% flat ERC isnt a 
reasonable pre-estimate of Santanders costs.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr and Mrs E referred the matter to our 
service.
Our investigator obtained information from Santander to show how the ERC had been 
calculated and, having done so, she didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied it was a 
reasonable pre-estimate.
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than the 
parties have presented them. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs E feel very strongly about this, and I thank them for the 
thoroughness of their submissions. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this; its merely a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what issues should and shouldnt 
be considered. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB) includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC 
must be able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it 
calculates an ERC, and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of 
similar type, rather than for individual loans. Santander is entitled to set an ERC based not 
on the actual cost to it of Mr and Mrs E ending their own mortgage early, but on a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar 
type. 
Mr and Mrs E have said that a group of mortgages of similar type means only mortgages 
that had an interest rate fixed at 1.14%, but thats not the case. Mortgages of a similar type 
is wider than that. Santander sets its ERCs at a product term and type level, so here that is 
all two-year fixed rates, not just the 1.14% two-year fixed rate. That is normal industry 
practice and in line with what wed expect.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate.
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Santander is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Santander has provided evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this group of 
mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Santander has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Mr and Mrs E.
The information from Santander shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. Ive looked 
very carefully at what Santander has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the ERC.In the circumstances, Im satisfied:
Santander was entitled to charge Mr and Mrs E the ERC set out in their mortgage 
contract when they repaid their mortgage early (including the repayment of any 
benefit).
There was no requirement for Santander to only charge an amount worked out based 
on Mr and Mrs Es individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to 
charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a 
group of mortgages of similar type.
The calculations provided to us by Santander demonstrate the ERC set out in the 
contract was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs for that group of mortgages.
Mr and Mrs E dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Santander will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Es right to take legal action against Santander over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman