DRN-3052719
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about her home insurer UK Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect of a 
claim she made to it in August 2018  she felt it caused delays into 2019 and then 
unreasonably asked her to sign a mandate for repair work to be done. Mrs G also had some 
issues with some of the contractors UKI appointed.
What happened
Mrs G found a leak in her kitchen in August 2018 and made a claim to UKI. By October 2018 
the damage hadnt been resolved and some issues had arisen with the repair contractors as 
well as the drying company UKI had appointed. UKI found a new contractor and another 
drying company. The drying company said further strip out work, including removal of 
asbestos was required. It said this was completed by 19 December 2018. Meanwhile the 
repair contractor said it would do a scope once the property was found to be dry  but Mrs G 
wanted things to move faster. This second repair contractor then told UKI that it didnt want 
to be involved any further. UKI appointed a further company to complete a scope of works 
which would then be put to tender.
This progressed and UKI had hoped to start the reinstatement work at the beginning of April. 
But UKIs project management company wanted Mrs G to sign a mandate. Mrs G noted the 
mandate named her as being responsible for payment of works and so she wasnt happy to 
sign this. The repairs couldnt then progress. As of September 2019 the claim was at 
stalemate, with UKI stating that if Mrs G wouldnt sign the mandate, it would look to settle the 
claim in cash.
Until around January 2019 UKI had been paying Mrs G a disturbance allowance. In 
January 2019 the second repair contractor said the house was unsafe and UKI offered 
Mrs G alternative accommodation. But Mrs G didnt think that was a viable option for her, so 
UKI, with Mrs Gs kitchen having been removed, installed a temporary kitchen for her to use. 
By April 2019, and with the repair programme stalled, Mrs G was very concerned about 
asbestos at the property. UKI had said some had been left because it couldnt easily be 
removed. But, UKI said, it had been made safe and would be removed as part of the more 
extensive repairs, once Mrs G signed the mandate allowing those to progress. Mrs G told us 
that the asbestos situation was getting worse and causing her a lot of worry. She referred to 
asbestos in other parts of her property and on an external wall.
The claim didnt then progress for some months. In November 2019 Mrs G said that whilst 
she hadnt used the temporary kitchen due to the asbestos issue, she would need to now, as 
Christmas was approaching. But when she tried to use it, it wouldnt work. UKI was advised 
but it didnt attend to fix the kitchen. Mrs G, and her daughter who also lives at the property,  
then spent a few days over Christmas in a hotel. The temporary kitchen was later removed. 
UKI had paid Mrs G a disturbance allowance until the temporary kitchen was fitted, and 
began paying it again from 4 February 2020 when it was removed. 
Around this time, following discussions with our service, and UKI meeting with Mrs G at her 
home, UKI agreed to find another contractor to do the repairs which wouldnt require a 
contract to be signed by Mrs G. It completed an air test which confirmed there was no 
presence of asbestos particles and also arranged to have the remaining asbestos removed. 
Work duly began and was mostly completed by 18 March 2020  but not without concerns 
being raised by Mrs G about the quality of some of the work. But UKI felt that by 18 March it 
was only decorative work that was outstanding so it stopped paying the disturbance 
allowance. Unfortunately for all concerned the remaining work was then impacted by the 
national pandemic and didnt progress further until summer 2020.
In July 2020 there was an incident at Mrs Gs property which occurred whilst UKIs 
contractor was attending with a view to replacing Mrs Gs washing machine (for one she had 
bought). The replacement did not take place. UKI and Mrs G have different versions of what 
happened. But the report UKI received from its contractor caused UKI to feel it couldnt 
reasonably send contractors back to Mrs Gs property and it decided it would settle the 
outstanding work in cash.
UKI wrote to Mrs G in September and October 2020. It set out all the payments it had made 
to date, what work was outstanding, what individually and totally that would cost to complete 
(around £1,700). UKI said it would also consider estimates from Mrs G for replacement 
blinds and a solar panel battery. Mrs G felt the list was incomplete and she remained 
unhappy about everything she felt UKI had put her through. She said she kept finding 
exposed electrical wires, the gas pipes needed to be sorted, the kitchen would need to come 
out to correct plastering, carpentry and tile work, carpets had been damaged during plaster 
work and that whilst UKI said shed paid no excess, she had paid £350.
In March 2021 UKI agreed to send a surveyor to Mrs Gs home to look at all of the 
outstanding issues and to consider the things she had concerns about. That took place in 
early April 2021. The surveyor determined that a lot of work was necessary, including taking 
out and replacing the kitchen base units. He said some work was specialist so contractors 
would need to be appointed to price everything. In July 2021, with a full scope and pricing of 
work having been done, UKI wrote to Mrs G and said it would offer her £15,585.39 (including 
£297.39 outstanding for the solar panel and £1,150 as a contingency fund) in full settlement 
of all outstanding work. This included VAT.
Mrs G noted the price but that this came following two tenders with vastly differing costs. 
One for around £12,000 (plus VAT) and one for £24,000. She said there was also work 
missing from the tenders. UKI agreed to review the settlement offer, but when the complaint 
was passed to me for review, Mrs G hadnt yet clarified what was missing and UKIs revision 
of the offer remained outstanding.
Whilst Mrs Gs complaint was initially considered by our service in June 2019, due to the 
on-going circumstances of the claim the complaint couldnt progress to our ombudsman 
stage at that time. But as the claim progressed and further issues arose (as summarised 
above), UKI agreed that we could consider everything that had occurred. The complaint was 
passed to me to consider and, in August 2021, Mrs G provided verbal testimony for me to 
listen to which explained her account of the claim. I then issued a provisional decision to set 
out my views on what had happened and what I thought UKI should do to put matters right. 
The parties have now responded to my findings. Ive set out below my provisional findings 
(in italics), the responses from the parties and my final views on each issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays and claim progress
Provisionally I said: UKI accepts there were delays in the early months of the claim. UKI 
though thinks that Mrs G is partly responsible for the first drying company and first two repair 
contractors having to be replaced, which also caused delays. From the detail UKI has 
provided, I think all three contractors chose, for varying reasons not to reattend, and in the 
case of the drying company UKI itself felt it wasnt appropriate to continue using them. Im 
not persuaded that delays at this time were caused by Mrs G.
The claim then entered a further prolonged period of delay because Mrs G was asked to 
sign a mandate to authorise UKIs contractors to do work. Ive seen the mandate and I can 
see why Mrs G was worried about signing it. The language and terms arent very clear, also 
the employer is listed as Mrs G  when it should have been UKI. Many months later UKI 
felt it could change to another contractor. I think something more should have been done to 
resolve this impasse much sooner. That would likely have shortened the process 
dramatically and likely avoided the repair period extending into the national pandemic that 
ensued in spring 2020.
When work resumed a further impasse arose as result of the incident in July 2020. I know 
this incident is a source of great upset for Mrs G as she feels her actions have been 
misrepresented by the tradesmen in attendance and at the heart of the issue. In short the 
tradesmen said Mrs G was the aggressor whereas she says she remained calm throughout, 
did not and could not have become physical with the tradesmen. Mrs G also says it was she 
who was pushed by the tradesmen who were (and Im summarising) surly and unhelpful at 
best. UKI took statements from the tradesmen and on the basis of what they said UKI said it 
would cash settle the claim as it has a duty to safeguard its workers. I appreciate that Mrs G 
didnt want to settle things in cash and that its frustrating for her that UKI has taken the word 
of the tradesmen over hers. However, even if UKI had taken her account as correct I think it 
would have come to the same conclusion, that this trader needed to be removed from the 
job. I know this was the third repair contractor and UKIs pool was limited. I think that the 
claim progressing by means of a cash settlement was always inevitable at this point. 
I think there were then further delays because UKI relied on the outgoing contractors to tell it 
what was outstanding. Later UKI sent a surveyor to make a full inventory and the cost of 
reinstating the property changed from £1,700 to £15,000. And UKI accepts there are still 
issues not included in that, even though the sum was reached following a full tender 
process. So three years after work started Mrs G is still facing the prospect of having to 
complete a further £15,000 plus of work to reinstate her property. That is not fair or 
reasonable as the reinstatement should have been completed long before now. 
Further to my provisional findings: UKI didnt make any objection to what Id said in this 
respect. Mrs G offered further comment about what had happened and how matters had 
been prolonged. She added that shed incurred a cost of £1,000 during the early stages of 
the claim. Mrs G also reiterated detail about what had happened during the encounter in 
July 2020. In that respect she noted the redacted copy statements wed shared with her, 
given by UKIs tradesmen, had their personal details removed  but not hers, which she felt 
was unfair. 
Having considered Mrs Gs comments about how the claim progressed, I find they broadly 
concur with what Ive set out above. Im satisfied that theres no need for me to change, 
amend or add to what I said provisionally in this respect. Whilst I note what Mrs G says about incurring costs, I see this was because she felt UKI 
wasnt progressing things. I understand why Mrs G might have spent money to do so herself, 
but I note that, by this time, shed got in touch with us and we were actively assisting her in 
progressing the claim. We contacted UKI and it re-established contact with Mrs G. Im not 
persuaded it was reasonable for Mrs G to incur extra costs at this time or that it would be fair 
for me to conclude that UKI should reimburse them.
Regarding Mrs Gs concerns about her details being on the witness statements, Id like to 
add some explanatory comment. The witness statements, on UKIs files, include both the 
tradesmens details and Mrs Gs (as do the initial copies it sent us). And Mrs G wanted to 
see the statements, but she wasnt entitled to see the tradesmens details. So, on the copy 
documents she was sent, these details were removed. Mrs Gs details werent removed 
because she was the one who had asked for and received the data. 
Conduct of UKIs staff/agents
Provisionally I said: I know Mrs G is unhappy with some details shes seen on the UKI file  
assumptions that have been made and recorded about her. I can understand why this would 
have upset her. But I have to bear in mind that an insurer, when trying to progress a claim, 
sometimes needs to make judgement calls about what is going on, as well as what that 
means for it and the claim. Sometimes those type of judgement calls are uncomfortable for a 
policyholder to learn about. But if I saw these type of comments and felt theyd been made 
maliciously or with ill intent of some kind, then I would certainly make a finding in that 
respect. But I havent seen anything that makes me think that is the case here. The staff 
have commented based on their experiences and whilst, ideally theyd have reserved some 
of the judgements they made, I dont think they were said with the intention of making 
Mrs Gs position worse or maligning her name. 
Further to my provisional findings: Mrs G said the judgements that had been made had been 
spoken as well as written, were untrue and amounted to defamation, slander and libel. She 
believes they hindered the progress of the claim and had an effect on the way anyone at UKI 
seeing the notes or hearing the comments, treated her. She felt the discussions UKI had 
with our previous investigator had been malicious. Mrs G feels UKI should at least be made 
to apologise for the untrue things it had said.
I understand that Mrs G is very upset by everything that has gone on. As I said provisionally, 
I think UKIs representatives should have reserved some of the judgements made and 
probably shouldnt have said some things at all. But, given the written comments Ive seen, 
I dont think anything was done maliciously or with ill intent. Whilst I know Mrs G has 
reported to us about some of the things she says UKI said to her  I havent been able to 
hear the conversations that took place. I appreciate that everything will feel personal to 
Mrs G  because she is the one hurt by the comments, or at least her own understanding 
and recollection of what was said. But it is my job to review the complaint from a removed 
perspective and, having done so, Im not minded to conclude that UKIs representatives 
intended Mrs G harm. 
Now it may well be that because UKI felt Mrs G was (and this is my summary of the phrases 
UKI used and Mrs G was upset about) acting irrationally at times, this did affect the claims 
progress. For example, Ive noted above that UKI didnt do enough to overcome Mrs Gs 
concerns about the document she was asked to sign. I think part of the delay surrounding 
that could be to do with determinations UKI had made about Mrs Gs character. But Ive 
acknowledged there were delays in this respect  as well as more generally  and Ive taken 
the delays into account in my compensation award. In this case I think compensation is the 
most appropriate form of redress, so Im not going to amend my final decision to make UKI 
provide an apology to Mrs G.  Asbestos, mould and gas pipes
Provisionally I said: I see that drying began, with driers being removed before major strip 
out work began. Given the location of the leak and the asbestos it seems likely to me that 
the asbestos was intact when driers were in use. So Im not persuaded Mrs G was put at 
risk. Later some asbestos was removed, but some was left. UKI confirmed it sealed the area 
around the cupboard and I havent seen that other areas of asbestos left were damaged 
such that particles would be released into the air. Later UKI did complete some tests  the 
air tests showed no contamination. Whilst this was a good while later, it was done before the 
remaining asbestos was removed. I think if there had been any risk from the asbestos, some 
sign of contamination would still have shown in the tests. That said, UKI was made aware of 
concerns Mrs G had about asbestos in 2019  but its focus at the time was on getting the 
mandate signed. UKI shouldnt really have let the mandate issue prevent it from checking 
out Mrs Gs asbestos concerns. That would have saved her a year of worry.
UKIs first drying contractor also confirmed that mould was cleaned before driers were put in 
place. And I havent seen anything that shows me this was not the case. So Im not 
persuaded that Mrs G was left at risk in this respect either. 
Taking Mrs G at her word, she had to insist on something being done about the smell of gas 
shed noted at her property. But UKI did fix that pipe. And whilst I know Mrs G is worried 
about what might have happened if she hadnt persisted, I cant take that into account. My 
focus has to be on what did happen and what Mrs G suffered as a result. So Ive noted her 
frustration and the persistence she needed to apply to get this resolved. 
Further to my provisional findings: UKI didnt object to anything Id said. Mrs G reiterated 
details given previously about these aspects. As neither party has said anything materially 
different in response to the findings, Im not going to change them. Theyre now my final 
findings on this aspect of Mrs Gs complaint.
Temporary kitchen, disturbance allowance and the Christmas hotel
Provisionally I said: UKI put a temporary kitchen in but Mrs G felt unable to use it due to her 
concerns about asbestos. As I said above, UKI could have done more, at an earlier stage to 
resolve the asbestos issue. But it did not. Im also mindful that from November 2019 UKI was 
put on notice that the temporary kitchen wasnt actually working. Mrs G asked for it to be 
repaired at that time (she was going to use it wearing an asbestos mask), but UKI didnt do 
so. I think UKI should pay Mrs G £7,540 as a disturbance allowance. This is calculated as 
£20 a day from 23 January 2019 (the date the temporary kitchen was installed and the 
disturbance allowance ceased), until 3 February 2020 inclusive (with the disturbance 
allowance already having been reinstated and paid again from 4 February 2020). 
UKI stopped paying Mrs G a disturbance allowance on 18 March 2020. I know there is 
clearly a lot of work now still to be done, or re-done. But from the detail Ive seen I think 
sufficient work had been done by 18 March 2020 to warrant UKI stopping the disturbance 
allowance. I think Mrs G had reasonable access to all her usual facilities of her property at 
that time. But she wont when repairs recommence, and Ive taken that into account later.
Im not surprised that Mrs G felt the need to move to a hotel over Christmas 2019. If UKI 
hasnt already it should reimburse Mrs Gs costs in this respect, plus interest from 
25 December 2019 until settlement is made.Further to my provisional findings: Mrs G didnt raise any objection. UKI said it wanted to 
know why I was suggesting it should pay the allowance from January 2019, when Mrs G had 
the temporary kitchen available to her at that time, until it stopped working in November. 
As I explained in my provisional findings  whilst UKI installed a temporary kitchen for Mrs G 
in January 2019, she was unable to use it because UKI hadnt resolved or assuaged her 
concerns about asbestos. Im satisfied that UKI paying Mrs G an allowance from 
23 January 2019, as provisionally awarded, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Blinds and solar panel
Provisionally I said: UKI said it would pay Mrs G for replacement blinds and a solar panel 
battery. UKI has said its paid for these, less the £297 accounted for in the current settlement 
figure. That being the case I wont require it to pay for them again. But if Mrs G thinks she 
hasnt had full/correct reimbursement for these items she should tell me so, in response to 
this decision. UKI might also like to show me proof of any payments it has made in this 
respect. 
However, there is another issue with the solar panel. Mrs G says that when it was working 
she would gain a saving from her electricity supplier of around £1,000 a year. Because it 
wasnt working and she had to wait for UKI to pay to replace it, she lost out on that saving. 
What Mrs G said makes sense to me, and I am aware that savings like this can be made 
where solar panels are installed. And she was without the panel because she was waiting for 
UKI to replace it. But for me to require UKI to compensate Mrs G for any saving she may 
have made, Ill need to see proof from Mrs G that she made such a saving before and that 
none was applied to her account during 2019 and 2020. If Mrs G wants me to consider 
making an award against UKI in this respect, she needs to send me proof in response to this 
decision.
Further to my provisional findings: UKI didnt object to what Id said in this respect. Mrs G 
said UKI had paid for her kitchen blind, but not for the one at the patio door. Regarding the 
solar panel, she said shes so far been unable to get evidence from her energy supplier. But 
also that there was now another problem with the solar panel and if she cant get her energy 
supplier to reinstate her solar contract she will have lost the £10,000 she spent installing the 
panel and the income it would have generated for her over the next twenty-five years.
I note what Mrs G has said about the blinds and Ive reviewed the communications that we 
have on file about these items. UKI told Mrs G if she sent it an estimate for damaged blinds it 
would pay it. She sent an estimate and invoice for £500, and on 7 May 2021 she told us she 
was satisfied with a settlement the loss adjuster had put to her in response. I see the 
estimate does refer to kitchen and door blinds. Im satisfied that UKI has made a reasonable 
settlement to Mrs G for damaged blinds. 
With regret for any disappointment that my following comments cause Mrs G, Im not going 
to make any settlement to her in respect of the solar panel. This claim has been on-going for 
a long time and it was at least as long ago as February 2019 when Mrs G first told UKI that 
her solar panel wasnt working due to the strip-out and electrical works it had undertaken. 
I think Mrs G must have known at that time, that without the panel working, her contract with 
the energy company, and any reimbursements that entitled her to, would be impacted. 
Whilst I know Mrs G has been grappling with the claim and some ill health, I think shes had 
plenty of time to gather evidence relevant to establishing shes had, and will continue to 
have, a loss in this respect. I also havent seen any expert evidence that shows theres now 
a further issue with the panel or that this is something UKI is likely responsible for. My final 
decision in this respect then is that Im not going to make any award to Mrs G in respect of 
the solar panel.Cash settlement offer
Provisionally I said: Currently UKI has offered just over £15,000 in settlement. This includes 
VAT and UKI hasnt sought to deduct an excess from this sum. Mrs G feels that UKI should 
have based its offer on the other contractors price of £24,000. I understand her concern but 
know that it isnt unusual for an insurer to base a cash settlement on the lower of the 
estimated prices. Im not persuaded its unfair for UKI to do that here.
UKI hasnt though, included any offer of alternative accommodation or disturbance 
allowance as part of this settlement. Given the extent of work still to be done, at minimum 
I think a disturbance allowance should be paid for the period of works. If Mrs G wants to 
move out, UKI should consider payment for that. But, from what Ive seen to date, I think 
shed prefer to stay at home. Unusually the tender document doesnt detail how long the 
contractor thinks the work should take. Looking at what needs to be done I think a 
conservative estimate would be four weeks. If either party wants to persuade me it will be 
less, or more, Ill consider that. Otherwise I intend to require UKI to pay Mrs G £560 being 
£20 a day for four weeks.
That said, Mrs G says, and UKI, to some extent at least agrees, that there is work missing 
from this estimate. I havent been given much detail about this yet  but I do know Mrs G 
wants her hall carpet replacing and that she says the kitchen floor has been reinstated 
without an access hatch which was there before. This final part of the settlement needs 
fleshing out before I can reasonably say much about what UKI must now do. But I do want to 
be able to include some direction to finalise this aspect within my final decision. So Im going 
to ask that the parties share any detail they have with me on this aspect within a week of the 
date of this decision. Given how much the cost of work increased when the surveyor became 
involved and the work was tendered for, it wouldnt surprise me if the cost of the further work 
reached £5,000. If UKI wants to persuade me it will be less than that, Ill consider that. 
Equally if Mrs G thinks the outstanding work will cost more, she should explain that. If the 
parties are happy for me to award £5,000 in settlement of all outstanding issues, not 
included as part of the £15,000 settlement, Ill do so.
Further to my provisional findings: Mrs G reiterated her view that the settlement should be 
based on the higher of the two tender prices. She feels the settlement offered (based on the 
lowest tender price) wont be enough to do the work. Mrs G said some of the work specified 
wouldnt resolve the related damage  for example the floor wont steam clean. She then 
listed the outstanding work that was not included in the tender. But she didnt provide costs 
for all these items or object to my suggestion that £5,000 should be paid to settle this issue 
(of outstanding work not included in the tender document and, therefore, the settlement 
offer). UKI said it wanted me to explain why it was being asked to pay £5,000. Mrs Gs list 
was copied to it. It said it was unclear why it was now being asked to pay for items that 
hadnt been identified during the surveyors visit as the purpose of that meeting was to 
complete a comprehensive list of all outstanding issues. Further, UKI said, it had included a 
contingency fund of £1,150 within its settlement offer. It didnt offer any specific comment on 
the list of works or what it felt they might cost. Nor did it raise any specific argument about 
my suggested award of £5,000 being too much for the listed items.
I understand why Mrs G would want UKI to pay for the highest tender price. But, as I said 
provisionally, it isnt unusual for an insurer to make a settlement against the lower of any 
estimates given. And here I note this was a tender process  so it meant the contractors 
were providing costs against the same list of work, rather than viewing the damage 
themselves and deciding individually what was needed to fix that. So it isnt a case, as I see 
sometimes, that the prices differ because the work detailed by each is vastly different. I dont 
think it would be a fair outcome, or in line with the approach generally taken by this service, if I made UKI provide an additional settlement to Mrs G based on the higher of the two 
tenders. 
Turning to UKIs queries about my suggested award of £5,000 for outstanding works; I think 
my reason for suggesting this award was clear and Im not going to repeat myself. I note 
UKIs comments about the intended reason for the surveyors visit  but when I made my 
provisional finding UKI had already accepted that, for whatever reason, the meeting hadnt 
achieved its intended purpose. And it invited Mrs G to provide it details for the settlement to 
be reviewed. The settlement did include a contingency  but my comment immediately prior 
applies in this respect too. Thats because the contingency was in place when UKI accepted 
there were items outstanding such that it fairly needed to review its settlement. Further, a 
contingency is included in large pieces of work like this to account for any issues with the 
work detailed that might arise that havent ben foreseen. It isnt included to account for work 
that is known about but simply hasnt been costed for.
I see that Mrs G hasnt argued the £5,000 I suggested is not enough. I also see that UKI 
hasnt provided any argument or reasoning, or comment from any of its experts, stating 
£5,000 is too much for this work. I remain of the view that UKI completed a tender for 
outstanding work which still left key work unaccounted for. I also remain satisfied that to 
draw this long running claim to an end, making UKI pay £5,000, in addition to its settlement 
offer of £15,585.39 is fair and reasonable. To be clear  these sums will settle all UKIs 
liability for all claim related work and for all work that is needed on account of any damage 
UKI itself has caused. My reference to UKI includes any of its representatives, agents, 
specialists, contractors and sub-contractors.
 
Compensation
Provisionally I said: I see this has been a difficult time for Mrs G. I think UKI could have 
done more at times to move matters on. Im mindful that the delays which Im satisfied that 
UKI has caused have resulted in the claim being delayed through the pandemic and now 
into a time of poor and possibly failing health for Mrs G. I note that for over a year Mrs G felt 
unable to use the temporary kitchen UKI had installed to alleviate her disruption, and she 
had to spend Christmas 2019 in a hotel. Overall I understand that this claim has dominated 
Mrs Gs life for the last three years, and I think that could have been largely avoided if UKI 
had handled things better. To date UKI has paid, or offered £200 compensation. I dont think 
thats sufficient. I think UKI should pay Mrs G £2,500 compensation as that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Further to my provisional findings: Mrs G noted that I hadnt specified any detail (in this 
section) about the encounter shed had with UKIs tradesmen in July 2020. She asked me to 
clarify whether or not I was taking this aspect into account. UKI asked me to explain my 
rationale for what it sees as a high, unjustified award.
I explained provisionally what factors I had taken into account when initially deciding what 
I felt would be a fair and reasonable compensation award. As Mrs G has noted, the 
encounter she had in July 2020 wasnt specified in this respect. I can assure Mrs G that 
I havent discounted the encounter in July 2020. However, I explained provisionally (under 
my section about delays) how I felt that UKI had acted reasonably in taking action based on 
the word of its contractors. That doesnt mean I disbelieve Mrs Gs account of what 
happened, and I noted provisionally that she and the contractors have very different 
recollections of the incident. It is for that reason that my suggested compensation award 
doesnt take into account any hurt or upset shes told me she was caused during or by the 
encounter. Thats because I was satisfied (as explained) that the situation didnt cause an 
unfair or delayed claim outcome. But also because I cant know for sure whether the 
contractors failed Mrs G in this respect because I wasnt there to see what unfolded. Furthermore, the statements from those that were there report very different circumstances. 
I dont know why that is and I cant cross examine the parties under oath as a court might be 
able to. But if Im not satisfied, based on the evidence that is available to me  which Im not, 
that a failure occurred which caused distress and/or inconvenience, and/or pain and/or 
suffering, I cant award compensation. 
Turning to UKIs objection to my compensation award  I did set out my reasoning for 
awarding this level of compensation in my provisional findings. Theres nothing I feel needs 
to be added to that. But, in summary and to assist UKI in its understanding, Im satisfied that 
UKI failed Mrs G during the course of this claim, time and again, over a number of years, into 
a time of an unprecedented national pandemic and a period of extremely ill health for Mrs G. 
The impact of its failings on Mrs G was, in my view, severe such that my suggested award 
fairly and reasonably reflects that and is, therefore, in my view, justified.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mrs G:
£7,540 as a disturbance allowance for the period 23 January 2019 until 3 February 2020 
inclusive.
If this hasnt been done already, an amount to reimburse Mrs Gs hotel costs for her stay 
in December 2019, plus interest* from 25 December 2019 until settlement is made.
£560 as a disturbance allowance for the period of works still to be done.
£5,000, to cover the cost of all outstanding work not accounted for within the settlement 
of £15,585.39.
The settlement offer of £15,585.39.
£2,500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs G, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman