DRN-1611999
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim under a group income protection insurance 
policy which he had the benefit of.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr B became absent from work and was signed off by his GP with depression. 
He had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his then 
employer, which can pay out a portion of his income after hed been off work for 28 weeks 
(the deferred period). Mr B wasnt able to return to work by November 2018 and a claim 
was made to Unum under the policy before the expiry of the deferred period. 
Unum didnt think Mr Bs absence from work, throughout the entirety of the deferred period, 
was due to illness, so declined the claim. Mr B didnt think that was fair, so he initially asked 
for a review of Unums decision, and when that was unsuccessful, he appealed. Ultimately, 
Unum concluded that it was right to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Mr B complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B 
disagrees so his complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh and 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Before I explain why, I want to assure Mr B that my 
decision is in no way intended to be dismissive of the health issues hes suffered. It looks 
like hes been through a very difficult time. But for the reasons below, I dont think Unum has 
unfairly declined his claim.
Unum has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably decline 
a claim. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if they are unable, by reason of their illness to perform 
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation and is not performing 
any occupation
 
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member 
was actively undertaking for the employer immediately prior to incapacity
 Illness means: ill-health or disease as evidenced by a significant or objectively 
determined deterioration in physical or mental health.
 
So, the focus is very much on whether Mr B was unable to perform the role he was doing 
because of illness. Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available to me 
when considering whether Unum has unfairly declined Mr Bs claim. 
Unum has said the evidence doesnt support that he had an illness of such severity to 
prevent him from carrying out the required duties of his operational role throughout the 
deferred period.  
Most of the medical evidence during the deferred period (as well as the medical evidence 
obtained after Mr B requested a review of Unums decision to decline the claim) refers to his 
mental state being affected by work-related issues. 
Around the time Mr B was first signed off work by his GP, in May 2018, the GP notes reflect 
that there were work related issues and he doesnt enjoy work. 
Although theres also mention of some relationship issues, the referral letter from the GP to 
the consultant psychiatrist says Mr B believes:
that issues at work may be contributing to his recent mood disorder. He has moved to a 
new job within the same company at the start of the year but does not feel comfortable there. 
He is not enjoying work
Further, the consultant psychiatrist reports in June 2018 that:
I had previously met with Mr B in April 2013. The symptoms picture he was presenting with 
in the clinic today was very similar to those presented with in 2013. There was also work- 
related stress at that time
Thats not inconsistent with what Mr B said in support of his claim made on the policy, 
towards the end of the deferred period - in September 2018. As although he says that he 
couldnt say with confidence the cause of my condition he also says hes very anxious and 
worried about work and home matters. He refers to feeling like this, to a lesser degree, for a 
few months in 2013 and that he became very anxious about completing the volume of my 
work, in full and to the required standardtend to worry about work matters during the 
evening which affects my sleep
The occupational health report sent to Mr Bs then employer dated October 2018 also refers 
to Mr B reporting the work demands he was under before he started his sickness absence 
and lack of resources available (to help him do his job).
So, although Mr B had been signed off work by his GP, and not capable of attending his 
specific workplace, I dont think the evidence supports that he was unable to perform the role 
he was doing more generally for the entirety of the deferred period. Im therefore satisfied 
Unum has reasonably concluded that he wasnt incapacitated throughout that period. 
All in all, the evidence supports that the barrier to Mr Bs return to work during the deferred 
period was the work-related issues discussed in various medical records/ reports. Its likely 
the underlying issues he says he was experiencing leading up to his sickness absence 
wouldnt have existed if he was doing the same role at a different employer. After Mr B asked Unum to review its decision to decline his claim, it did ask further questions 
of his GP and consultant psychiatrist, which they both answered. The consultant psychiatrist 
said: at the time of the re-referral there was a clear association between work-related stress 
and his mood And although other life events were noted in their records including a 
friends bereavement and relationship issues, many of the symptoms relate to work-related 
stress
Mr B is also unhappy that Unum only contacted him via his then employer and it didnt speak 
to him directly about his symptoms. However, the policyholder was his then employer and 
thats who Unum had a contract of insurance with. So, although Mr B was a beneficiary of 
the group income protection insurance policy, I dont think Unum has done anything wrong 
by directing its communications to his then employer. In such situations, insurers do still 
sometimes arrange for one of its medical representatives to contact the beneficiary who is 
claiming on the policy to discuss their condition in greater detail, in order to assist with the 
assessment of the claim. But generally, whether they are contacted depends on the 
circumstances and what information it feels is needed to fairly assess the claim. Here, Im 
satisfied that there was no need for Unum to speak with Mr B about his symptoms as it fairly 
and reasonably relied upon the medical information it received when assessing and, 
ultimately, declining the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman