DRN-3957587
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice Lloyds Bank PLC gave to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
At the time of the events complained about the advising firm was operating under a different 
name. But as Lloyds is responsible for responding to the complaint I will only refer to it and 
not the other companys name in this decision.
Professional representatives have helped Mr S to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr S.
What happened
In 1990 after his former employer made him redundant Mr S spoke with Lloyds about 
investing his redundancy payment. Mr S says that at that time Lloyds also advised him to 
transfer his DB pension benefits to a named personal pension. Mr S accepted Lloyds advice 
and transferred his pension.
Mr S complained about Lloyds advice in 2022. Amongst other things he said:
Lloyds didnt gather enough information about him.
It didnt establish his attitude to risk.
It didn't discuss the fund he would be invested in or the risks associated with it.
It didnt explained the personal pension fees.
He had lost out significantly as a result of the transfer.
After initially rejecting Mr S complaint as being out of time, in July 2022, Lloyds sent him a 
substantive complaint response. It didnt uphold his complaint. In brief it said that it deemed 
a pension transfer suitable for him at the time.
Mr S didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. 
She didnt think we should uphold it. She thought that the advice to transfer was suitable for 
Mr S at that time.
Mr S disagreed, he said:
He wasn't a sophisticated investor and didnt understand that he could lose out by 
transferring. 
Its generally accepted that advice to transfer from a DB scheme is not best advice 
which led to an industry-wide Pensions Review of such cases.
Lloyds had intended to include Mr S in the Pensions Review and the most likely 
outcome would have been that it would have paid him compensation.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Having considered all the available evidence I'm minded not to uphold this complaint for 
broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
At the time of the advice the regulator was the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO). Its code of conduct said advisers should not advise customers to 
convert, cancel or allow to lapse any occupational pension, unless they genuinely believed it 
to be in the consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages of doing so. 
Financial viability
Lloyds gave its advice during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests (FVTs) used in that review are directly 
relevant here. At that time, the regulator's upper limit for an FVT was 12.7% per year for 21 
years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate for 
investment returns at the time was 13%, the middle projection 10.75%, and the lower 
projection rate 8.5% per year.
Owing to the passage of time the information Lloyds holds from the time of its advice is 
limited. But it does have evidence about Mr S entitlement from his DB scheme which shows 
that, at age 65, he was forecast to be entitled to a tax-free lump sum of £7,648 and a yearly 
pension of around £2,550.
Lloyds gave Mr S an illustration showing what he could expect to receive from reinvesting 
his pension funds into a named personal pension. That showed, based on the regulators 
lowest return of 8.5% that he could expect to receive a tax-free lump sum of £14,200 and a 
yearly pension of £4,790. If he achieved 13% growth per year this would increase to a 
£34,200 tax-free lump sum and £12,900 a year pension.
So, at the regulators lowest projection rate, Lloyds forecast that Mr S tax-free lump sum 
would increase by around 69% and his yearly pension by almost 88%. Mr S has said that he 
wasn't a sophisticated investor and didnt understand that he could lose out. But I don't think 
he needed to be a sophisticated investor to see that the figures Lloyds gave to him, which 
the regulator deemed reasonable at the time, showed he could be much better off in 
retirement by transferring. 
I can't be certain of exactly what risk warnings Lloyds gave to Mr S at the time, but it was 
common for pension materials such as policy documents etc to explain that investments can 
go up or down. And its notable that Mr S had also invested in unit trusts. And while this 
doesn't in any way make him a sophisticated investor, I think its likely that Lloyds would 
have explained to him that investing in any product, whether its a pension or a unit trust, 
always carries an element of risk. So, on the balance of probabilities, I think Mr S would have had an understanding that the fund(s) his pension was invested in can go down as well 
as up. And I think Mr S, most likely, would have also understood that the returns from 
reinvesting in a personal pension werent guaranteed. But  given the projected investment 
returns at the time the transfer appeared financially viable and so was in Mr S best interests.
Attitude to risk 
Mr S said that Lloyds didnt gather enough information about his circumstances nor assess 
his attitude to risk. Whilst Lloyds no longer holds detailed information about the process it 
went through when advising Mr S, it does have a fact-find document in which it recorded 
basic information about Mr S income and outgoings. It doesn't though have a record of 
assessing his attitude to risk. 
Mr S told us that his attitude to risk was low. The pension plan that Mr S was invested in had 
a low to medium risk rating, which would be suitable for a cautious investor. Its also notable 
that the unit trust fund that Mr S invested in at that time had a medium attitude to risk. So it 
appears that Mr S didnt wish to take as much risk with his pension as he did with his other 
investments. So, from the available evidence it would seem that Lloyds did assess his risk 
appetite and advised Mr S to invest in a pension which was suitable for that attitude to risk.
The Pensions Review 
Mr S said its generally accepted that advice to transfer from a DB scheme is not best 
advice. He added that Lloyds had intended to include Mr S within the Pensions Review 
scheme but, because it didnt hold his correct address at the time, it didnt do so. He said the 
likely outcome if it had included him in the review was Lloyds would have paid him 
compensation.
In 1994, the regulator at the time established an industry-wide review of particular pension 
business carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was 
generally known as the "Pensions Review. The intention was for the advising firms 
concerned to invite affected consumers to take part in the review.
The advice Lloyds gave to Mr S fell within the scope of the review. But, as Lloyds didnt hold 
his current address he didn't receive Lloyds invitation for it to review the sale of his pension 
in 1990. But Lloyds wasn't aware of that, so the opportunity to review his pension at that time 
was lost. That means that Lloyds didnt carry out a review of the sale.
The regulator recognised that advising firms had advised many consumers to transfer their 
DB scheme funds to private pensions when that advice wasnt suitable for them. But thats 
not to say that the advice to transfer in every case was unsuitable. And, as I've said above, 
the information held at the time showed that Mr S would be better off by transferring. 
Further, just because Lloyds had intended to include Mr S in its Pensions Review, doesn't 
mean that it would have found that the advice was unsuitable for him and paid him 
compensation. The purpose of the review was to establish whether or not the advice was 
suitable. It wasn't a foregone conclusion in every case that the advice was unsuitable. And, 
for the reasons given above, in this case it would appear that the advice was suitable. So I 
don't think it would be fair to conclude that the Pensions Review, if Lloyds had carried it out, 
would have resulted in it paying Mr S compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman