DRN-1946620
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2008 alongside a credit card. Mrs M says that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as 
Sainsburys Bank Drive, mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out. Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement and theres nothing on this to 
indicate Mrs M would have had to take PPI to get the credit card. Instead it gave Mrs M 
two equally clear options as to whether or not to take PPI. Mrs M ticked specifically to 
take PPI and signed the agreement.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So 
I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because BoS 
didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what shes said about having to 
take a pay cut from her employer at the time and that BoS thought she couldnt afford the 
repayments as they kept reducing her credit limit. But these points dont change my 
decision. While I appreciate that BoS may have gone on to reduce her credit limit, there is 
nothing to indicate that Mrs M couldnt afford the PPI at the time of the sale. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman