DRN-3328424
The complaint
Mr T complains One Call Claims Limited previously trading as Commercial Legal (OCC) 
have asked him to pay hire car charges following an accident. And a county court judgement 
(CCJ) was made against him without his knowledge. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr Ts partner was involved in an accident she said wasnt her fault. 
Mr Ts partner wasnt a named driver on his comprehensive motor insurance policy. But he 
said she was covered under her own comprehensive insurance policy for third party costs.
Mr T said when he called his insurer to report the accident after providing his details his 
partner took over the call.  She told OCC the third-party insurer (TPI) had accepted liability 
and she was put through to the non-fault department. Mr T said the TPI had told his partner 
that they would cover the repairs costs and hire car charges, but they were dissuaded from 
accepting this offer by OCC as they said the TPI would be looking to save costs for their 
policy holder. Mr T said because of this it was agreed for OCC to handle the claim.
Mr T said in a call he was told that they shouldnt have taken on the claim as it was his 
partner who was in the accident. And that any claim should be made to her insurer.
Mr T said he didnt hear anything further until he saw hed a missed call in March 2020 and 
called the number back. He was told it was OCC, they said they were calling about the 
accident and they confirmed his security details using his current postcode.  But the call got 
disconnected. It wasnt until February 2021 when bailiffs posted a letter to him that he found 
hed a CCJ against him. Mr T said he paid the bailiffs as the situation caused him extreme 
distress as he was worried about the impact of this on him and his family.  Mr T complained 
to OCC. 
OCC said theyd looked to pursue Mr Ts claim through the courts as the TPI was disputing 
liability. But he hadnt responded to either them or their solicitors so the court case couldnt 
progress. OCC said as Mr T had been uncooperative the costs of the hire vehicle, he had 
use of fell to him. They said Mr T had told his insurer of his change of address, but he hadnt 
updated his address with OCC.
Mr T wasnt happy about OCCs reply. He said theyd told him they couldnt deal with the 
claim. And he hadnt heard from them for nearly 12 months so he hadnt known they were 
still handling the claim. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said as Mr Ts partner was the driver, Mr Ts claim with his insurer should 
have been acknowledged as notification only. He didnt think OCC should have accepted 
the claim. He also said OCC had Mr Ts new address and as he hadnt been updated about 
what was happening, he couldnt be held responsible for the costs incurred. He said OCC 
should refund Mr T for the costs hed paid under the CCJ. And pay £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused to him.
OCC didnt respond to the investigators outcome, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Up until 31 March 2019, claims management companies (CMC) were regulated by the 
Claims Management Regulator. And complaints about CMCs were dealt with by the Legal 
Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and complaints moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the 
events Mr T is complaining about took place before this change in regulation, my decision is 
based on the approach the Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman would 
have taken. 
In making my decision about Mr Ts complaint Ive looked at the role OCC had in handling 
his claim. And to see if what they did was fair and reasonable. So, I wont make any 
comment on what was done by the TPI.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr T is being asked to pay hire car charges incurred after 
the accident. OCC said Mr T failed to  cooperate with them or their solicitors, so they couldnt 
take court action about liability for the accident. OCC said this meant they couldnt recover 
the hire car charges form the TPI. And as Mr T hadnt cooperated, they said he was liable for 
these costs. OCC has a CCJ against Mr T and a high court enforcement order.
I can understand Mr Ts frustration as he wasnt involved in the accident. his partner was. 
OCC have provided some evidence for consideration but not the call recordings that we 
requested. Mr T has provided call recordings sent to him. As both parties have this evidence, 
Ive considered it in my decision.
On the day of the accident, Mr T called his insurer to report the incident. In the call hes clear 
he wasnt the driver and his partner wasnt named on his insurance policy. But said she was 
covered to drive his car under her own insurance policy. Mr T is told by his insurer that this 
would be a notification only, and that his partner needed to let her insurer know. He was 
also told hed need to speak to a different team, but I didnt hear during the call an 
explanation as to why hed be referred to the other team. 
During the first notification call Mr Ts contact details were noted, he confirmed two mobile 
telephone numbers, his email address and home address. His partner was then put onto the 
call to go through what had happened. She also gave her mobile number for contact. During 
the call Mr Ts partner said that the third-party driver had disputed liability at the roadside. 
But reaffirmed that she wasnt at fault for the accident.
Mr T came back onto the call as he was concerned his insurance premium would increase. 
Again, he was told about  notification only, and his partner making a claim against her 
insurer under third party cover only. He was also told theyd need more details from the TPI 
before any definitive answer about his claim and the impact on his policy could be made. 
When the details had been captured the call was put through to the other team. But during 
this time the TPI had sent a message to Mr Ts partner to say they accepted liability. When Mr Ts partner said this had happened the call was referred for a second time to another 
team  their non fault side.- this being OCC, a CMC providing accident management 
services.
A CMC such as OCC would look to provide their customers with a hire vehicle, if needed 
and repair the damage caused to the vehicle by the accident  or determine the pre accident 
value of the vehicle if its deemed non repairable. And claim these costs back from the TPI.
Ive listened to the call between Mr Ts partner and OCC. When Mr Ts partner explains the 
TPI had accepted liability and that they were going to cover the repairs and hire costs, OCC 
tell her that they wouldnt take on her claim and would note it as  notification only. But 
comment that the TPI would be looking to save money on their clients claim for their policy 
holder. This caused Mr Ts partner some concern and she has a side conversation with      
Mr T. They agree to use the services of OCC. Its explained that as Mr Ts partner was 
driving under her extension to her insurance policy she couldnt make a claim under her 
comprehensive cover. But it wasnt explained or discussed as to any impact of only being 
covered to drive under the extension of her comprehensive claim. Or how Mr T would be 
impacted by this.
In the call OCC confirm with Mr Ts partner that theyd be able to cover any hire car costs 
themselves, explain that the hire agreement needed to be signed by the owner of the car 
and that the owner of the car would need to provide bank statements. 
So, I think its clear OCC knew it wasnt Mr T that was driving. And that his partner wasnt a  
named driver on his comprehensive insurance policy. I also heard OCC say that the TPI may 
try to scare them about having to pay the costs, and that that this would only happen if 
there was an issue with liability or they werent cooperative.
I can see from OCCs notes that in January 2019 the TPI challenged liability for the accident. 
And initially OCC considered accepting a 50/50 liability. But on checking the details of the 
claim, and Mr Ts partners account of the accident, in August 2019 I can see OCC retracted 
the 50/50 liability. OCC considered Mr Ts partner not to be at fault for the accident. Their 
notes assumed the insurer would cover the costs of the repairs but acknowledged that the 
driver wasnt covered on Mr Ts insurance policy.
Mr T said hed a call with the solicitors and been told they shouldnt have been dealing with 
the case as his partner wasnt on his insurance. From OCCs records I can see a letter from 
the solicitors dated February 2020 was sent to Mr T, but Mr T changed his address in 
November 2019 and this letter was addressed incorrectly as he had since moved. While I 
cant say this letter was received by Mr T, the first line of the letter said it was good to speak 
to you a moment ago. So, its clear that some contact was made. But I can see all 
subsequent correspondence about the pending court case was also sent to Mr Ts previous 
address. 
After an unsuccessful call was made by OCC  to Mr T in March 2020 a letter was sent out 
the same day that gave him a seven-day notice period to respond, the letter was again sent 
to Mr Ts previous address.
Mr T responded to the unsuccessful call as he called OCC back the same day. I have 
listened to the call. In it Mr T says hes calling back as hed a missed call but didnt know 
who was calling him. OCC make themselves known; ask Mr T if he has a claim with them, to 
which he responds no. OCC tell Mr T the call is about his accident in December 2018. And 
go through security with him. There is an issue confirming his address, but its clear from the 
recording that Mr T passes their security checks using the post code to his current address and not the previous address being used for correspondence. The call ended abruptly, not 
as OCC have said by Mr T ending the call, but I think due to a poor connection. 
OCC has said Mr T didnt update them about his change of address, hed only updated his 
insurer. But when OCC first spoke to Mr Ts partner, they didnt ask for any contact details. 
So, I think OCC had access to Mr Ts contact details from when Mr T had given or confirmed 
these details in the first notification call with his insurer.
I can see a record of the March 2020 call is in the case notes provided by OCC. As Mr T was 
verified through his current address details in this call, I think OCC by March 2020 was 
aware that Mr T had moved. There is only a record of one other unsuccessful call to Mr T 
after this and that was made later the same month. I havent seen any evidence from OCCs 
case notes that any further attempts were made to contact Mr T even though there were 
various other communication channels open to them to use. OCCs records dont show the 
telephone number they used to call Mr T but in the first notification call hed confirmed two 
contact telephone numbers and an email address. I havent seen any attempts by OCC to 
contract Mr T between March 2020 and September 2020 when OCC held Mr T in breach of 
his contract  again this letter was sent to his previous address.
Mr T said hed been told that the claim shouldnt have been referred to solicitors as his 
partner wasnt on his insurance. He also said he hadnt heard from OCC in over a year, until 
hed received a letter from bailiffs. And it was only then that he knew there had been a CCJ 
made against him. Im persuaded by Mr Ts account, as outlined above I can see there had 
been a call between him and the solicitors. And he hadnt received any other information 
after this call as it was all being sent to an address he no longer lived at. 
This has been a very distressing time for Mr T. I can understand his frustration as he wasnt 
involved in the accident, his car was. Hed reported the accident and been told by his insurer 
theyd record it as notification only.  And I dont think it was unreasonable for him to think 
any liability for the accident would need to be considered between the TPI and his partner, 
as he hadnt been in the car at the time of the accident. 
Also, any correspondence that may have explained to Mr T what was happening about the 
accident claim was all being sent to an address he no longer lived at. I think OCC could have 
used the other communication channels open to them, and should have correctly addressed 
correspondence to where Mr T was living, Im persuaded Mr T would have been cooperative 
as he wasnt the driver, his partner had been clear the accident hadnt been her fault. And 
OCC thought there was a strong case as they were looking to challenge liability in the court. 
So, taking all of this into account, on balance I dont think OCC has acted fairly or reasonably 
in their dealings with Mr T. 
Putting things right
I can understand Mr Ts frustration and the worry and upset that has been caused to him.  
Mr T said he was worried having a CCJ could affect his credit history and impact his ability to 
get a mortgage or rent another property for him and his family to live in. 
So, to put things right I think OCC should refund Mr T the costs hes paid under the CCJ.  
Remove the CCJ or make clear the situation about the CCJ on Mr Ts credit file . And pay  
Mr T £250 for the trouble and upset this caused him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask One Call Claims Limited to:refund any monies paid by Mr T resulting from the CCJ;
to have the CCJ set aside on Mr Ts credit file; and
pay Mr T £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman