DRN-3313652
The complaint and background
Ms A seeks to recover around £32,500 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from
her bank account in 2020 as the result of an investment scam.
The events that unfolded in this case are well known to both parties, so I dont intend on 
detailing them here. Instead, Ive focused on the key points that are material to reaching my 
decision  our rules allow me to do so. 
In summary, Ms As complaint concerns six international payments made from her HSBC 
account between 28 February 2020 and 11 May 2020. Ms A made these transactions in 
exchange for what she thought was investments in commodities such as gold and oil, having 
been convinced to invest by an outfit by the name of Global Markets. 
It turned out that this firm was operating a scam and Ms As money was lost. She realised 
this when she could no longer reach Global Markets and her withdrawal requests had been 
unsuccessful. Ms A reported this to HSBC in early June 2020. 
HSBC declined to refund Ms A, because it said it followed its obligation to process these 
authorised transactions as per her instructions. Upon bringing the dispute to our service, one 
of our investigators concluded that HSBC should return all but 20% of the payments lost, 
because he thought HSBC should have done more to protect Ms As account from the scam. 
Ms A agrees with this assessment. 
HSBC does not agree  however, it omitted to explain exactly why. I take from this that the 
bank has not accepted our assessment, so the matter has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
relevant considerations
 Its common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Ms A for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), in force at the time. 
These must be regarded as authorised payments, even if Ms A believes she was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
 Banks such as HSBC have a duty to execute authorised payment requests correctly 
and promptly, so that legitimate transactions are made in accordance with a 
consumers instructions. 
 Even so, there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that 
something wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding 
the transaction before making the payment. Accordingly, Ive looked into what this 
means for this case and whether HSBC should have done more to prevent the 
payments in question.
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
 I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate transactions. 
The systems and procedures HSBC puts in place to manage those competing 
demands are a matter for the bank. That said, it is neither unfair nor unreasonable to 
expect a bank to double-check payment instructions that ought reasonably to trigger 
concerns as to whether they are unusual or uncharacteristic for the particular 
customer and/or account history.
 In light of the payment values involved in relation to how Ms A normally operated her 
account, I think HSBC ought to have identified the risk of harm from the very first 
payment; that being, £7,777. This was a highly unusual and uncharacteristic amount 
compared with the recent history on the account. Especially, given that it was a 
payment overseas that equated to more than double of the highest outlay in the past 
twelve months (if ever). Overall, I am satisfied there were reasonable grounds for 
HSBC to suspect fraud or a scam, and therefore justify an intervention at this point.
causation
 Having concluded that HSBC ought to have intervened with this first payment on     
28 February 2020, next I need to determine what difference (if any) such an 
intervention wouldve made. This is otherwise known as causation. In order for me 
to require HSBC to refund the disputed payments on the grounds of causation, I 
need to be satisfied that the bank stepping in wouldve prevented the loss here.
 I do consider the level and depth of questioning ought to be proportionate to the 
situation. I accept that there is a balance to strike  and Im not suggesting Ms A 
shouldve been subjected to an interrogation by bank staff. Therefore, Ive thought 
carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by HSBC would have made a difference. In my view, 
it would have been proportionate for bank staff to have asked Ms A to provide details 
such as to whom the money was being paid and why it was an international payment.
 I have no reason to think that Ms A wouldve averted questioning or been obstructive 
to the banks queries  everything suggests she wouldve been open about how her 
association with Global Markets had come about. It follows that I find it likely she 
wouldve revealed that she had been promised very high profits (around 15% per 
annum), based on her trading on commodities using an online platform that the      
so-called brokers had set up for her, having provided her proof of address and ID. 
 As well as this, Ms A had been instructed to send money to accounts held in the 
name of Bit2Bit OU, among others. Yet, these various account names did not 
match the trading name of Global Markets itself. In simpler terms, Ms A was 
instructed to send money overseas to account identities that did not correlate to the 
investment scheme she was being enticed into.    As a bank that often sees all types of fraud, Im satisfied that appropriate questioning 
would have made it apparent to HSBC that this had the hallmarks of a common and 
well-known investment scam. 
 Had the bank carried out its due diligence and intervened with this first payment, I 
think its more likely than not that bank staff would have become suspicious about 
these payment instructions. Particularly, given the apparent discrepancy between 
where the money was intended to be paid and where in fact it was instructed to go.  
 Whats more, its evident from the emails that Ms A shared with the scammers that 
Global Markets specifically asked her to download an application called AnyDesk. 
This softwares purpose was to grant remote access to Ms As computer, so that 
Global Markets could control the device remotely. 
 Without a doubt, its extremely unlikely that a genuine investment scheme would ask 
a consumer to download an application that gave it the ability to control their 
computer remotely. Suffice to say, the mention of remote access, in the context of a 
speculative investment, ought to have made it apparent to HSBC that this had the 
distinctive features of an array of scams. 
 Under these circumstances, Im persuaded that, if bank staff had sought to establish 
further details about this first transaction, it seems highly probable that the scam 
would have been exposed there and then, thereby preventing any losses. Ms A 
would not have lost the £7,777 and she also wouldnt have been persuaded to send 
the subsequent payments that were lost thereafter.
contributory negligence
 Finally, theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions. With this in mind, I have duly considered whether Ms A should bear some 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence. 
 Notwithstanding my findings above, I do think that Ms A was partly to blame for what 
happened. She completed some online research of Global Markets. But by her own 
admission, she relied heavily on hearsay  shes conceded that, despite being an 
inexperienced investor, she did not thoroughly research the credibility of this firm. 
This was despite investing her life savings into what was put to her as a high-risk and 
volatile scheme, with what appear to be profits that were too good to be true. 
 That being the case, in these particular turn of events, its my judgment that Ms A can 
reasonably be held partially responsible for the situation she now finds herself in. I 
think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 20% on the basis that Ms A should 
share some blame for what happened. I agree with our investigator that this 
constitutes a commensurate deduction in compensation.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, its my judgment that HSBC should reimburse Ms A the six 
disputed payments, less 20%. In other words, Ms A should receive 80% of the £32,505.72 
that was lost. 
Also, I find it appropriate that HSBC add 8% simple interest (per year) to this sum to 
recognise the loss of use of these funds. This should be calculated from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1. Refund the six payments in question, minus a 20% deduction for contributory 
negligence; and
2. Add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman