DRN-3152066
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty between 2012 and 
2015.
What happened
Mrs S complained to HSBC that it acted unfairly when continuing to charge her when she 
was in financial difficulty between 2012 and 2015 and whilst she was also suffering from a 
serious health condition.  
HSBC said it had already refunded charges on previous occasions when a complaint had 
been raised between 2010 and 2013 and in any case it could only look at overdraft charges 
over the last six years. It says all the charges in this period were applied correctly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account and it didnt agree to refund any further 
charges. Mrs S was dis-satisfied with this and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC should have stopped charging 
overdraft fees from December 2014 as by this point it was clear Mrs S was in financial 
difficulty. 
As a gesture of goodwill HSBC made an offer to refund charges based on the time period 
complained about (from 1 December 2014 to 31 December 2015).  Mrs S didnt accept the 
offer - and asked for an ombudsmans decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have. And we may award modest compensation that we think is fair and 
reasonable.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this case from 
December 2014. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest 
per year.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
HSBC has already agreed to refund Mrs S charges for the period she complained about. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether there were periods following this where HSBC didnt treat 
Mrs S fairly and reasonably and applied charges when it ought to have been aware she was 
in financial difficulty still. And I dont think there are.  
I can see from her statements that from January 2016 onwards she was able to bring her 
account into credit regularly before again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card 
transactions and further money transfers. Mrs S may argue her regular use of her overdraft 
was in itself an indication that she was struggling. But while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mrs S expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs S wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to 
any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to Ms Fs account each 
month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at 
any stage either.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Ss account was being used 
from January 2016. 
And I dont think that Mrs Ss unhappiness at having to pay overdraft fees, even after her 
complaint has been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual 
approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mrs S to decide whether she 
wishes to accept HSBCs offer.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman