DRN-4037143
The complaint
Mr F complains about delays in Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) arranging repairs to his car
following a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F contacted Aviva in November 2021 to make a claim. His car was driveable but had
incurred damage that required a repair. Mr F says he contacted Aviva many times by email
and by phone. He says his emails werent responded to and despite a personal claims
officer being assigned to his claim, the service didnt improve.
Mr F says by the end of January 2022 a garage had yet to be allocated to complete the
repairs. He says Aviva suggested a garage that was 1.5 hours away from his home, which
he didnt agree to due to the fuel cost and inconvenience this would cause him.
In its complaint response dated 11 January 2022 Aviva apologised it was unable to book a
closer repairer. It says that unfortunately all garages closer to Mr F were fully booked. It says
it does allow a 50-mile radius when booking its customers into one of its repairers, but it
appreciates the suggested garage would involve a long drive.
Aviva says its sorry Mr F had to complain about the distance to the repairer, trouble getting
booked-in, and the lack of communication. To acknowledge this, it offered him £125
compensation.
Mr F didnt think Aviva had done enough and contacted our service. He says he needs his
claim to be sorted out - rather than Aviva paying him off with compensation offers. Our 
investigator upheld his claim. He thought Aviva had taken an unreasonably long time to 
handle Mr Fs claim. Because of this he thought £225 represents a fair compensation 
payment.
Aviva didnt agree. It says Mr Fs repairs were authorised at his choice of garage when its
approved repairers couldnt do the work. It thought £125 compensation was reasonable.
Because it didnt agree with our investigator Aviva asked for an ombudsman to consider the
complaint. Mr F asked for the same.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
The records show Mr F contacted Aviva to make his claim toward the end of November
2021. Ive read the contact notes provided by Aviva. These show that it struggled to allocate
a garage from its network of approved repairers to complete the work. A contact on 13
December 2021 says Mr F identified a garage close to him. Avivas agent noted that the
garage couldnt be found on its system.
A note on 15 December 2021 says Mr F didnt want to be without his car over Christmas.
The agent recorded that the repairs would look to be booked in for the new year. The next
note refers to the complaint response and the £125 compensation offer Aviva had made in
January 2022.
The records then refer to the garage that was around 50 miles away. Mr F didnt agree to
using this garage due to the distance involved, which I think is understandable. On 2
February 2022 the records show Aviva agreed to appoint a garage Mr F had identified  this
was done following its non-approved repairer process. Mr F has shown that his car was
booked in at this garage in April 2022. I understand the repairs took just over a week to
complete.
Im not able to consider what happened in the period after Mr F received his final complaint
response. Im glad the repairs were eventually completed, and he didnt have to drive a long
way for this to happen. But my focus here is Avivas claim handling for the period up until it
sent its complaint response in January 2022. I note Mr F raised a further complaint, which
our service forwarded to Aviva on his behalf. I understand he hasnt received a response to
this. However, he will need to pursue that complaint separately with our service should he
want to do so.
Mr F says he contacted Aviva on a number of occasions by email and by phone to try and
progress his claim. I have no reason to dispute what he says. Its clear the availability of a
suitable repairer was the main problem and reason for the delays. I think its likely Mr F had
more contact with Aviva than indicated in its system records. And I can understand why he
was frustrated by the delay in appointing a repairer. But from the information provided, I
dont think this is something that couldve been avoided.
Aviva shouldve ensured Mr F was appropriately updated. It didnt do so. But I dont think this
impacted on the availability of a repairer, which is what caused the delay.
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Mr F. He says he was caused stress and
suffered from sleepless nights. I dont doubt that this was a stressful experience for Mr F,
and he was inconvenienced by the contact he had to make with Aviva.
I can see that Mr F was able to drive his car whilst waiting for the repairs to be arranged. So,
he wasnt caused inconvenience in this respect. But I think its fair for Aviva to compensate
Mr F for the frustration and inconvenience caused by its poor communication. In these
circumstances I think its offer of £125 is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva responded to say it accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr F responded to say he had received my provisional decision. However, he didnt confirm 
if he accepted it and didnt provide further comment or information for me to consider. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman