DRN-4184441
The complaint
Mr T complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline his application 
to increase the cover available under his personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the main issues.
In 2020, Mr T took out a personal income protection insurance policy with Aviva. Shortly 
afterwards, he had to make a claim for benefit after he became unfit for work due to tinnitus. 
Initially, Aviva cancelled Mr Ts policy, as it considered he hadnt fully disclosed his medical 
history at the time he applied for the policy. However, it later agreed to reinstate the policy, 
which included an exclusion for stress and anxiety and other conditions it considered to be 
associated with stress and anxiety. It accepted Mr Ts claim and settled it, without requiring 
Mr Ts full medical records or financial information  which meant it settled the claim on an 
ex-gratia basis.
Subsequently, in June 2021, Mr T applied to increase his cover level. Mr T says he was told 
that this would need to be treated as a new policy application and that any increased cover 
would run as a new policy alongside the existing one.
Aviva turned down Mr Ts application. It said that given Mr Ts noted medical conditions of 
stress and anxiety; back pain for which he was awaiting the results of an MRI and tinnitus; it 
would have needed to apply three exclusions to the policy. This was above its risk threshold 
and so it wasnt prepared to offer increased cover.
Mr T was unhappy with Avivas decision and he complained. He didnt think the policy terms 
included underwriting criteria and he felt the exclusions Aviva wouldve applied to his 
contract were at odds with the wider exclusion applied to his existing policy. In addition, he 
considered that the exclusion added to his existing policy was unclear and ambiguous.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint and so he asked us to look into his concerns.
Our investigator concluded that Mr T had brought some of his complaint to our service too 
late. She noted that Aviva had issued a final response to Mr Ts complaint about the way his 
claim had been handled in February 2021. This letter had also dealt with the terms on which 
that policy had been set-up. Aviva had given Mr T referral rights to raise those issues with 
our service within six months of that letter. And Mr T had made a new complaint about the 
way that applications were dealt with by Aviva. A final response was issued to that complaint 
in March 2022  again providing referral rights to our service, within six months of that letter. 
But Mr T hadnt complained to us until February 2023  more than six months after the date 
of both letters. And so the investigator felt that we couldnt look into those particular 
complaint points under our rules.
The investigator thought we could consider Mr Ts complaint about Avivas decision not to 
increase his cover level and the omission of underwriting criteria from the policy terms. She 
didnt think Aviva was required to set out its underwriting guidelines in the policy booklet. 
And she explained why she was satisfied that Aviva had provided enough evidence to show 
why Mr T exceeded its risk threshold. She didnt think there was evidence to suggest that Mr 
T had been singled out unfairly. And she concluded it had been reasonable for Aviva not to 
increase Mr Ts cover.
Mr T disagreed and Ive summarised his responses. He considered that the exclusions Aviva 
would have applied to any new policy were ambiguous and discriminatory under the Equality 
Act 2010. He didnt think it had provided evidence to show that information it had relied upon 
was relevant, reliable or reasonable. He considered that the exclusion which had been 
applied to his original policy was medically incorrect. He didnt agree that we couldnt look 
into the terms of the original policy. Thats because he said the issue with the original 
exclusion being unfair and discriminatory had only arisen after the application for an increase 
in Mr Ts cover level had been declined. He also didnt think it was fair for Aviva to treat 
tinnitus separately, as he said it was widely considered to be linked to mental health 
conditions and so it should fall under the original policy exclusion.
Additionally, Mr T considered that exceptional circumstances applied which meant we should 
look into his time-barred complaints. He said that the complaints had been made against the 
background of a pandemic. And he also noted that Aviva had continued to correspond with 
him after it had issued its final responses to his complaints. He said all he wanted was the 
opportunity to have his salary covered in the same way a person without a disability could.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Ill firstly consider the issue of our jurisdiction. 
And secondly, Ill consider whether I think it was fair for Aviva to decline to increase Mr Ts 
cover level.
My findings on jurisdiction
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In this part of my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr T's complaint.
Our service isn't free to consider every complaint that's brought to us. We're governed by 
rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They're called the 
DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. The rules set out the complaints that 
we can (and can't) look into.
DISP rule 2.8.2 states that the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot consider a complaint if 
its referred to us more than six months after the date of the financial business final 
response letter unless that business consents to us looking into it. In this case, Aviva hasnt 
consented to us considering the complaint points that its final response letters of February 
2021 and March 2022 addressed. The issues covered by the February 2021 final response 
letter were the handling of Mr Ts claim and the terms on which the income protection policy 
had been set-up. And the second final response addressed the way that Aviva handled 
policy applications.
Both of Avivas final response letters told Mr T that he had six months from the date of each 
letter to refer his complaint to this service. That meant that Mr T had until August 2021 to 
complain to us about the claims handling and the terms on which the policy was set-up. And 
he had until September 2022 to refer a complaint to us about the way Aviva dealt with policy 
applications. But Mr T didnt complain to us about these specific issues until February 2023, 
which was more than six months after the date of each final response. On that basis, I find 
that Mr T brought these particular complaint points out of time.
The rules say I can set the time limit aside if Im satisfied a consumers failure to comply with them was as a result of exceptional circumstances. There is no definitive list of what would 
be considered to be exceptional circumstances but the rules gives an example of where a 
consumer might have been incapacitated.
Mr T says that these complaint points werent referred in time because correspondence had 
continued between him and Aviva after the final responses had been issued. He said he 
thought he had to exhaust the complaints process fully before approaching our service. He 
also said that dealing with the issues caused by the Covid-19 pandemic had taken up a lot of 
his time and focus. He also said the complaint point about the exclusion hadnt arisen until 
he tried to apply for the new policy.
Ive thought about Mr Ts comments carefully. But I dont think I could fairly find that these 
were exceptional circumstances. I think Aviva made it very clear that if Mr T wished to 
pursue the complaints, hed need to refer them to us. And it remains the case that both he, 
and a representative, were able to contact Aviva during the relevant timeframe. So I think it 
follows that Mr T likely could have sent us a brief email or made a quick call to register his 
complaints within the applicable six month periods. 
On that basis, I dont think exceptional circumstances apply and my decision is that Mr Ts 
complaint points about the terms on which his 2020 policy were set-up and how Aviva 
handles applications were made too late. While I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T, I find that I dont have the power to consider those particular issues. 
As such, I wont be looking into whether the 2020 policy exclusion was fairly applied or 
whether its ambiguous and medically wrong. Mr T appeared to accept Avivas underwriting 
terms, which included the exclusion and the final response letter made clear the terms on 
which cover would apply following the assessment of the claim. So if hed felt the exclusion 
had been unfairly applied, he had six months following the final response of February 2021 
to complain to us about that issue.
If Mr T wishes to send the medical evidence hes gathered regarding the conditions set out 
within the exclusion to Aviva for its consideration, its open to him to do so. I say that 
because it isnt at all clear that Aviva has had an opportunity to review or comment on all of 
the NHS 111 evidence Mr T has sent us. 
Ill now proceed to consider the complaint point I do have the power to look into. Thats 
whether or not it was fair for Aviva to decline to increase Mr Ts cover limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr T, I dont think Aviva has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
Its clear that increasing the level of cover available under income protection was very 
important to Mr T. I dont doubt how upsetting it was for him when Aviva didnt agree to offer 
him a new policy to sit alongside his existing income protection insurance cover.
But its important that I make it clear that were not the industry regulator. This means we 
dont have the power to tell a financial business how it should operate; what products it 
should offer or what prices it should charge. And we cant tell insurers what policies they can 
offer or which risks they should and shouldnt accept. In Mr Ts case, it means that I cant 
simply direct Aviva to amend Mr Ts existing policy to increase the benefit level. Nor that I 
can tell it to set-up a new policy for Mr T when its demonstrated that it wouldnt otherwise have done so. I also cant require Aviva to set-up a new policy on exactly the same basis, or 
to apply the same exclusion to a new policy which apply to the existing one, given its 
entitled to underwrite each new policy application based on its underwriting terms.
Id add too that insurers arent required or obliged to set out their underwriting criteria within 
their contract terms. Thats because underwriting information is generally commercially 
sensitive to an insurers business. This isnt unusual  in my experience, it would be very 
unlikely that any insurer would include underwriting guidance within their contract 
documents. And I wouldnt reasonably expect Aviva to set out how it rates risk when it 
assesses income protection applications.
What I can do though is to look at the underwriting guidance Aviva has relied upon when 
deciding whether or not to offer Mr T a new policy and whether its done so fairly. This is so 
that I can be satisfied that Mr T has been treated in the same way as any other Aviva 
customer in similar circumstances and hasnt been singled out in any way.
Aviva has provided me with detailed, underwriting evidence which shows the reasons why it 
declined to offer Mr T a new policy to increase his cover level. This information is 
commercially sensitive and so Im afraid its confidential. Therefore, Im unable to share the 
evidence with Mr T. What I can tell Mr T is that Aviva has demonstrated that based on the 
information it holds about his existing medical conditions and medical history, it would have 
applied three exclusions to any new policy. And its underwriting guidance clearly shows that 
Aviva is unable to offer income protection cover to any customer for this type of policy if 
more than two exclusions would apply. On that basis, I find that Aviva declined to offer Mr T 
increased cover in line with its own underwriting guidance. Im satisfied too that it wouldve 
declined to increase cover for any other customer in Mr Ts circumstances and so I dont 
think Aviva singled Mr T out or treated him unfairly.
I appreciate Mr T disagrees with the number of exclusions that Aviva calculated would apply, 
given the one exclusion it applied to the original policy. Im not a medical expert and so it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell Aviva how it should categorise medical risks. But from 
Mr Ts application form, it seems that he was taking painkillers for back pain, had undergone 
an MRI to investigate the cause and was waiting for the scan results. Accordingly, Mr Ts 
back pain appears to have remained an undiagnosed condition at the point of application. So 
I think it was reasonable for Aviva to treat back pain under investigation as a separate and 
specific exclusion. Mr T had disclosed anxiety and depression when he took out the 2020 
policy and so I find it was reasonable for Aviva to accordingly exclude these conditions when 
considering any new application. And theres no dispute that Aviva had already settled a 
claim (whether on an ex-gratia basis or not) for Mr Ts tinnitus, which appeared to develop 
between the start of the 2020 policy and the date of the application to increase cover. As 
such then, again, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to conclude that this too would be 
excluded on any new policy. 
It isnt unusual for income protection insurers to exclude some conditions from cover which 
exist at the time an application is made. Thats because the insurer thinks theres a higher 
risk of claim from a condition which has already been diagnosed and which a policyholder 
already suffers from.
Mr T says he feels that Aviva has treated him unfairly to the point of discrimination.  I can 
understand why Mr T feels this way, but, having looked at all the evidence, I dont think 
Aviva has done so. And taking into account my findings above, nor do I think Aviva has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. I do hope that it helps Mr T to know that someone impartial 
and independent has looked into his concerns.Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ts position, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva 
to conclude that it wasnt prepared to increase his cover. In any event, I wouldnt expect 
Aviva to pay the full amount of Mr Ts salary in the event of a claim. I say that because 
income protection insurance generally pays out a set proportion of an insured persons 
earnings while a claim is in payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman