DRN-3548624
The complaint
Ms A and Mr A complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy. When I mention RSA I also means its 
suppliers.
What happened
Ms A and Mr A have a home insurance policy with RSA covering their household contents. 
Ms A and Mr A damaged their TV and made a claim to RSA for it. RSA accepted the claim 
and agreed to replace the TV with a new one under the contents replacement cover.
The new TV was delivered to Ms A and Mr A. They expected that the new TV was going to 
be installed for them, but RSAs supplier hadnt received instructions to do that. Ms A and Mr 
A asked RSA to install the TV and RSA said they should arrange for installation themselves, 
and it would refund the cost. Ms A and Mr A didnt unpack the new TV and left it inside the 
box.
Ms A and Mr A then arranged for a third party installer to come and fix the new TV to the wall 
about two weeks later. When the TV installer came, they unpacked the box and found that 
the TV was damaged on the rear.
Also, the replacement TV was a different colour to the old one. Ms A and Mr A also said they 
believed it was a smaller size from their old TV.
Ms A and Mr A complained to RSA. It told them that they should have unpacked and 
checked the TV within 48 hours of delivery and it had sent them an email about this. Ms A 
and Mr A say they didnt receive this email.
Because Ms A and Mr A hadnt checked the TV as theyd been told to, RSA said it couldnt 
do anything more. It did say Ms A and Mr A could make a new claim for the damage to the 
new TV, which would be subject to a further excess of £200.
Ms A and Mr A also complained about RSAs service saying that theyd experienced rude 
and unprofessional service at times. RSA didnt agree that its service was rude and 
unprofessional, but it said some of the service Ms A and Mr A had wasnt as good as RSA 
would have liked.
Ms A and Mr A ask for a new TV to be supplied to them by RSA as they do not wish to make 
a new claim and pay another excess. 
As Ms A and Mr A remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He said Ms A and Mr A hadnt asked for 
installation and RSA hadnt offered it. He looked into the details of RSAs policy and said he 
thought that RSA had fairly replaced the TV under its policy terms. He was satisfied that 
RSA had told Ms A and Mr A to check the TV within 48 hours of its arrival, and he didnt find 
that RSAs service had been rude and unprofessional, but he did think some of the calls 
could have been handled better.
Ms A and Mr A didnt accept the view. They asked that their case was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Ms A and Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
In order to make a final decision, I have divided Ms A and Mr As complaint into sections and 
will deal with each one in turn.
The replacement TV
I have looked at some of the specifications of both Ms A and Mr As old TV and the new one 
supplied by RSA, and I can see that the TVs are of the same brand and size, and many of 
the features of the new one are improved over the old one.
Given the type of technology used in their old TV I can understand why they say the new 
one is smaller and not as good, but from the evidence I have I think that the new TV seems 
to be a fair replacement for the old one.
Ms A and Mr A have also said they are unhappy because the new TV is a different colour 
from their old one. 
When I look at RSAs policy wording I can see the following phrase is used to describe its 
replacement policy:
If the damage can't be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item can be 
replaced, we'll replace it. And if a replacement isn't available, we'll replace it with an 
item of similar quality.
I think its clear from RSAs wording that it cant guarantee an exact replacement for a 
damaged item. So I think RSA have acted fairly in replacing the old TV with the new one 
according to the specifications I have seen, and I think this phrase from the policy means 
RSA are able to replace it with a similar item, even if it means the item is a different colour. 
I think RSA have fairly and reasonably and in accordance with its terms and conditions here.
The damage to the replacement TV
Ms A and Mr A have said the replacement TV wasnt unpacked for about two weeks after it 
arrived. When their third party installer came to fit it, they found there was damage to the 
back of the TV. Because Ms A and Mr A hadnt checked the TV and reported the damage to 
RSA within 48 hours, RSA said it couldnt be held responsible for the damage. It says it told 
Ms A and Mr A by email they should check the TV within 48 hours of delivery.
RSA have provided this service with a copy of the wording it says was sent in an email to Ms 
A and Mr A. In the wording there is a line, which is in bold to bring it to the readers attention, 
saying: 
We kindly ask that you check all delivered items within 48 hours of receipt. We will be unable to accept liability for any damages after this time.
In the evidence sent by RSA it mentions why it uses this phrase. Its because a TV might be 
delivered, left in its box unchecked, and then damaged in the home. I dont dispute Ms A and 
Mr As account of events. But I must also consider that as the TV remained in their 
possession for about two weeks, its possible the damage couldve occurred whilst they had 
it 
Ive read Ms A and Mr As policy terms and conditions and I cant see a reference to a 
timeframe during which damage to replacement goods should be reported. But I do think its 
reasonable for a customer to check a delivery so that any damage can be identified and 
reported within a reasonable timeframe.  
Essentially, neither party can prove how or when the TV was damaged. But I think its fair to 
say that had Ms A and Mr A inspected the TV when it arrived, then the damage would have 
become apparent and RSA could have arranged for a replacement from its supplier. I dont 
think its reasonable to hold RSA responsible for the damage given that the TV was in Ms A 
and Mr As possession uninspected for about two weeks.
I know Ms A and Mr A have said they werent made aware of RSAs 48-hour timeframe for 
reporting damage, but I have seen a copy of the information that was sent. I dont think its 
unreasonable for RSA to use a phrase like this and I think it has been fairly brought to Ms A 
and Mr As attention.
Ms A and Mr A have also said they asked that the TV was installed for them by RSA, and in 
which case RSAs installer would have found the damage straight away when the TV was 
unpacked. Ive not been able to listen to the call between Ms A and Mr A and RSAs 
suppliers, but from the evidence I have, its my understanding that Ms A and Mr A didnt 
request the installation to happen when they made the claim.
In summary, I think RSA has reasonably protected itself by requiring Ms A and Mr A to report 
damage within 48 hours and I think it has acted fairly. 
Second claim
RSA have also said that Ms A and Mr A could make a new claim covering the damage to the 
replacement TV. Ms A and Mr A have said that they arent willing to do this because of the 
further excess they would need to pay. 
Given my decisions above about the quality of the replacement TV and the damage that 
happened to it, I think RSA have acted reasonably and given Ms A and Mr A a solution. But I 
do understand Ms A and Mr As position that having to pay a further £200 excess is 
disappointing.
Claims service
I have listened to a call between RSA and Ms A and Mr As, in which Ms A and Mr A say 
RSAs claims handler was rude and unprofessional. Theres a lot of background noise during 
the call and its quite difficult to hear and understand exactly what was being asked because 
of this. 
The claims handler does try to bring the call to an end because of the noise, and I can 
understand how the call might have appeared rude to Ms A and Mr A. But I can see that 
RSA has apologised for how it handled some of the calls with Ms A and Mr A and has 
provided feedback where necessary. I think this is a fair and reasonable approach to take, and Im not going to ask RSA to do 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman