DRN-2657171
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited (Sun Life) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
Mr L also complains that the compensation he has been given as part of the personal 
pension review was not adequate. 
What happened
Mr L was advised by Sun Life in 1992 in respect of his pension planning. Sun Life advised 
Mr L to transfer his pension benefits into two personal pensions and invest the proceeds in 
Sun Lifes Unitised With-Profits fund.  
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 
30 June 1994. It was generally known as the Pension Review. It aimed to address concerns 
about the possible widespread mis-selling of personal pension plans between these dates. 
Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that 
firms had to use to determine if any redress was due.
In 2000 Mr Ls pension was included in the pension review and, as a result, he was offered 
compensaion. Sun Life determined that Mr Ls personal pension benefits were worth less 
than his DB scheme benefits. And they paid him £11,780 compensation to rectify this. Mr L 
accepted this compensation in full and final settlement. 
Mr L, via his representative, complained in 2020 to Sun Life about the transfer. He said that, 
in summary: 
The advice to transfer out wasnt suitable as it exposed him to the risk of a 
significantly lower retirement income. 
The fund used wasnt suitable as it was a complex and high cost managed fund, Sun 
Life should have used more than one fund. 
It has been accepted that the advice wasnt suitable. But the redress paid as part of 
the personal pension review hasnt come close to rectifying the loss he has suffered. 
Sun Life didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that the pension review calculations looked to have been correctly performed, given the 
guidance and assumptions that the regulator required Sun Life to use at the time. As the 
review was performed correctly, it wouldnt be fair to ask Sun Life to review the advice a 
second time. 
Mr Ls representative disagreed. It said that future charges were not included in the loss 
assessment calculation and that there were many examples of cases where reviews have 
been incorrectly performed and the regulator has requested that a business review the case 
and do things properly. This should apply here. 
The investigator noted that future charges were taken account of in the loss assessment. 
And she wasnt otherwise persuaded to change her opinion. So, the complaint was referred 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
Sun Life accepted that the advice Mr L received may have been unsuitable and has 
calculated, and paid, compensation for this. The Pension Review was created to look at 
potential mis-selling, so Mr Ls complaint isnt different, his situation is what the Pension 
Review was designed for. And as the investigator explained, Sun Life isnt required to look at 
the advice they gave him again.
The intention was that the Pension Review would compensate Mr L for the losses he would 
later experience when he came to retire. The regulator provided assumptions for firms to use 
when carrying out the loss calculations. These assumptions attempted to predict future loss 
by determine things like future investment returns. Unfortunately, some of the assumptions 
used in the Pension Review calculations havent, in hindsight, turned out as expected. 
Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity rates have fallen.
But I'm afraid this doesn't mean Sun Life must redo the calculation. Under the terms of the 
Pensions Review, they were only required to conduct the review once, using the
standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the 
assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the 
future loss. The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis- 
selling and would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a pension review 
on a policy, they werent required to review it again.
Sun Life has provided a copy of the calculations it performed, and they dont seem to have 
been done incorrectly. So, Sun Life also doesnt have to redo the calculation for this reason. 
I am sorry to hear that Mr L may be worse off even after the redress he was paid but as the 
transfer has been reviewed as it was required to be by the regulators at the time, I wont be 
asking Sun Life to look at it again.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman