DRN-3853673
The complaint
Mr S complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) acted unfairly concerning 
the air-mile reward programme attached to his credit card account.
  
What happened
Mr S has a Virgin Atlantic reward credit card account which provides air-mile reward points 
whenever its used. The card was opened in June 2019. If Mr S spends £20,000 during a 
year, he would be entitled to a reward such as a companion flight or flight upgrades. 
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr S said he was unable to spend the £20,000 
during the year, but he was able to achieve this shortly after in July 2020. He said given the 
unforeseen event of the pandemic, VM shouldve extended the time period to achieve the 
above. Mr S also said he had been wrongly told by an agent that he had spent the required 
£20,000 during a year meaning he was entitled to a reward. Mr S complained.
VM said Mr S wasnt eligible for the companion flight reward as he had only spent around 
£14,500 during the 12 month period. However they accepted their agent had provided 
incorrect information regarding him being eligible for the companion reward.  They agreed to 
credit his account £50 by way of compensation for their error.
Unhappy with their response, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They concluded VM acted fairly and in line with 
the terms of the account in regard to the reward. They also felt the £50 compensation was 
fair. 
Mr S disagreed and maintained his position. He also commented VM provided additional 
time for those who already had companion flight rewards so it wouldve been fair for VM to 
apply the same approach in this case. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe VM has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why.
As a starting point, Ive reviewed the terms of the account. It says:
If you spend £20,000 or more on card purchases over 12 months, youll earn a reward. You 
can only earn one reward every 12 months. The 12 months resets on each anniversary of 
the date your Virgin Atlantic Reward Credit Card account was opened.
Having read the above term, its clear that in order to earn a reward, £20,000 must be spent 
on the credit card within a 12 month period. In this case, VM said the account opened in 
June 2019 meaning Mr S had to spend the required amount by June 2020. VM said this 
wasnt achieved as Mr S had only spent around £14,500 during that time. As Mr S accepts 
this and I have no evidence to the contrary, I accept what VM has said. In light of the same, 
as Mr S didnt satisfy the spend requirement within the timeframe indicated, I cant say VM 
acted unfairly by saying he wasnt entitled to a reward. 
To support his position, Mr S has provided evidence of emails sent in May 2020 from VM to 
their customers. Having read these emails, it says for those who already have rewards 
and/or airmiles, the time to use them would be extended by six months. I acknowledge Mr S 
comments that this demonstrates VMs ability and discretion to make changes given the 
unprecedented nature of the pandemic. I can understand his strength of feeling as to why a 
similar approach couldnt be applied in terms of the £20,000 spend requirement. However 
its clear the extension was an internal decision made by VM as opposed to one set by the 
agreement terms. I presume this decision was likely made given the airline industry was so 
significantly impacted by the pandemic meaning flights were cancelled for some time so 
rewards couldnt be used. As this was an internal decision that VM made at their discretion, 
its not for me or this service to tell them to do otherwise or to apply this approach to the 
spend requirement. 
When considering this complaint I must take into account the terms. In doing so, there is 
nothing to suggest VM had to or should extend the 12 month time period for the spend 
requirement, nor was there any official guidance given by the financial regulator, The 
Financial Conduct Authority to say this should happen. While I recognise Mr S frustration, 
Im satisfied VM acted fairly and in line with the terms of the account. 
VM accept Mr S was provided with incorrect information by their agent and theyve credited 
his account with £50. Given the circumstances, I believe this is a fair amount of 
compensation given their error so I wont be asking them to pay anything further. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision but I hope he accepts my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman