DRN-3797307
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain about delays and poor service when trying to add Mrs K as a joint 
account holder.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In November 2021 NatWest arranged a virtual meeting with Mr S and Mrs K. Mr S wanted
NatWest to add Mrs K to an existing bank account as a joint account holder. Following this
meeting, Mr S and Mrs K tried to complete the application online. But due to a known issue
at NatWest, the system returned an error message. Mr S and Mrs K have explained they
also visited a branch but were unable to complete an application.
Mr S went on to raise a complaint. NatWest issued a final response on 15 December 2021
and promised to provide feedback to the branch involved and monitor Mrs Ks application to
try and identify any further issues. NatWest also paid £150 for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Mr S and Mrs K have told us no one at NatWest monitored their application and it was
ultimately closed. Mr S and Mrs K had to resubmit their request and supporting documents.
There were further delays when a processing team wanted more information from Mrs K
concerning the format of her name. The processing team asked branch staff to contact Mr S
and Mrs K but no action was taken.
Mr S and Mrs K raised a second complaint in May 2022. NatWest issued another final
response and confirmed Mrs K had now been added to the account. NatWest apologised for
the delays and paid a further £200, taking the total award to £350 for all the issues raised.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint and said they thought
NatWest had dealt with it fairly. Mr S and Mrs K asked to appeal. They said the level of
compensation didnt reflect the level of trouble and upset caused by the way NatWest had
handled the application. They also said that it was particularly important for Mrs K to have
access to a bank account as shed recently moved to the UK and had no other facilities
available. As Mr S and Mrs K asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree
concerning the overall timeline in this case. Mr S and Mrs K first approached NatWest
towards the end of November 2021 and the process of adding Mrs K to the account was
completed towards the end of May 2022  a period of around seven months. The first case
handler promised to monitor the process of the application then failed to follow that up. And I
can understand Mr S and Mrs Ks growing frustration at the repeated delays.
For example, when an application was reviewed, the processing teams wanted to ask some
questions. But further delays occurred when those questions werent forwarded to Mr S and
Mrs K by branch staff. Im satisfied there were several unnecessary delays here.
Mrs K has now been added to the account in question so the central issue appears to be
resolved. I need to decide how to fairly resolve this complaint. I agree with Mr S and Mrs K
that the £350 settlement paid to date fails to reflect the seriousness of what happened and
how they were affected. As theyve said, Mrs K had recently moved to the UK so had no
alternative banking arrangements in place. I agree with Mr S and Mrs K that a period of
around seven months to add another account holder is unreasonable and has caused a
significant level of inconvenience. Mr S and Mrs K have explained they were particularly
concerned that the issues and delays could impact future visa applications she would need
to make. And I think its clear the process was finally completed due to the perseverance of
Mr S and Mrs K.
Ive considered the level of distress and inconvenience caused over a sustained period and
intend to increase the award to reflect what happened and how it impacted Mr S and Mrs K.
In my view, a figure of £750 more fairly reflects the longstanding nature of the issues raised
and significant distress and overall inconvenience caused. Based on the information Ive
seen so far I intend to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint on that basis.
I invited both parties to respond with any further points they wanted me to consider before 
making my final decision. Mr S responded and confirmed he and Mrs K were willing to 
accept. We didnt hear back from NatWest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider and Mr S has confirmed 
theyre willing to accept, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. I still think Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld, for the same 
reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay them a total of £750 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman