DRN-3438568
The complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland plc failed to provide him with information he requested 
about a pending payment on his account.
What happened
Mr I had a current account with Bank of Scotland. In March 2021 he says he noticed a 
payment pending on his account which he says he had not authorised. He recognised the 
party which had requested the payment (H) and he complained to it, but H said it needed 
proof from his bank that the payment had been requested.
Mr I says he contacted Bank of Scotland by several means, including the Resolver website, 
to request information about the payment. He intended to pass this information to H. He says 
that although the payment was not ultimately debited to his account, it was pending for some 
time and, during that time, he didnt have access to the funds and was concerned his 
account might go overdrawn. 
Mr I says Bank of Scotland told him it couldnt deal with complaints raised through external 
websites and it deleted messages he sent it using social media. He complained to Bank of 
Scotland.
Bank of Scotland investigated his complaint. It said that the pending payment had been a 
Visa authorisation requested and approved by H. It provided him with the information it held 
about the pending payment. Although the payment had been earmarked, it had not been 
taken from his account. It said it had responded to Mr Is social media posts by providing him 
with a way forward. It said its terms of use meant it was able to delete social media posts.
Mr I didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. She didnt think Bank of Scotland had done anything wrong. It had provided Mr I 
with the available information about the pending payment and there was nothing further it 
could do. 
Mr I wasnt satisfied with what our investigator said. He said his complaint was that his 
account couldve been overdrawn because of this pending payment. Bank of Scotland had 
ignored his repeated requests for information and dismissed his complaints.
Our investigator thought about what Mr I had said but she didnt change her view. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out, at the outset, that in this decision Im only dealing with Mr Is complaint 
about his request for information from Bank of Scotland about a pending payment on his 
bank account. I am aware that Mr I also raised issues about H, which is a separate division 
of Bank of Scotland. Im not dealing with those issues here  although I understand Mr I says 
he needs the information about the pending payment to progress his complaint with H. 
The pending payment request
Bank of Scotland has provided information in its final response letter, dated 18 May 2021, 
which indicates it received a request, from H, for a payment out of Mr Is account, on 2 
March 2021. Although the information indicates that H had requested the payment, it 
ultimately didnt take the payment from Mr Is account. The funds were earmarked for 
around ten days, which meant this amount wasnt available to Mr I to spend.
I havent seen any evidence to show there was anything about the payment request from H 
which meant that Bank of Scotland shouldnt have processed it. And, having considered 
everything, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did anything wrong when it processed the 
payment request.
Request for information about the pending payment
Ive looked at the sequence of events following Mr Is request for information about the 
pending payment. 
- Mr I says he raised a complaint on the Resolver website (Resolver) in or around 3 
March 2021. I havent been provided with a copy of that complaint. But, it appears it 
may have been directed to H. I say that because Ive been provided with a copy of a 
final response letter from H dated 11 March 2021. H didnt accept responsibility for 
the pending payment and subsequently informed Mr I he needed to provide proof 
about the payment from his bank.
- 31 March 2021  Mr I raised the matter on Resolver. Hes provided a copy of the 
Resolver form. I can see the email reference used on the form appears to be for 
another part of the Bank of Scotland group of companies  that may explain the 
delay in logging the complaint on Bank of Scotlands systems. Mr I asked for a 
printout, screenshot or complete statement of his accounts history for the relevant 
period. He said he wanted it to show the pending payment. I can see Bank of 
Scotland logged this complaint on its systems on 4 April 2021.
- 2 April 2021 - he sent a follow up using Resolver. 
- 4 April 2021- Mr I used social media to complain about the delays.
- 11 May 2021 - Bank of Scotland asked Mr I to provide it with more details about his 
complaint.
- Bank of Scotland issued its final response letter dated 18 May 2021.
As set out above, Bank of Scotland logged Mr Is complaint on its systems on 4 April 2021. It 
logged details of the issues referred to in the Resolver message dated 31 March. And 
although Mr I says hed raised the matter with Bank of Scotland previously I havent seen 
anything to support that. I can see hed raised issues which H dealt with. H is a separate 
division of Bank of Scotland.
The requests for information about the pending payment dont appear to have been made 
until 31 March. Id just point out that, by this date, the earmarking on the funds had been 
removed  so the money was available to Mr I. Bank of Scotland says the earmarking 
wouldve fallen away after ten days. So, the key issue Mr I was raising related to getting 
proof that H had requested the payment on 2 March 2021.
Bank of Scotland asked Mr I, on 11 May, to provide further information about his complaint 
and it sent its final response letter a week after that. So overall, it took around seven weeks 
to provide its final response to the request for information sent through Resolver on 31 
March 2021. Mr I says the information he was sent wasnt satisfactory. He wanted a screenshot showing 
the pending payment. 
But, having looked at the information provided in the final response letter, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that although the information wasnt provided as a screenshot (which was what Mr I 
had requested) Bank of Scotland did provide Mr I with enough data about the pending 
payment to enable him to progress his complaint with H. He was given the date the payment 
was requested, the payment type, the amount, and the name of the payee who had 
requested the payment. 
Whilst I agree that it did take longer than might have been expected to provide the 
information, Im satisfied, on balance, Bank of Scotland has provided Mr I with enough 
information in its letter dated 18 May 2021, to enable him to progress his complaint with H. 
As Ive mentioned above the earmarking had already been removed at the date when Bank 
of Scotland logged the complaint. And, although Mr I had been concerned his account might 
have become overdrawn, that hadnt happened. So, despite the delay in getting the 
information to him, I dont think, on balance, hes experienced any financial loss or material 
distress or inconvenience as a result of Bank of Scotlands actions.
The social media posts
Mr I posted various messages on Bank of Scotlands social media pages. In his messages 
he complained about the failure to respond to his complaints. He was informed through the 
social media pages how he could progress his complaint. I think that was fair and 
reasonable. But, when Mr I said hed already filed his complaint using Resolver, he was told 
Bank of Scotland didnt deal with complaints raised using external websites. Bank of 
Scotland accepts this was incorrect information. Infact, it did log the complaint hed made 
through Resolver on its systems. 
Bank of Scotland then deleted Mr Is social media posts. He doesnt think it should have 
done that. Ive looked at Bank of Scotlands Social Media - Terms of Use. These state that 
Bank of Scotland can moderate any content posted to its site and it can delete messages. 
So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it deleted posts Mr I had made.
Having considered everything, whilst I can understand why Mr I was upset when he wasnt 
able to get immediate responses from Bank of Scotland, Im not persuaded on balance that 
Bank of Scotland has done anything wrong here. Its provided him with the information it 
holds about the pending payment. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman