DRN-2785865
The complaint
Mr H complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased his 
premiums on his motor insurance policy after he notified it about a very minor accident he 
was in.  
What happened
Mr H has a motor insurance policy with RSA. In November 2019, he was involved in what 
hes described as a very minor incident whilst moving very slowly. Hes said he and the third 
party agreed there was no damage to either vehicle. But he notified RSA of the incident. 
In August 2020, RSA sent Mr H a notice inviting him to renew his policy. This showed the 
annual premium had gone up to £1,000 due to the accident whereas the previous year, it 
was around £529. After Mr H made some adjustments to the policy  for example, changing 
his mileage  and RSA applied some discounts, the final renewal price was around £830.
Mr H has explained he didnt have time to shop around as he received the renewal notice 
only a few days before his existing policy was due to end. He doesnt think the price offered 
was fair as no claims were made. Hes said, under the policy terms, he wasnt obliged to 
notify RSA of the incident  so he thinks hes being penalised for being honest. And he 
believes he was told over the phone by RSA that the incident would only be recorded for six 
months  so shouldnt have impacted the price at renewal. 
RSA doesnt agree its done anything wrong. Its given us call recordings, internal data and 
screenshots to show its calculated the renewal premium correctly and why the type of 
incident Mr H notified it of has impacted his premium in the way it has. RSA offered Mr H 
£30 as a goodwill gesture as he decided to renew his policy despite being unhappy. It says 
the premium has increased as it considers drivers involved in accidents a higher risk 
whether they claim or not and its recorded Mr H as being at fault. RSA offered to waive the 
cancellation fee if Mr H did want to take insurance out with another provider.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr H asked our service to look into things. Our investigator 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr H didnt agree with our investigator so the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know Mr H will be very disappointed. Ill explain 
why. 
Insurers can choose the information to take into account when deciding the price of a policy 
 and thats based on the risk theyre willing to take. So its not my role to tell RSA what 
factors it needs to consider, or how much weight to place on them. 
I have however looked carefully at the evidence weve been given to make sure RSA has 
treated Mr H fairly and in line with its own criteria  and that its not treated him differently to 
other customers with the same circumstances. 
Having listened to the call recordings provided, it seems Mr H doesnt dispute RSAs 
decision to record the incident as his fault. And I can see its told him it considers customers 
who have been involved in incidents  whether theyre claimed for or not  as a higher risk. 
Ive looked at the information RSA uses to calculate premiums. This specifies the impact an 
incident like Mr H had would have on the price of the policy. Ive also looked at the difference 
between Mr Hs renewal quote and the price he paid for the previous year. Whilst I cant 
share the information RSAs given us as its commercially sensitive, Im satisfied it has set 
the price of Mr Hs policy in line with its own criteria.
I appreciate Mr H has said he doesnt think the impact the incident has had on his premiums 
is fair because neither party has made a claim and it was a very minor incident. And I can 
understand why he feels this way. But some insurers will consider customers a higher risk if 
theyve been involved in such an incident  even if they didnt make a claim. And its not my 
role to tell RSA what information it should consider when calculating risk. 
I know Mr H thinks he didnt need to tell RSA about the accident  so hes being penalised 
for being honest. But having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy  which he 
wouldve needed to agree to when he renewed the policy  I think he needed to notify RSA 
of any accidents hed had even if he hadnt claimed for them. So I think he did what was 
required under the policy terms  and if hed disclosed it at the time of renewing, its likely 
the incident wouldve impacted the price of his policy at that stage. 
Mr H thinks he was told the incident would only be recorded for six months and wouldnt 
affect his policy after that time. But having listened to the relevant call recording, I think the 
call handler was referring to how long theyd keep the claim open in case the third party got 
in touch  and not how long the claim would impact the premiums for. In any event, from the 
internal information RSAs given us, I dont think the incident will impact Mr Hs premiums 
forever which I know he was very worried about. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 July 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman