DRN-3230622
The complaint
Mr O has complained because he says UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car 
Insurance (UKI) hasnt refunded him the correct amount in overpaid premiums following an 
amendment on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Os wife  a named driver on the policy - was involved in an accident and liability was 
disputed. Whilst they were awaiting a resolution to the liability dispute, Mr O paid a higher 
premium as they were deemed to be at fault until liability was determined. When liability 
was decided, three years later and following a court case, Mr Os wife was deemed to be not 
at fault. So, they were due a refund for the years theyd overpaid on the policy, because of 
the at fault marker. This reimbursement totalled £314.63. However, Mr O says this isnt 
correct. Mr O thinks the refund should be £686.91 and hed like UKI to pay him this.
UKI says the amount it refunded is correct. It says policy premiums do not stay at a flat rate 
and the refund calculations and amounts Mr O has put forward arent correct. It says this is 
due, amongst other things, to changes in circumstances, premium ratings changes and 
insurance premium tax. 
However, Mr O is unsatisfied as he feels UKI hasnt explained exactly how it calculated the 
amount its refunding. Hes also not happy with the service UKI has provided. So, he 
complained to our service. An investigator looked at the complaint, but said UKI had done 
enough to put things right for Mr O. 
Mr O doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Premium calculations and the refund 
Mr O says the refund hes received after paying an increased premium is short by £372.28. 
He says that in an attempt to mitigate against the higher premium, due to the addition of the 
fault claim marker, he lowered his mileage allowance, and stopped paying to protect his 
NCD during those years. He says there was a small gap in cover and there was a period 
when there were less drivers on to the policy. Mr O also says even though there was a 
change of vehicle, the premiums he paid at renewal after the accident increased significantly 
from the previous year, and this is not reflected in the refund. Mr O says he has another 
policy with UKI and there is little or no difference in the premium paid over the same period 
and the increases he paid are not reflective of the risk.
Mr O also says the lack of transparency about premium calculations makes it impossible to 
know if the refund is correct or not. He says the calculations should be more transparent and 
this would not compromise any of UKI pricing methodologies. Mr O is also concerned that 
the figures UKI has used for the years the fault was included, dont take into account any 
discount he wouldve been able to achieve through speaking with UKI at renewal. Mr O says 
UKI has loyalty algorithms in place and that UKI run parallel premium pricing systems, one 
that provides a premium and one that allows a tolerance if a loyal customer calls to 
negotiate their premium at renewal. 
I understand Mr O has made amendments to his premium in order to make it more 
reasonable, because of the fault claim loading. But the fault claim rating being added to a 
policy whilst a claim is in dispute is something that we see as standard across the UK 
insurance industry. And once liability is resolved, we would always expect insurers to refund 
the overpayment  should there be one - appropriately. And Im satisfied thats whats 
happened here. I know Mr O made amendments to make the heightened premium more 
bearable. But UKI didnt do anything wrong by implementing a higher premium on his vehicle 
during this time. 
I can see that when liability was resolved and the premiums were returned, Mr O wasnt 
happy with his refund. I appreciate Mr O has presented us with his own premium 
calculations which equate to a higher refund. But Mr O has arrived at these figures without 
knowledge of UKIs methodologies and pricing mechanisms. As such, they were never going 
to be the same as the premiums generated by UKIs system. And because of this I cant take 
these calculations into account. We know that the criteria used to generate a premium are 
now so wide, varied, subject to change and far reaching, that its not possible to run them 
manually by a normal layperson without access to the criteria and loadings. The criteria used 
by a computer-generated algorithm would never match what Mr O has presented. I can 
understand Mr Os reasoning and methodology behind the calculations. But my role is not to 
calculate Mr Os refund. Its to make sure, based on the evidence presented that UKI has 
treated Mr O fairly. And from what Ive seen I think it has. 
We normally say that, providing it treats people fairly, an insurer is entitled to charge what it 
feels it needs to in order to cover a risk. UKI has shown us how it calculated Mr Os 
premium. Its used the same objective criteria, based on its assessment of a number of 
different elements of risk, that it would for any other quotation from that time. And its applied 
these criteria in the same way it would for anyone else in Mr Os situation. As such, Im 
satisfied that the premiums it charged Mr O at the time are correct. Im also satisfied from 
what Ive seen that the retrospective deductions it made once liability was determined, 
making up the refunds, are also correct.
I know Mr O is frustrated that he cant have sight of the calculations. He believes that there 
would be no detriment to UKI to disclose how the amended premiums were calculated. But 
every insurer has its own method of calculating price and UKI could be put at a great 
competitive disadvantage if other insurers knew what criteria it used to evaluate different 
risks. So, I think its quite fair that UKI isnt prepared to explain in detail to Mr O how it had 
calculated his premium. 
Mr O also argues that the amended policies are not a true reflection of the premium he 
couldve achieved at the time of the actual renewals. Mr O says UKI runs a parallel system 
and he wasnt given to opportunity to test it at the time, thus reducing his premium. However, 
I can see that Mr O made amendments to the premiums in an effort to reduce them at the 
time. I can also see from the pricing tables provided that Mr O received a discount on the 
premiums he paid in both 2017 and 2018. So, Im satisfied that the base premiums Mr O 
paid at the time were reduced and he did receive a discount benefit. The amended 
premiums were based on an already discounted premium. Because of this, Im satisfied UKI calculated and applied the refund fairly and I wont be asking UKI to make any further 
refunds. 
Delays and Poor Service
When talking about the poor service provided by UKI, Mr O refers back to the service they 
were provided as far back as the time of the claim. This issue is not part of the complaint that 
Im considering here, but I appreciate that Mr O is attempting to paint a picture about the 
service UKI has provided throughout this whole process. He says there were difficulties in 
communication and lack of responsiveness. Mr O also talks about lack of transparency, but 
Ive dealt with that point above.
So, Ive looked at the service provided by UKI specifically since liability was decided. Liability 
was determined in August 2019. I can see from an email dated 1 October 2019 that Mr O 
had received the refunds at this stage, but its not clear when exactly. Mr O complained to 
UKI about the refunds in January 2020. He followed this up twice in August 2020. UKI issued 
a final response in Oct 2020.
As a service we'll consider whether compensation is appropriate in each case. Well ask 
about what happened, and the impact it had on a consumers life. If an error has caused 
more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably expect from day-to-
day life, then an award might be fair. 
Ive set out above why Im satisfied no errors have been made. And I believe whats 
happened hasnt resulted in any adverse consequences for Mr O. I do agree with Mr O and I 
think UKI couldve dealt with his complaint more efficiently. And I do agree there was a quite 
a gap between Mr Os email in January 2020 and August 2020. UKI should really have 
picked this up sooner. I know Mr O will be disappointed with the outcome of this complaint. 
But, taking everything into consideration, including the fact Mr O didnt follow this up himself 
for seven months, I dont think awarding compensation is appropriate here. For this reason, 
and the reasons Ive set out above, I wont be asking UKI to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman