DRN-2583640
The complaint
Mr A complains that after he contacted Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd (Right Choice) 
to cancel his motor insurance policy, Right Choice: 
said he still owed money in respect of his insurance premium; and
took money from his bank account without his permission.
He also wants Right Choice to confirm no claim has been made against his policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr A took out a motor insurance policy for his car through Right Choice 
acting as insurance broker. In December 2019, his car was damaged while outside his 
house by persons unknown. Mr A reported the incident to Right Choice and to the police.
Initially Mr A intended to have the car repaired, but later decided to sell it unrepaired. He sold 
it on 7 March 2020. The next day Mr A asked Right Choice to stop his insurance policy, and 
he cancelled the direct debit for the insurance premiums that he was paying monthly.
Right Choice wrote to Mr A on 19 March 2020 saying that his policy had been cancelled and 
that he owed an outstanding amount of £1,279.64. It said it was going to debit this from his 
card account, which it did at the end of the month. Mr A complained to his bank about this, 
and it refunded the amount Right Choice had taken within 14 days.
Initially, Right Choice continued to tell Mr A that he owed this amount. However, in October 
2020 it confirmed to Mr A that his claim was now settled and non-fault, and the insurer had 
processed a part refund of his premium. However, it said there was still an outstanding 
amount due of £259.94, and asked Mr A to contact it about this.
Right Choice also told Mr A that as he hadnt completed a full years insurance with it he 
hadnt earned any no claims discount under this policy.
Mr A complained to us. Right Choice said it was willing to settle the complaint by writing off 
the outstanding balance. However, Mr A said he didnt think he owed anything, and it was 
wrong of Right Choice to take money from his account without his permission, which had 
caused him distress.
Our investigator said that Mr A initially told Right Choice he wanted to claim under the policy 
for the car to be repaired. Although he later changed his mind about this, and sold the car, it 
seems Right Choice had difficulty communicating with Mr A so as to understand whether or 
not he intended to proceed with his claim.
So when he cancelled his direct debit, it treated him as having cancelled the policy, and 
claimed the outstanding balance of £1,279.64 due under the policy terms. Given Mr As 
initial contact, the investigator thought Right Choice acted reasonably under the policy terms 
in doing so.
Right Choice had made it clear when the policy was set up that it reserved the right in such 
circumstances to take the balance premium from his card account. It told Mr A on 19 March 
2020 that it was going to do this. So the investigator didnt think it had acted wrongly in doing 
so.
Once it was clear to Right Choice that Mr A wasnt making a claim under the policy, and 
Right Choice received a return of premium from the insurer, it reduced the amount owing to 
£259.94. The investigator thought Right Choices offer to waive the outstanding balance was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and sufficient compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience Right Choice had caused Mr A.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that:
he had made it clear to Right Choice that he didnt want to do anything that meant he 
would lose his no claims discount;
he told Right Choice in February 2020 that he didnt want to make a claim and was 
going to sell the car; and
Right Choice had used his card details, and taken money from his account, without 
his permission and knowing he wasnt making a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr A had decided in his own mind by February 2020 that he wouldnt make a 
claim on his insurance, and would sell the car unrepaired. While he thought he had 
communicated this to Right Choice, it seems this didnt get through to Right Choice. Its 
records show a number of failed phone conversations with Mr A.
So I think it acted reasonably on the information it had, and in accordance with the policy 
terms, when Mr A cancelled his direct debit. It had Mr As original authority to debit his 
account for the balance owed, and wrote to him to say it was going to do this. So I dont think 
it acted unreasonably in this respect. 
After this service became involved, Right Choice offered to waive the outstanding balance of 
£259.94. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and dont require it to do 
anything more.
Right Choice has also confirmed the claim has been closed in its records as non-fault.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd to 
waive the outstanding balance of £259.94 owed by Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman