DRN-2840824
The complaint
Mr S complains that, having been a customer of Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) for a number of years, it treated him unfairly by deciding not to offer him a motor 
insurance policy from 2018 onwards. Mr S says that also caused him other difficulties when 
trying to find insurance elsewhere.
What happened
Mr S was due to renew his motor insurance policy with LV in 2018. LV wrote to him in 
September 2018 to tell him that it wouldnt be offering him a renewal quote that year due to 
his claims history. Mr S says he didnt receive LVs letter, so he had to call LV about his 
renewal.
LV told Mr S his insurance cover would expire in early October 2018 and hed no longer be 
insured by LV. It also confirmed he had nine years protected no-claims discount, which was 
the maximum it allowed.
Mr S didnt think it was fair for LV not to offer him a renewal quote that year. So, he 
complained to LV. It apologised that it initially told Mr S the decision (not to offer a motor 
insurance policy) was due to his age. It said its decision was based on his recent claims 
history. It explained that Mr S had made two fault claims and, although he wasnt 
responsible for a third claim, it was considered unrecoverable as the third-party driver drove 
off. LV said having reviewed Mr Ss claims history and discussed the position with its 
underwriters, it stood by the decision not to offer Mr S a motor insurance policy going 
forward. 
Mr S wasnt happy with LVs response, so he complained to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint and felt LV didnt need to do anything more. She explained how 
the underwriting process worked  that its an assessment of risk about the likelihood of a 
claim being made and the likely costs involved. And based on those factors, a decision will 
be made about the level of premium to charge. The investigator explained that underwriters 
will then weigh things up to decide whether to offer an insurance policy or not. Whilst she 
acknowledged that LVs decision was disappointing for Mr S, she was satisfied it was a 
commercial decision LV was entitled to make. Further, she was satisfied LV had written to 
Mr S to explain its decision and that the right to make such decisions was clearly set out in 
Mr Ss policy terms.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators assessment. And he didnt think it was fair for LV to 
hold him responsible for the events leading to certain claims against his insurance policy. 
Mr S thought decisions about whether to offer insurance should only be based on accidents 
caused by the policyholder. The investigator responded that irrespective of whether the 
policyholder is at fault, it would still be recorded as a claim against their insurance history, 
which the insurer is entitled to take account of. 
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that LV treated him unfairly by not offering him another motor 
insurance policy from 2018 onwards. Especially as he says hed been a loyal customer of 
LVs for many years. But, hes particularly concerned because he says he wasnt responsible 
for all of the accidents that LV recorded against his claims history and which played a part in 
its decision not to offer him ongoing motor insurance. And Mr S said he then suffered 
financially because his next motor insurer charged him considerably more for his motor 
insurance premium.
I do understand Mr Ss disappointment and frustration. I need to be clear though that its not 
for me to tell LV who it should offer insurance to. Thats a matter for LV to decide. And in 
doing that, it will take account of a number of factors, including the likelihood of Mr S making 
a claim. It will then decide, based on the risk factors its identified, whether its willing to offer 
a policy.
Whilst I cant tell LV what it should do in these circumstances, I can consider whether its 
treated Mr S fairly. In other words, whether the evidence suggests it treated Mr S in a similar 
way to other customers in a similar position. In order to assess this, I asked LV to show me 
its underwriting criteria, which are the rules it follows when deciding whether to offer a policy 
and if so how much to charge for it. I can't share that with Mr S as its commercially 
sensitive. But having looked at it carefully Im satisfied that LV appears to have fairly 
assessed Mr Ss risk level and applied its guidance in a fair and reasonable way. Im also 
satisfied it wouldve treated customers in a similar situation in the same way. Given that, I 
wont be asking LV to do anything more.
For completeness, Ill also address Mr Ss concern that it was unfair of LV to hold him 
responsible for accidents he didnt cause. It might help if I explain that when an insurer 
records a claim as a fault claim, it doesnt always mean that the policyholder caused the 
accident or incident. Thats because insurers also use the term fault claim to refer to an 
incident where theyve paid out on a claim but havent been able to recover all their costs 
from someone else. This is a fairly common approach across the insurance industry. In 
Mr Ss case, I understand that the events leading to one of the claims he made involved a 
third party colliding with him and failing to stop. That meant LV paid out on a claim, but 
wasnt then able to recover its costs. So, LV recorded the claim as fault. Whilst I can 
appreciate Mr Ss point, I think it was reasonable for LV to record a claim of this kind in the 
way it did. 
Mr S also says that LV caused him other difficulties due to the way it recorded the claims. 
Again, whilst I appreciate Mr Ss point, LV is required to ensure that the information it 
records is a true reflection of the claims history, which other insurers are then entitled to take 
account of when deciding whether to offer insurance and how much premium to charge. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest LV acted unfairly or unreasonably when recording Mr Ss 
claims history. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021. 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman