DRN-4417186
The complaint
Mr S and Mr F complain that Rock Insurance Services Limited didnt refund the premium 
they paid for a travel insurance policy.
As Mr S brought the complaint to us, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
On 4 February 2023, Mr S took out an airline-branded single trip travel insurance policy. He 
paid £77.40 for the contract. On 13 February 2023, he contacted Rock to request 
cancellation of the policy. As Mr S had cancelled the policy within the 14-day cooling-off 
period, he was entitled to a full refund of premium. He followed up his request by email four 
days later. On the same day, Rock responded to Mr S email to ask for some more 
information. Mr S provided this information by return that evening.
However, the refund wasnt processed and Mr S didnt hear anything more from Rock. So he 
made a complaint.
Rock didnt respond to Mr S complaint within the eight week period set out in the regulators 
rules. And by May 2023, he still hadnt received a premium refund. So he asked us to look 
into his complaint.
We asked Rock to send us its file of evidence to help us investigate this complaint. But it 
didnt respond within the deadlines we gave. So the investigator relied on the evidence Mr S 
had provided and he recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that as Mr S 
had requested policy cancellation within 14 days of taking out the contract, he was entitled to 
a full refund of premium. So he thought Rock should refund Mr S £77.40, together with 
interest of 8% simple to reflect the time hed been without access to the funds. And he also 
recommended that Rock should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the inconvenience hed 
been caused.
Rock didnt respond by either of the deadlines we gave and so the complaint was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
In September 2023, Rock wrote directly to Mr S to say that it had decided to uphold his 
complaint. It acknowledged that hed requested policy cancellation within the cooling-off 
period and that he was entitled to a premium refund. It said that thered been delays 
between the airline and Rock in arranging the refund, but that the funds would be repaid to 
the original method of payment. And it offered Mr S £20 compensation.
Mr S told us that he doesnt accept Rocks offer and that hed like an ombudsman to decide 
his complaint. So the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Rock still hasnt provided us with a copy of its file or a copy of the email it sent Mr S on 12 
September 2023. But it seems clear that Rock now accepts that Mr S did ask to cancel his 
policy within the 14-day cooling-off period and that he was therefore entitled to a full refund 
of premium. Rocks letter indicated that the refund would be paid by the airline to the original 
method of payment within 14 days. If the refund of £77.40 hasnt yet been paid to Mr S, 
Rock must now ensure it pays this sum promptly and within 28 days of the date Mr S lets us 
know whether he accepts my decision.
Given Mr S contacted Rock to cancel the policy on 13 February 2023, Id have expected the 
refund to be processed far more quickly than it has been. Mr S has been waiting for the 
refund for around eight months. It seems the delays were down to the refund process set-up 
between Rock and the airline, and miscommunications between those two parties. However, 
I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mr S to have been deprived of money he was entitled 
to due to the commercial refund arrangements between Rock and the airline. Or for him to 
have been put to the time and inconvenience of needing to contact Rock and not receiving 
timely responses either to his cancellation request, or subsequently, to his complaint. 
As such, I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Rock to add 
interest to the premium refund amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date the 
policy should have been cancelled until the date of settlement. And given the time and 
trouble Mr S has been put to in dealing with what should have been a simple request, I dont 
think £20 compensation is enough to reflect the delays Mr S has experienced. Instead, I 
agree with our investigator that £100 compensation is a fair, reasonable and proportionate 
award to reflect the distress and inconvenience I think Rock has caused Mr S over an eight 
month period.  Again, these amounts must be paid to Mr S within 28 days of the date he lets 
us know whether he accepts this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Rock Insurance Services Limited to:
- Refund Mr S and Mr Fs premium of £77.40 if this amount hasnt already been 
refunded;
- Pay interest on the refund amount at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date the 
policy should have been cancelled until the date of settlement*;
- Pay Mr S and Mr F a total amount of £100 compensation.
*If Rock considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S and Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S 
and Mr F a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman