DRN-4197186
The complaint
Mr D complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. Mr D is represented in this complaint, but Ill refer to him throughout for 
ease.
What happened
Mr D had a vehicle insured with UKI. The vehicle was leased to Mr D under a lease 
agreement with a third-party company who Ill refer to as L.
In September 2022 the vehicle was severely damaged. UKI assessed it and declared it a 
write-off. 
UKI contacted L and asked for its settlement value, which is known as a write down value. 
This was £17,570.88. UKI paid this amount, less Mr Ds excess, direct to L.
Mr D contacted L to say that he had a financial interest in the vehicle. He expected UKI to 
pay him the difference between the write down value and its market value, which he was 
expecting to be around £23,000.
The lease agreement was about 34 months into its 36 month term.
UKI said it had paid the correct amount to L. It said Mr Ds lease agreement had ended with 
the vehicle being a total loss.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ds complaint and partly upheld it. He said that UKI had settled Mr Ds claim by 
paying L correctly, but Mr D had also paid a deposit amount to L which he would be entitled 
to a pro-rata refund. Under the terms of his lease agreement, if L wouldnt refund this, then 
hed expect UKI to pay it, plus interest at 8% simple from the date of the claim to the date 
UKI paid.
UKI agreed with the view. Mr D asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having examined the evidence Ive been provided, I am upholding Mr Ds complaint in part. 
Im not upholding the main part of his complaint, about the market value of the vehicle, which 
I know will be a disappointment for him.
Ive been provided with a copy of the lease agreement between Mr D and L. Its clear to me 
that it facilitates the leasing of the vehicle in question to Mr D over a period of three years. 
To pay for this, Mr D agrees to pay L a deposit amount plus monthly rentals on top.
As a lease agreement, Mr D wont own the vehicle. At the end of the lease he couldnt retain 
the vehicle but would either enter into a new lease agreement for it, or sell it to a third party 
and keep any profit that remained after L has been paid off.
I think its Mr Ds position that he would have taken this second option, therefore he would be 
entitled to expect UKI to pay out the market value.
Looking at UKIs policy wording, this says:
If your vehicle is under a leasing agreement, we will make any payment for the total 
loss of your vehicle to the leasing company.
And looking at the lease agreement, this says (these sections are from different parts of the 
agreement):
We shall be entitled to collect any insurance monies from your insurers and where 
necessary we may, but will not be obliged to, negotiate and affect a settlement with 
the insurers which will be binding on you.
[if] the vehicle is declared a total loss. We shall be entitled to terminate the 
Agreement.
Its clear to me that the lease agreement has been terminated as a result of the total loss of 
the vehicle, so at that point in time theres nothing further for Mr D to pay for, or crucially to 
benefit from. The possibility of him making some profit from the eventual sale of the vehicle 
assuming the lease had progressed to its natural conclusion is an expectation only. 
Theres nothing in the lease or the policy that guarantees him this return, and as I say above, 
the lease agreement had been terminated by the vehicle being declared a total loss.
Mr D has also focused on the part of the policy wording that talks about the amount that will 
be paid under the policy:
The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle at the time of the loss or 
damage.
I can understand why hes focused on the phrase market value as it features prominently. 
But Id emphasise that it does state the most and in the same section of wording is the part 
Ive mentioned above about payment being made to the leasing company who own the 
vehicle.
Ive also considered Mr Ds lease agreement further and I can see that he paid a substantial 
deposit at the commencement of his lease agreement. But because the vehicle was written 
off before the end of the agreement, Mr D has effectively lost out on the full benefit of his 
deposit. 
What this means is that Mr D paid a deposit which reduces the monthly rentals he would pay 
over the term of his agreement with L. But because the agreement ended early, Mr D is 
effectively out of pocket because he cant benefit from the reduced rentals.
UKI said in its evidence that Mr D should ask L for a refund of the deposit. It would consider 
payment only if L refused to refund it. Its this services approach that this isnt fair and 
reasonable, because UKI has already benefited from Mr Ds deposit because it will have reduced the amount it needed to pay L. So I think the fair solution is to ask UKI to refund a 
portion of Mr Ds deposit on a pro-rata basis, plus interest at 8% simple. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct UKI Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr D:
A pro-rata refund on the deposit amount paid by Mr D to L.
8% simple interest on this figure, calculated from the date Mr Ds vehicle was 
damaged to the date UKI make this payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman