DRN-3888416
The complaint
Mr B complains Next Retail Limited have made a mistake when updating the address on his 
account.
 
What happened
Mr B updated his address with Next. He then received a letter, via Royal Mails redirection 
service, that Next had sent to his old address to confirm his address had been updated. Mr B 
complained to Next about this, saying theyd put him at risk of fraud by sending a letter to an 
address they knew he didnt live at anymore. 
Next responded to Mr Bs complaint. They said its part of their usual process to send a letter 
to both the new and old addresses so that, if the address has been updated without the 
genuine account holders permission, the account holder is aware. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this response so referred his complaint to our service. He also 
referred his concerns to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Our Investigator 
considered Mr Bs concerns. She said, in summary, while she acknowledged Mr Bs 
concerns, she thought Next had correctly followed their process when updating Mr Bs 
address and hadnt done anything wrong by sending a letter to Mr Bs old address. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said Nexts actions had an impact on him because he found it stressful 
and concerning as hed been a victim of fraud in the past. He was also unhappy that Next 
told him he couldnt refer his complaint to our service. 
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, its not our role to decide what processes a financial business 
should have. Its for Next to decide how their security processes operate when a customer 
updates their contact details. But we can consider whether Next has followed their own 
process correctly and treated Mr B fairly when doing so. 
Next have explained when a customer updates their contact address, they send confirmation 
to both the old and new addresses. They say they do this in case the account has been 
compromised and the address has been updated without the genuine account holders 
permission. So Im satisfied Next followed their correct process when Mr B updated his 
address with them and didnt make a mistake by sending a letter to his previous address. 
Mr B says he was stressed and worried about this because hed previously been the victim 
of fraud. Im sorry to hear how worried Mr B was and that hes been the victim of fraud in the 
past. Ive seen a copy of the letter sent to the previous address. Its addressed to Mr Bs 
initial and surname at his previous address and it doesnt contain any details of Mr Bs 
account, So although I understand Mr Bs concerns, I dont think the letter contained any 
information that would likely have put Mr Bs account at risk. And in this case, because Mr B 
had redirection services, the letter never actually went to his previous address. 
Finally, Mr B is unhappy Next told him he couldnt refer his complaint to our service. I agree 
that information was wrong. But this hasnt caused Mr B any detriment, as it appears he was 
aware of our service and was able to refer his complaint to us anyway. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman