DRN-3625420
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt give her all the money she 
withdrew from her account at one its branches. 
Ms M is being represented by solicitors in her complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In March 2021, Ms M requested a £5,000 withdrawal from her account. She was handed a 
sealed bag and informed that it contained the requested amount which had been counted, 
verified, and signed by two branch staff members. Ms M opened the bag three days later 
and discovered that it contained only £4,000.
Ms M complained to Santander and subsequently referred it to our service. Our investigator 
thought there was insufficient evidence to conclude that Santander had made a mistake with 
counting the amount in the bag before it was sealed and ultimately handed to Ms M.
Ms M disagrees and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
In order for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied it is more likely than 
not that an error was made by Santander in counting the money before the bag it 
was placed in was sealed.
Santander says its policy in relation to over-the-counter cash withdrawals is that 
money is counted and verified independently by two members of staff before being 
placed in a sealed bag for future collection. That is what happened in this case  the 
money was counted and verified by two members of staff before it was placed in a 
sealed bag. The bag remained in the branchs safe until it was handed over to Ms M.
Ms Ms solicitors question why the money wasnt counted out to her before she left 
the branch on the day of the withdrawal. I appreciate that this additional step would 
have been useful. But each bank has its own procedures in place to ensure its 
correctly executing authorised payment instructions. It isnt for our service to dictate 
the precise form and procedure. And, as far as I know, Ms M didnt ask the branch 
staff to count the money in front of her before handing it over. Under the 
circumstances, I dont find the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably.
On being made aware of the £1,000 shortfall, Santander checked its systems for 
errors. But it didnt find anything. The branch staff also checked the sealed bags that 
were still in the safe, but this didnt bring up discrepancies either. I find that the bank 
acted reasonably in establishing whether any errors had been made. 
In summary, I know that Ms M will be disappointed by my findings. But, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that Santander made an error in counting the money that was placed in the bag it 
handed over to her. Accordingly, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold it 
responsible for the £1,000 shortfall. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman