DRN-3123455
The complaint
Mr O complains Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) have incorrectly processed a chargeback 
on his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr O says in December 2019 he inadvertently made three payments of £140 each to his 
Vanquis credit card account, rather than the one he intended to make. Mr O says Vanquis 
told him to contact his bank to arrange a refund, which he did and one payment of £140 was 
refunded to his bank account, the second was returned to his usable credit and the third 
taken off the outstanding balance. Mr M says in April 2020 a further £140 was deducted from 
his Vanquis credit card account after he had settled the full outstanding balance the previous 
month. Mr O says his bank never requested any further refunds and has this in writing from 
them, and while there is some balance owing due to a subscription he authorised, he wasnt 
responsible for the £140 outstanding or any interest and charges relating to that sum. Mr O 
says he has since been issued with demands for the payment and his credit file has been 
affected. Mr O says Vanquis are at fault here and they have also offered him £50 for 
misinformation about the transactions, but in addition he wants Vanquis to reimburse his 
account with the £140 plus interest and charges and remove any adverse entries on his 
credit file. 
Vanquis says they have done nothing wrong here and have simply acted on the chargeback  
instructions they received in January and April 2020, and correctly debited his credit card 
account showing on Mr Os statements in February and May 2020. Vanquis says despite 
informing Mr O of the amount owed on his credit card account, as this hadnt been cleared 
they acted correctly when they applied the charges and interest and subsequently advised 
the credit reference agencies. Vanquis do accept that one of their advisors gave some 
misleading information about how many payments had been refunded and have apologised 
for that and credited his credit card account with £50 by way of an apology. 
Mr O wasnt happy with Vanquis response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says that evidence has been provided to show Mr Os bank did request two 
chargebacks in January and April 2020 relating to the December over payments he made. 
The investigator says  Vanquis have acted correctly on the instructions they were given and 
cant be held at fault here. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr O to see his credit card 
account go into default, as a result of an error surrounding a chargeback made on his credit 
card account. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Vanquis were at fault when 
they debited his credit card account following a chargeback request.
The first thing to say is the initial mistake of the three payments being made to his credit card 
account with Vanquis, in December 2019, was of Mr Os making. As Mr O has told this 
service he intended to make one payment of £140 and not three, due to a misunderstanding 
on his part, so I cant hold Vanquis responsible for that.
From the information provided to this service, I can see that Mr Os banks credit card 
administrator, requested two separate chargeback requests, one on 8 January 2020 and the 
second on 2 April 2020, copies of these instruction letters have been provided to Mr O by the 
investigator. Its worth saying these chargebacks were initiated by the sender of the 
payments, in this case Mr Os bank or their credit card administrator  not the recipient, 
Vanquis. 
From the credit card statements I have seen, these two chargeback instructions mirror the 
two reversals showing on Mr Os credit card statements dated February and May 2020, so 
while Mr O may not agree, Vanquis have carried out the instructions sent to them by Mr Os 
bank, as I would expect. There is no evidence to suggest any other transactions passed 
through Mr Os credit card account relating to any other chargeback concerning the 
December 2019 over payment Mr O made. Nor can I see any evidence to support Mr Os 
view that a third and possibly a fourth chargeback had been acted upon. 
What is clear from Mr Os credit card statements, is three payments were received in 
December 2019 of £140 each, and two payments were reversed in January and April 2020, 
meaning a net payment of £140 was credited to Mr Os credit card account, which was Mr 
Os original intention. 
I understand Mr O has been told by his bank they never requested the chargeback in April 
2020, but he has now been provided with copies of the instructions given to Vanquis to show 
otherwise. The only mistake I can see Vanquis have made here, is when a member of their 
staff incorrectly advised Mr O of how many payments had been refunded, but they have 
apologised for that and paid £50 for the confusion caused by this. I am satisfied this is 
sufficient. 
It follows, while I have some sympathy with Mr O in this regard, given Vanquis havent made 
any mistakes here, I cant ask them to refund the interest and charges or reverse any action 
they may have taken to recoup the monies still outstanding. 
While Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Vanquis.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman