DRN-3501156
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with what Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) did after he made 
claims on his gadget insurance policy for repairs to four iPads. 
What happened
Mr M has a gadget insurance policy with D&G. Hes made a number of claims on that policy 
since March 2020 for repairs to iPads. In 2021 he made a complaint to D&G because he 
said an iPad hed sent in for repair hadnt been returned to him. D&G provided details of the 
repair or replacement history of four iPads Mr M had claimed for in this period. It believed 
these had all been returned to him and said it never had an iPad with the model number hed 
quoted. 
Having reviewed the information provided by D&G our investigator was initially concerned 
one of the iPads might not have been returned to Mr M. But on reviewing further information 
she was satisfied that was the case. However, she thought the service D&G had provided 
should have been better and recommended it pay Mr M £50 in recognition of that (which it 
agreed to do).  
Mr M then suggested a different iPad was missing. As it wasnt possible to resolve this 
difference of view the complaint was allocated to me to decide. I let both parties know my 
initial thoughts last month. In summary I said:
Id compared the evidence D&G and Mr M provided about what happened to the iPads 
hed sent for repair and what had been returned to him. Having done so I thought it likely 
the four iPads which D&G referenced in its final response had been sent back to him. 
And I explained why that was.
However, I thought the information D&G provided about this had been confusing
(and at times inaccurate). For example it had argued one of the iPads had been replaced 
when the evidence showed it was still in Mr Ms possession. It hadnt been able to 
provide a serial number for an iPad that had been replaced which added to confusion 
over what happened. And serial numbers recorded when the iPads were initially 
submitted for repair were subsequently changed on its records. 
I thought that would reasonably have led Mr M to question the accuracy of the 
information he was being provided with. And the impact on him was likely to have been 
greater given his personal circumstances. 
Taking that (and the customer services issues our investigator had already identified) 
into account I thought it would be fair for D&G to pay him a total of £200 to recognise the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
D&G accepted what Id said. Mr M didnt agree. He continued to argue one of the iPads 
hadnt been returned to him and provided screen shots showing deliveries hed received 
from the company involved. He didnt agree the compensation Id recommended was 
enough given his circumstances. So I need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M continues to feel only three iPads have been returned and he should have 
four. The information hes provided does suggest he only has three. But the question for me 
is whether thats because of anything D&G got wrong. 
I explained in my initial thoughts to him (with reference to the relevant serial numbers) why I 
was satisfied three out of the four iPads matched the information hed provided and so it was 
clear where they were. And D&G had said the other iPad was returned to him in January 
2021. Ive reviewed the delivery information Mr M has provided but that doesnt cover this 
period. But D&G has provided evidence from its delivery records which satisfies me this was 
sent back to him. 
So I dont think its done anything wrong here. I do think the information it provided to Mr M 
should have been clearer and its customer service better (for the reasons Ive already 
explained). But Id taken into account Mr Ms personal circumstances when considering what 
the right amount was to recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused by that. 
And it remains my view that a payment of £200 is a fair way of doing so. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Domestic & General Insurance Plc will need to put 
things right by paying Mr M £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman