DRN-4167292
The complaint
Miss P complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt provide the service it should have 
following an issue with an international transfer.
What happened
Miss P made an international transfer for around £1,300 from her account on 31 January 
2023. She says the intended recipient said they hadnt received the payment. She contacted 
Nationwide and says that after 20 working days her case was closed and she hadnt 
received her money back. She says that Nationwide didnt keep her updated on her case 
and she had to chase for information.
Nationwide issued a final response in March 2023. It accepted that it hadnt provided the 
service it should have as it hadnt kept Miss P updated about her international transfer and it 
noted she had made several calls. Because of this it credited her account with £50. In regard 
to the transfer itself it didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said the payment was 
submitted by Miss P through online banking and it checked the details Miss P submitted 
against what it keyed and these matched. It said it had submitted a request for a recall of the 
funds; but this wasnt guaranteed.
A further correspondence was sent to Miss P in April 2023 confirming that the recall was still 
in progress and can take up to 20 working days. It apologised that Miss P was told her case 
had been closed and said this wasnt the situation and the outcome to the recall was due on 
26 April 2023. It said it credited Miss Ps account with £50 for the upset caused by being told 
her case had been closed.
Nationwide then issued a letter dated 5 May 2023 saying that the payment hadnt been able 
to be recovered due to there being no response from the beneficiary bank.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that Nationwide had made a 
mistake and thought the compensation offered was reasonable.
Miss P didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she was receiving different 
information from Nationwide to what our investigator was saying, and she didnt think she 
was being treated fairly. She said it had been accepted that she had provided the correct 
details for the transfer, and it hadnt been explained why Nationwide wasnt at fault. She said 
that months had passed without Nationwide showing it had provided the service it should 
have. Miss P wanted her money returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this experience has been for Miss P especially given what 
the payment was for. But for me to uphold this complaint and require Nationwide to refund 
Miss P the money she transferred, I would need to be satisfied that Nationwide had done 
something wrong or treated Miss P unfairly.
Miss P made several calls to Nationwide when she was told that the payment she had made 
hadnt reached the intended recipient. I have listened to the calls. Miss P is initially told that a 
trace will be issued to try to identify where the payment is. It is explained that contact will be 
made through the banking system, and she is given the timescales. While I note that the 
trace didnt have a positive outcome and updates were provided when Miss P made contact, 
I think Nationwide could have been more proactive in keeping Miss P up to date on the 
process being undertaken. 
As a positive outcome wasnt received to the trace, a credit payment recovery was 
attempted. This is undertaken on a best endeavours basis and there was no guarantee that 
this would be successful. 
On a call on 24 March, Miss P is taken through the information she provided for the 
international transfer, and this matched the details she had received from the company she 
was transferring to. Therefore, the issue doesnt appear to be Miss P inputting incorrect 
details. But even though Miss P didnt seem to do anything wrong, this doesnt mean that 
Nationwide is at fault. Nationwide has explained that it uses an intermediary bank, and the 
intermediary bank has confirmed that it received the money from Nationwide and sent this 
on to the receiving bank. Given this I do not find I can say that the reason for the money not 
reaching the intended recipient was due to a mistake by Nationwide.
This is a very unfortunate situation but, in this case, I do not find I can say that Nationwide 
has done anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly. It has confirmed that the payment was 
received by its intermediatory bank and when Miss P raised the issue of the payment not 
being received by the recipient it took reasonable action to try to locate and recover the 
money. Because of this I do not find I can say that Nationwide is required to refund Miss P 
the money.
Nationwide didnt provide the service it should have as it didnt keep Miss P updated and 
gave her incorrect information about her case being closed. But having considered these 
issues I think the compensation it has paid is reasonable. So, while I know this will be 
disappointing for Miss P, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman