The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2007. Mr M says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr M complained to this Service. Our adjudicator rejected his complaint. Mr M disagreed 
with our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
Mr M added - through his representative - that he didn't need PPI and it was not made clear 
to him that it was an optional product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI because he most
likely had to sign separately for it and he probably chose to take it out  although I
can understand why he may not remember this.
Neither party can say if the sale was advised or not so I will assume it was an
advised sale as this carries a higher evidential burden for HSBC to prove. For
advised sales, HSBC had to check that the PPI was right for him and, based on what
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have
had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But he most likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information
about the PPI would have put him off from taking out the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
DRN-1136879HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr M,
that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he said about not needing PPI 
because he had health care and income protection policies in place. But I have looked at 
what Mr M told us and HSBC - and I agree with our adjudicator. I think the income protection 
policy would have given him a reduced income and the health care policy most likely gave 
protection in different ways than the PPI. I think the PPI was probably still of benefit to him. 
So these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman