DRN-2569188
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc cleaned and returned his clothes after a 
house fire. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr G says the clothes were cleaned incorrectly and this caused a skin reaction. Mr G 
didnt report a reaction until two weeks after the clothes were returned. AXA has, 
reasonably in my opinion questioned why it took so long for a reaction to appear or 
for Mr G report it. Mr G has provided medical evidence dated six months after the 
clothes were returned but I think this too far removed from the event itself. And, it 
only records Mr G telling the doctor hes had a reaction since the clothes were 
cleaned  it isnt the doctors opinion of the cause of the reaction. The note does say 
Mr G had previously been seen by dermatology, but there is no date recorded 
against this. While I dont doubt Mr G had a skin reaction, I dont think hes been able 
to show it is more likely than not, the way in which the clothes were cleaned caused 
the skin reaction, rather than some other cause.
Mr G has provided a report from a laundry specialist which does identify some 
residual chemicals on a T-Shirt. However, this T-Shirt isnt listed on AXAs inventory 
as one that was cleaned by its contractor. I cant therefore definitively say this proves 
the clothes were incorrectly cleaned.
AXA offered to arrange for some of the clothes to be cleaned again, to resolve Mr Gs 
concerns, which I think was reasonable.
Mr G says the contractor shrunk some of his clothes. The clothing inventory lists four 
jumpers from the same designer, against two of them it records they are misshaped 
and a third had loose threads and staining.  Mr Gs report shows three of those 
jumpers to be different sizes and misshaped when compared. And, it reports one of 
the jumpers as being stained. Based on the condition of the jumpers that were 
presented to the contractors, Im not satisfied AXAs contractors were responsible for 
the jumpers shrinking/being misshaped. I think it is more likely than not, that type of 
damage was already present and Mr Gs report only serves to highlight their current 
condition. 
  
Mr G is unhappy care wasnt taken when his clothes were returned to him. As they 
were bundled in boxes and plastic bags, causing them to be creased. AXA offered 
Mr G compensation of £350 for this and other matters related to his overall claim. As 
AXA have acknowledged it could have done more here and, paid some 
compensation, I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I reject Mr Gs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman