DRN-3679195
The complaint
Mrs F complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) has unfairly said it wont pay all of a 
claim she recently made for hospital treatment.
What happened
Mrs F needed an operation, and approached BUPA to get payment pre-authorised. BUPA 
agreed that the claim was one it could meet, but also explained that if the anaesthetist used 
during the operation wasnt on its fee-approved list, it would make a set contribution of £447 
towards the anaesthetists fees and any additional costs would have to be met by Mrs F.
Mrs F had her operation, but BUPA then said the anaesthetist wasnt on its list  which left 
Mrs F owing £213.
Mrs F didnt think that was fair, as anaesthetists were only allocated on the day of an 
operation and she had no input into this  so she could never be sure a fee approved 
anaesthetist was being used.
BUPA didnt change its stance, so Mrs F asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong. She noted that the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Fs policy clearly said that if a medical professional wasnt on its list of 
those who charged in line with its benefit limits then payment would be up to the limit and 
any surplus had to be met by the claimant. She also listened to the call between BUPA and 
Mrs F when she called to get authorisation for the claim and said that BUPA had explained 
this point, and that Mrs F hadnt questioned this.
Mrs F said that BUPA must know about the way in which anaesthetists were appointed to 
particular operations in her location and should have covered the full costs. However, our 
investigator said that as BUPA has no relationship with the service that appoints 
anaesthetists it couldnt be held responsible if a non-approved anaesthetist was appointed.
Mrs F doesnt think this is fair so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator gave. I 
realise this isnt what Mrs F wants to hear, and Ill explain how I reached my decision.
Before I do that, I should say that Ive noted that Mrs F has referenced previous decisions 
issued by this service some years ago. I cant take those into account here. Im required to 
reach a decision based only upon the evidence and circumstances surrounding this 
particular complaint. So although I appreciate Mrs F telling me about those decisions, they 
dont affect how Ive reached my conclusions.
I dont think its necessary for me to comment on the terms and conditions for the policy 
again, nor the content of the telephone call Mrs F had with BUPA when getting payment for 
her operation pre-authorised. Neither party has said these parts of the process were 
questioned and/or misunderstood.
Instead the main thrust of this complaint is that Mrs F had no control over which anaesthetist 
was be part of the team carrying out her operation. I think thats a fair point. However, from 
what we know about how anaesthetists are appointed to particular operations in Mrs Fs 
locality, its clear BUPA has no influence over that, either. The local arrangement is that 
anaesthetists are requested by the hospital carrying out the operation, and BUPA says it has 
no input into this. I dont see any reason to doubt that, even if BUPA might have been more 
involved in these appointments in the past. The hospitals procedures for requesting 
anaesthetists might or might not potentially disadvantage private patients whose procedures 
are paid for by insurers. I havent considered that, as this isnt something this service can 
comment on. Thats because hospital activities arent regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and dont fall within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As I dont think BUPA has any control over which anaesthetist is appointed by the hospital 
where Mrs F had her operation, I cant say it did anything wrong here, and it follows I cant 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman