DRN-3223894
The complaint
Mr S complains that Canada Life Limited (Canada Life) will not allow him to cash in his 
annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr S had a pension with Canada Life. In 2005, Mr S took his pension benefits under his plan and 
he received a tax free cash figure and an annuity of just over £100 a year.
More recently, Mr S asked Canada Life if he could cash in his annuity as a lump sum would be of 
more use to him. But Canada Life declined to do so, it said it has discretion not to offer this.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S would like to cash-in his annuity, and so Ive considered whether this is something we can 
fairly tell Canada Life it should offer Mr S.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Ss position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, 
but only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does Canada Life have discretion to commute Mr Ss annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mr S the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Canada Life the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Canada Life is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Ss best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Canada Life was free to grant Mr Ss request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Canada Life to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Canada Life hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Mr S to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr S to show that he would be worse off if he 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Ss told us and 
the value of his annuity, which is paying him around £100 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is so 
small it doesnt provide any meaningful income on which he relies. And a cash lump sum in 
place, even if relatively small, would most likely benefit him more than the annuity. For this 
reason and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also 
on the basis that it would be in Mr Ss personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Canada Life fairly took into account Mr Ss interests 
(and that of its wider customer base) when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mr S to 
cash-in his annuity.
Canada Life has told us it is unwilling to offer a cash in value to Mr S, essentially because the 
annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult to offer that option now 
without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to the detriment of other 
customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-Most of its annuities were sold with advice and a cost to the customer  this is 
problematic for cashing in. Advice was given on a lifetime annuity.
-It was concerned about what would represent a fair value for customers and how 
would a customer know if it was fair.
-A lump sum payment could cause tax issues for customers  this could be an 
unintended consequence. (and without advice customers wouldnt be aware of this).
-It would be giving customers a chance to choose again  those for example with life- 
limiting conditions would choose to cash-in. Those young and in good health may not
 creating an unfair burden on it. It would undermine the cross-subsidy model of its 
annuities book.-Its annuities were backed by long term assets, making widespread cashing-in offers 
would be problematic due to this.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Canada Lifes points are fair ones. I dont think 
Canada Life simply disregarded Mr Ss interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Canada Life could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Mr Ss case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business the 
size of Canada Life. However, I acknowledge Canada Lifes difficulty here. Im not persuaded there 
is reason in Mr Ss case to treat him differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my 
understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr S would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity 
isnt useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mr S 
had a right to. And while Canada Life was free to allow his request, Im satisfied it did have 
other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the 
impact on Canada Lifes existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers more 
widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Canada Life to decline Mr Ss 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr S in line with other 
customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities 
and Im aware that some businesses have previously offered cash values to customers. If 
in the future Canada Life changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation 
changes, its possible Mr S may benefit from such a change. But in the present 
circumstances I dont think hes been treated unfairly. 
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold his complaint.
Mr S is understandably disappointed with the decision and doesnt agree with it but hasnt 
added anything new or substantive following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Canada Life to decline Mr Ss 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr S in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman