DRN-3192976
The complaint
Ms F complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very didnt provide clear 
information about the repayment method for goods she purchased on its website; and that 
she received poor customer service during its handling of her complaint. 
Ms F is represented on her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as if they are 
her own.
What happened
Ms F thought shed purchased goods through her Very account in November 2020 on a buy 
now pay later (BNPL) basis; but was told she wasnt eligible for this repayment basis when 
later looking for confirmation of this. She complained to Very about this; and its handling of 
her complaint. Very reviewed her concerns and didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms F brought her complaint to our service for review and our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said Very had acted within the terms and conditions of her Very account; and 
he said he couldnt consider the complaint handling aspect of Ms Fs complaint as it wasnt a 
regulated activity. 
As Ms F didnt agree with our investigators outcome the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I recently issued a provisional decision where I set out, with reasons, my initial thoughts on 
this case and what I was intending to decide. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision:
Ive gone on to consider each aspect of Ms Fs complaint under different headings for ease. 
The repayment basis for the purchase
When making this purchase in November 2020 Ms F opened a new Very account. Both 
parties appear to agree Ms F previously held a Very account, but Very has said due to 
inactivity it became dormant. 
While going through the online process to open the account Very says Ms F was presented 
with its terms and conditions which Ms F needed to agree to before the account could be 
opened. Very has provided this service with details of the process Ms F would have gone 
through, and Im satisfied as part of opening the Very account she was directed to confirm 
she had read the associated terms and conditions. So, Ive gone on to consider what these 
terms and conditions say, to consider what Very would reasonably be expected to do in 
relation to possible payment options. 
Section 12 of the terms and conditions titled Payment Options states:
Your account combines a number of different payment options to offer you flexibility in using 
your account. Some of these options may be offered to you when you make a particular 
purchase and some can be chosen by you when you make a repayment.
This section goes on to state specifically in relation to BNPL:
We may from time to time offer an option to purchase items on BNPL terms.
So, as our investigator has said, the terms and conditions indicate that the BNPL payment 
basis is something Very may offer  but isnt ever a guaranteed repayment option. I note this 
exact same information is provided within the credit agreement Ms F electronically signed 
when opening the account. So, I consider she ought reasonably to have been aware that 
repayment on a BNPL basis is not a guaranteed option.
In Ms Fs testimony to this service shes said there were no payment options presented to 
her when making this purchase, which was part of the reason she contacted it the following 
working day.
Very has said it doesnt know why Ms F would not have been provided with payment options 
when completing this purchase. Neither party have been able to provide screenshots of what 
Ms F saw when completing the purchase and what payment options were or werent 
presented. But Very has provided this service evidence of Ms Fs footprint on its website 
when completing her purchase. These records appear to show Ms F looking at possible 
payment options, and that she accessed the BNPL details on its website. But it shows she 
purchased the goods under what it calls the standard facility on her Very account. 
The copy of the credit agreement Ms F electronically signed when opening the account 
shows she was approved with a standard facility credit limit of £750 and an Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) of 39.9%. So, on balance, and based on the evidence I currently 
have, I consider it more likely Ms F ought reasonably to have been aware she was making 
this purchase on the terms of the standard facility.  
Ive listened to all of the phone calls our service has been provided with. In Ms Fs first call to 
Very the next working day after the purchase, and in all subsequent phone contact with 
Very, it is confirmed that the purchase was made on the standard facility basis  and that at 
the time she didnt have the ability to purchase the goods on a BNPL basis. So,  even if Ms F 
wasnt aware of the payment terms she purchased the goods under at the point of sale, Im 
satisfied Ms F became aware at the earliest opportunity that she hadnt purchased the goods 
on a BNPL basis and could take steps to cancel the order if she was unhappy with this,. So, 
while Ms F may not have accepted that she couldnt repay the goods on a BNPL basis, I 
dont consider Very acted unfairly here. Its Verys commercial decision to decide who it 
lends to and on what basis; and as Ive already found above, its terms and conditions, 
applicable to all its customers, state it may offer BNPL  and therefore it is never 
guaranteed.
In the calls Ms F was told the BNPL facility is reviewed on a rolling 28-day basis once she 
enters a new statement period  so she could look to review her payment options and 
whether BNPL was a facility available to her at the next statement period, if she wished.
Cancelling the order
Ms F has said she was provided conflicting information when looking to cancel her order. 
Having listened to the phone calls I agree Ms F was provided with different information in 
different calls. While I agree with our investigator that it comes across that Verys representatives were trying to help, it should have given Ms F correct information from the 
beginning. 
It appears the correct information Ms F should have been given was to accept the order and 
then arrange a return. I say this because one of the representatives dealing with Ms Fs 
complaint said that the information she was initially provided was information that we dont 
normally provide as a business, its not the information that we aim to provide.
So, Im satisfied Ms F was provided with conflicting information and I can understand her 
frustration with this. Ms Fs expectations had been set and Very changed its approach  and 
informed her that she would be liable for the goods if they werent returned via this approach, 
now that she had been made aware of it. 
I think its clear that this conflicting information did cause Ms F further distress, during what 
was clearly an already stressful time for her. And I think this became more apparent to Very 
as her complaint journey progressed (which Ive detailed below).
Our jurisdiction to look into Verys handling of the complaint
The activities our service can consider are set out under the Dispute Resolution: Complaints 
(DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook  details of which can 
be found online. 
DISP 2.3 sets out the activities we can consider about Very under our Compulsory 
Jurisdiction. Our investigator explained complaint handling itself is not a regulated activity, 
and as such he didnt think we could consider this part of Ms Fs complaint.
However, complaint handling is considered an ancillary activity carried on by the firm when 
in connection to the firm carrying on a regulated activity. As such, and as Ms F still has an 
ongoing dispute about the way the goods were purchased and how to cancel the order 
(which is a regulated activity), Im satisfied the complaint handling part of her complaint does 
fall within this services jurisdiction. As such Ive gone on to consider the level of customer 
service Ms F received during her complaint. 
Ms F has said Very offered her compensation as part of its resolution of her complaint; but 
this has not been forthcoming, and that Very now dispute this. 
During one of the later calls the Very representative says, Its quite clear youve been given 
poor serviceso youll be given an offer of compensation for that.
I consider an expectation was set and I can understand why Ms F was expecting to receive 
a payment in order to acknowledge the distress and anxiety the conflicting information 
caused. 
Putting things right
Ms F has said that the whole situation and complaint process caused her distress and 
anxiety. As Ive found above, while I dont think Very made an error when not providing Ms F 
with the facility to purchase the goods on a BNPL basis; I do consider it should have 
provided a better level of service during its phone calls and in its handling of her complaint.
Ive also noted that Very became aware during the complaints process that Ms F has a 
health condition which makes dealing with situations like complaints more difficult for her 
than it would be for the average customer. As such, I consider it was on notice that it might 
need to adapt how it dealt with Ms F, as she was likely to suffer more distress than the average customer in this situation. This information was available to Very prior to its internal 
referral to its head office for further investigation and before its final response was issued.
Therefore, Im intending to award £150 to reflect the increased level of distress and 
inconvenience Verys failings caused Ms F.
Very accepted my provisional decision. Ms F responded and said she agreed that £150 fairly 
reflected the level of service shed received during the complaint process. Ms F provided a 
copy of an email she received from Very which she says further supports her position that 
she understood shed purchased the goods on a BNPL basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the additional information Ms F has provided; but it doesnt lead me 
to reach a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. 
I say this because the email Ms F has provided appears to be a welcome email following the 
opening of her Very account. The email provides Ms F with different repayment options 
under her Very account; but provides no guarantees that these will be available to her. And 
as I explained in my provisional decision, the terms and conditions of Ms Fs Very account 
do state that BNPL isnt a guaranteed repayment option.
In any event, Ms F was aware of the repayment basis of the purchase the next working day; 
and was provided the same answer to this part of her complaint multiple times over multiple 
phone calls with Very. 
So, I still consider Ms F was aware at the earliest opportunity that she hadnt purchased the 
goods on a BNPL basis, and while she didnt accept this outcome, she was in an informed 
position to take any action she wanted to in the knowledge of this information. 
As Ms F has accepted my findings in relation to the £150 for Verys handling of her 
complaint; and Very has accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
Ms F was provided with conflicting information on a number of occasions in phone calls 
about how to return the goods; and in relation to an award for the handling of her complaint. I 
consider this added to an already distressing situation for Ms F; taking into account that Very 
also became aware during the complaint process of Ms Fs health condition, which makes 
dealing with situations like complaints more difficult for her than it would for the average 
person.
Putting things right
To settle Ms Fs complaint Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very should 
pay her £150 for the distress its complaint handling failings caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im uphold Ms Fs complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as Very and require it to put things right as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman