DRN-4216700
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Finance) failed to remind him
that hed missed a loan payment. Mr M says that his loan account remained in arrears longer
that it should have, and this had a negative impact on his credit score.
What happened
Mr M missed two loan payments, one in late 2020 and the other in early January 2021. In
February 2021 Mr M made a payment to clear the missed payments, but unfortunately
another payment was due on 1 February. Mr M says that had Tesco Finance reminded him
that hed missed a payment, he wouldve cleared this immediately. Mr M complained to
Tesco Finance that he only found out his account was in arrears when he called in
November 2022 and that this had a negative impact on his credit score.
Tesco Finance explained it had written to Mr M about the arrears on his loan account and
that because the account was still in arrears it wouldnt remove the information it had
provided to Credit Reference Agencies (CRA's) as it was correct. Tesco confirmed to Mr M
that hed now cleared the arrears and the account was up to date, and that this would be
reflected in his credit file.
Mr M brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that Tesco Finance should arrange
to for the removal of the arrears data it had provided to the CRAs for the period between 
February 2021 and November 2022 and pay Mr M £50 for not sending him a reminder that 
his account was in arrears during this period.
Both Mr M and Tesco Finance requested an Ombudsman decides the complaint and the
case was passed to me to decide. I reached a significantly different outcome to the
Investigator so I issued a provisional decision and asked Mr M and Tesco for any further 
comments before I considered my final decision. In my provisional decision I said I intended 
saying Tesco Finance hadnt done anything significantly wrong and that I didnt intend 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. Tesco Finance accepted my provisional decision and Mr M 
didnt provide any further comments for me to consider. Therefore, Ive decided to adopt my 
provisional decision as my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr M missed two payments in December 2020 and January 2021. 
Tesco Finance sent Mr M an email reminder for each of these missed payments. And when 
Mr M fell two months into arrears, Tesco Finance issued a notice of arrears by post on 2 
January 2021, as it is required to do in a case like this. Theres no dispute that Mr M paid off 
the two months payments in early February, but by this time a further payment had become 
due. This meant the account was still in arrears.
Mr M believes that Tesco Finance should have emailed him, like it had done whenever hed 
missed a payment before, to remind him he was in arrears. However, the arrears letter 
Tesco Finance sent to Mr M on 2 January explained;
For so long as you continue to be behind with your payments by any amount, you will be 
sent notices about this at least every six months. We are not required to send you notices 
more frequently than this, even if you get further behind with your payments in between 
notices.
Tesco Finance sent further letters to Mr M in June and November 2021, and in April 2022 
and October 2022. These provided statements for Mr M along with notifications of continuing 
arrears and information from the Financial Conduct Authority explaining what Mr M could do 
if he needed any help.
Mr M says that Tesco shouldve sent him reminder emails, but I think once Tesco Finance 
had issued the arrears letter in January 2021, it was reasonably clear that reminders would 
be sent every six-months if the account remained in arrears. I cant say whether Mr M 
received this letter, but it was sent to the address Tesco Finance held and Mr M did make 
two payments on 1 February. I understand Mr M moved out of the country in March 2021 
and feels that Tesco Finance should have told him more often that his account was still in 
arrears, but its Mr Ms responsibility to update Tesco Finance with his up-to-date address, or 
to make arrangements for any post to be re-redirected. Mr M didnt do this until November 
2022, so he didnt receive the six-monthly letters Tesco Finance sent him about his on-going 
arrears.
Mr M says he had sufficient savings to clear the arrears at any time if Tesco Finance had 
emailed him the arrears letters. I empathise with Mr M that his account remained in arrears 
for longer than it should have, but Im satisfied that Tesco Finance took reasonable steps to 
keep Mr M informed about the arrears on his account. Tesco Finance followed the process it 
said it would follow and provided Mr M the information it was required to by its regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), every six-months by post. Ive seen that once Mr M told 
Tesco Finance of his new address it changed its records, so I think if Mr M had done this 
when he moved abroad, its more likely than not Mr M wouldve received the arrears notices.
Mr M feels that Tesco Finance was wrong to provide the credit information it did to the 
CRAs whilst his account was in arrears. Ive decided that it was reasonable for Tesco 
Finance, as a responsible lender, to provide accurate information in this regard. The account 
was in arrears and Tesco Finance hadnt heard from Mr M despite sending arrears letters to 
the address it held for him. So, I wont be asking Tesco Finance to request that the CRAs 
remove information about the arrears on Mr Ms loan account between February 2021 and 
November 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman