DRN-3019891
The complaint
Mr G complains as the owner of W, a business, that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE 
has declined his retail insurance policy claim for fire damage to the equipment at the 
business premises.
 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr G made a claim to Liberty following a fire at Ws business premises. The fire 
had emanated from a deep fat fryer which had caused considerable damage to the 
equipment and building. The building itself is insured separately. The claim made by W is in 
respect of the equipment, staff wages and loss of business.
The fire occurred when Mr G had been at the premises serving breakfasts from around 7am. 
At about 9.30am when Mr G was in the dining room and the kitchen unattended, the fire 
alarm was triggered by the oil in the fryer igniting. Mr G attempted to put the fire out but 
wasnt able to and had to call the fire brigade.
Liberty investigated the claim and appointed a forensics expert to find out the cause of the 
fire. He advised that the fryer had overheated uncontrollably. He couldnt say definitively 
what had caused this  he said it was possible that a contactor on the fryer had become 
stuck due to lack of use during the lockdown. He pointed out that the fryers should have had 
lids connected to them but he couldnt see any such lids. He further noted that the kitchen 
extract system comprised a timber-framed, tiled canopy, a fan unit and a duct that appeared 
to be largely constructed from aluminium and was routed through a brick chimney. This was 
clearly in breach of the guidance for constructing such systems which said the only material 
that should have been used was brushed stainless steel. 
Liberty pointed out to Mr G that W was in breach of two warranties in the policy and for that 
reason it was declining the claim. There was a breach of the cleaning warranty and a 
warranty requiring the fryers be fitted with lids.
With regard to the cleaning the warranty required that all extraction ducts be cleaned at least 
every twelve months by an independent contractor. Mr G said it was six weeks overdue at 
the time of the fire. This was because the contractor who normally did this had failed to turn 
up for the last scheduled clean. He explained that he had tried to contact other companies 
but because of the high demand following the lifting of lockdown, had to be put on a waiting 
list. He wasnt able to supply any contact details of the previous contractor and said that all 
records had been destroyed in the fire or had been disposed of following an HMRC audit.
With regard to the lids Mr G said these were available  they were kept on a shelf about four 
feet away but owing to the intensity of the fire hed been unable to use them.
On referral to this service our investigator said that W was in breach of the two warranties. 
She contacted the forensic expert who said that had lids been in place they would certainly 
have prevented the fire or its spread would have been dramatically reduced. With regard to 
the cleaning she noted that Mr G hadnt been able to produce evidence that this had been 
done. Bearing in mind it was for Mr G to show that any breach of the warranty wouldnt have 
affected the loss, she said it was reasonable for Liberty to decline cover.
Mr G didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liberty has said that W is in breach of two warranties in the policy, the deep fat frying 
condition and the kitchen duct warranty. In respect of both those warranties it is a condition 
precedent to the Company's liability that they be complied with. That is, a breach of either of 
the warranties will lead to a rejection of the claim. As it is a commercial policy unless Mr G 
can show that any breach of the warranty wouldnt have prevented or lessened the risk of 
the fire happening, Liberty would be within its rights to decline cover and not pay the claim.
kitchen duct warranty
This says that:
It is a condition precedent to the Company's liability that: Cooking fume extraction canopies 
and ductwork be cleaned at least every twelve (12) months by independent contractors and 
that filters, traps or other grease removal devices therein be cleaned at least fortnightly.
Mr G says that the system was cleaned regularly over the previous eight years by the same 
contractor, but that he had failed to turn up for his latest appointment. He says he tried to 
contact another contractor but was put on a waiting list. He has been unable to produce any 
records of cleaning, and cant supply any contact details for the contractor. He says that after 
an HMRC audit all records had been disposed of and/or that they had been destroyed in the 
fire.
Im not inclined to accept that Mr G has shown that the ductwork etc was regularly cleaned 
or that the contractor didnt show up. It clearly hadnt been cleaned in more than the previous 
twelve months.  Mr G hasnt shown us any evidence of W being put on a waiting list. I would 
have thought that he would have been able to at least produce some evidence of this. And 
the policy does require all such records to be kept, notwithstanding that there was an HMRC 
audit.
It is for Mr G to show that the failure to clean the ductwork etc didnt affect or lessen the risk 
of a fire. When the forensic expert inspected the system, he said the kitchen extract system 
comprised a timber-framed, tiled canopy, a fan unit and a duct that appeared to be largely 
constructed from aluminium and was routed through a brick chimney. Notwithstanding the 
system was about 17 years old, he pointed out that guidance in place at the time required 
such systems to only be constructed of brushed stainless steel. He concluded that the way 
the system was constructed directly led to the spread of the fire. Albeit any grease deposits 
left by not cleaning werent such an important factor.
I dont think Mr G has been able to show that the lack of cleaning wasnt directly relevant to 
the fire happening. It seems likely to be that with the inadequate construction of the system. 
the fact of the cleaning not having taken place was at least a factor, given that the system 
had been in place for about 17 years. So I do think it was reasonable for AXA to decline to 
pay the claim because of breach of this warranty.deep fat frying condition
This says that:
It is a condition precedent to the Company's liability that: 
 
c) All extraction ducts are cleaned at least every twelve months by an Independent 
Contractor and a record kept. 
 
f) The pans to be fitted with metal lids which can be shut down in the event of fire (with larger 
installations closing to be automatic and the system to be linked to the ventilation system so 
that this is also shut down in the event of a fire).
The forensics expert could see no lids on the premises. He was questioned about this both 
by Liberty and by our investigator. Mr G insists that lids were available and in the kitchen, 
about four feet from the fryers.
The expert said that if lids had been present they would have most likely stopped the fire 
from spreading. However he questioned, given the nature of the fire whether it would have 
been reasonable to expect anyone to put the lids on the fryers once the fire had taken hold. 
This would have been a risk in itself.
I believe the fryers in question didnt have to have self-closing lids, though they should at 
least have had lids fitted. I think that if, as Mr G says, there were lids, having them over four 
feet away from the fryers wouldnt have been of any use. I dont think that Mr G has shown 
that this warranty was complied with.
However I do think that even if the fryers did have lids fitted in the circumstances of this case 
it would have been impractical to expect Mr G or any other member of staff to place them 
over a fire in the fryer. So, in respect of the lids part of this warranty, I think Mr G has shown 
that the breach of it wouldnt have prevented the fire spreading. As Ive said above W was in 
breach of the cleaning part of this warranty.
So overall, while I appreciate the difficulty this puts Mr G and W in, I cant uphold the 
complaint, because of the breach of the warranty Ive set out above.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman