DRN-1399433
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the market value Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) paid him for his car 
when he claimed under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Rs car was stolen and although it was recovered, it was damaged beyond economical 
repair and deemed a total loss. Mr R made a claim under his car insurance policy and 
Lloyds first offered him £10,200.00 for its market value, but it increased this to about 
£10,800 after Mr R asked for a review. 
Mr R made a complaint as he didnt feel the trade guides Lloyds had referred to for the 
valuation reflected real life prices. Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint, and as Mr R remained 
unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He explained how 
this service looks into valuation complaints and said that he had considered the various 
trade valuation guides in forming his view. But as they were in line with Lloyds valuation, he 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.
As Mr R didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
This claim arose from a burglary, which Im sorry to hear about and can understand that Mr 
R has been through a stressful time. And I can see that Mr R feels very strongly about this 
complaint; he says he cant obtain a suitable replacement with the settlement offered by 
Lloyds and highlights that he paid a lot more for the car. 
Mr Rs policy will pay the market value of his car at the time of loss or theft. I must highlight 
that it is very difficult to value second hand cars and it isnt the role of this service to value Mr 
Rs car. But our general approach is that we seek to assess whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable.
To do this, we obtain valuations from motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second 
hand cars. But we will also take into account the evidence provided by both parties. This 
might include engineers reports, statements from dealers and, in some cases, 
advertisements for similar cars.
We think trade guides are generally more reliable, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides 
are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.
Lloyds consulted the trade guides and used an average of the values it obtained when 
deciding the value of Mr Rs car. Lloyds also spoke with a specialised car dealership who 
agreed the valuation of about £10,800 seemed reasonable. I note that this conversation 
discussed the relative high mileage of Mr Rs car and the effect this would have on the 
selling price.
Mr R provided valuations for similar cars which he compiled from advertised prices. Based 
on the average of these, Mr R feels a fairer valuation would be over £18,000. But all the cars 
in the adverts Mr R provided have lower, (and in most cases significantly lower) mileage 
than Mr Rs car, so I dont think they are fair comparisons.
Lloyds have shown that the valuation it obtained from one of the trade guides was £14,400, 
based on the average mileage for the car. However, when this was adjusted for the actual 
mileage, it decreased to £10,290.00. And Ive looked at the various trade guides that are 
available and they are in line with the offer Lloyds has made, so I cant say it has acted 
unreasonably. I say this as it has considered the various trade guides, its own engineers 
opinions and even contacted a specialised dealership to double check its valuation, so 
I think it has acted fairly. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr R as he clearly feels his car is worth a lot 
more than Lloyds offered him. However, as Ive already stated, it isnt my role to value Mr 
Rs car, but to look to see if Lloyds has acted reasonably. And from the evidence before me I 
think it offered a fair market value for Mr Rs car in line with the trade guide valuations. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman