DRN-3340142
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (BMWFS).
What happened
Mr C acquired a used car under a 50 month hire purchase agreement with BMWFS on       
23 November 2019. The car was delivered on 29 November 2019. The car was around nine 
years old and had covered around 66,955 miles when it was acquired. The cash price of the 
car was £18,251. 
The agreement included a two year guarantee for £399 provided by the supplying 
dealership, who Ill refer to as D. As part of the agreement, Mr C part exchanged his 
previous car. As the outstanding amount owed towards the finance agreement was less than 
the car was valued at, Mr C entered into a separate agreement with BMWFS to pay the 
outstanding amount.
On 2 March 2020, Mr C contacted D. He explained the car was misfiring, the lights on the 
dashboard were appearing and it was refusing to go into fifth or sixth gear. He said this had 
happened a few times and each time the issue rectified itself after a minute. 
D told him to take the car to a specific chain of garages in its franchise. Mr C says he did this 
and he was told there was an issue with the speed sensor. He says he was told the garage 
didnt have the tools to repair it. So he took it to a garage operated by the manufacturer and 
obtained a diagnostic report at a cost of £50. He was then told to go to a manufacturer 
recognised dealership in the franchise D was part of. However, on 14 March 2020, Mr C said 
he wanted D to repair the car and refund the cost of the guarantee as he said it would never 
pay out or allow him to reject the car.
D didnt respond, so Mr C referred his complaint to BMWFS. It told him that due to     
COVID-19, dealerships were closed so they would investigate the complaint once D had 
reopened. In June 2020, Mr C let BMWFS know the fault had developed and he wasnt able 
to drive the car. He said he now wanted to reject the car. Following this, D agreed to take 
back the car and return the previous car Mr C part exchanged under this agreement. 
However, he declined to do this.
In July 2020, BMWFS looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it needed to do anything. 
It said, in summary, it wouldnt accept rejection of the car as it was entitled to one repair 
given the issue occurred within six months of the car being supplied. It said the delays were 
caused due to garages having limited availability as a result of COVID-19. It also said 
because the car was a certain model, it needed to be taken to a specialist garage. It 
suggested repairs be arranged and covered under the guarantee.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint to our service. He said BMWFS should 
accept rejection, he hadnt been using the car and further faults had developed. He also said 
the issue was affecting his health and he had acquired another car to travel to work. He also 
said despite potentially being made redundant, he was honouring his payments.
Whilst the complaint was at our service, Mr C later said he didnt want to reject the car and 
instead he wanted a refund of the amount he had paid for the guarantee, compensation for 
the months he hadnt been able to use the car, a refund of his insurance and tax payments 
along with interest on these amounts. He also said as he had been using his wifes car for 
around three months, he wanted to be reimbursed for this.
Since the complaint has been referred to us, BMWFS agreed to pay for an independent 
inspection to be carried out. But Mr C confirmed he had paid for repairs to the car and sold it 
in March 2021. BMWFS also told us it would be happy to refund Mr C the cost of repairs and 
the MOT, upon receipt of invoices to show the costs Mr C had paid.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think the car supplied to Mr C was of 
unsatisfactory quality. She thought the fault with the speed sensor was likely to be a wear 
and tear issue which Mr C was responsible for. With regards to the guarantee however, she 
thought the guarantee had been misrepresented to Mr C and she recommended BMWFS 
refund the cost of the guarantee and pay Mr C 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
As both Mr C and BMWFS remained in disagreement, the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2022, in which I said the following:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr C has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Quality of goods supplied under the agreement 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire purchase 
agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. In Mr Cs case, the car he acquired was used  so there would be different 
expectations compared to a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of 
supply, should have met the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
given its age, mileage and price. 
In this case, there was a fault with the left front wheel speed sensor input circuit failure 
around four months after Mr C acquired the car. This was confirmed by a manufacturer 
owned garage who said this was the cause of the ABS light appearing on the cars 
dashboard. This fault was repaired in March 2021 and Mr C paid for the repairs.
As the car has now been sold, its unclear why the left front speed sensor needed to be 
replaced or what caused it to fail. Mr C says before the car was supplied to him, work was 
carried out to the wheel bearing. He says that when a repair is carried out to this part of the 
car, the speed sensor needs to be removed. So he said this could have caused the fault.
However, a speed sensor can require replacement for a number of reasons. A speed sensor 
is also considered a wear and tear item and it will be expected to be replaced within the 
lifetime of a car. I need to consider that the car Mr C acquired was around nine years old and 
had covered nearly 70,000 miles. So, it doesnt seem unreasonable that parts may have 
needed replacing at the point the issue with the speed sensor arose. Although there is a slight lack of evidence here, thinking about everything I havent seen 
enough to make me think the fault was present or developing at the point of sale, or that it 
was caused by earlier work. On balance, I think its more likely the part failed due to wear 
and tear.
Mr C told this service December 2020 that the car wouldnt lock and the alarm and 
immobiliser wouldnt work as a result of the speed sensor needing replacement. However, 
as I dont think the fault with the speed sensor made the car of unsatisfactory quality, I dont 
think BMWFS are liable for subsequent issues related to this fault. 
Overall, I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr C. 
So it follows that I dont require BMWFS to take any action in relation to the quality of the 
car.
Repairs under the guarantee 
As part of the agreement with BMWFS, Mr C agreed to purchase a two year premium 
guarantee. This was to be provided by D. Neither BMWFS nor Mr C have sent us a copy of 
the terms of the guarantee. However, a copy of the terms and conditions of the guarantee 
are available on Ds website. The guarantee lists all the items that are covered under it. 
Speed sensors arent covered. So whilst I appreciate Mr C was unhappy with what he was 
told about the guarantee, by both D and BMWFS, repairs to speed sensors are excluded 
under the guarantee. So, I dont think it was ever going to pay out for this particular fault.
Mis-sale of the guarantee 
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, BMWFS, as the credit provider, can be 
held responsible for things said by D. This is because it says that any negotiations between 
Mr C and D, are taken to have been conducted by D as an agent of BMWFS. This means 
that if D made a false statement of fact to Mr C or misled him about its suitability, then 
BMWFS could be responsible for putting that right.
Mr C says he was told he had to purchase the guarantee with the car and it was 
misrepresented because he could never use it. He says this is because his car was a 
specialist car which his local dealerships wouldnt be able to repair. 
Ive seen no supporting information to suggest Mr C had to purchase the guarantee to be 
able to acquire the car. In fact Ds website confirms that all used cars come with a three 
month guarantee which can be upgraded to a 12, 24 or 36 month guarantee at an additional 
cost.
When a fault occurred with the car, Mr C contacted D who told him he had a two year 
guarantee attached to the car. D emailed him and said, you can go in to any (dealership 
chain name) or any VAT registered garage and the any work that needs doing, all being its 
not classed as wear and tear will be covered under that. take it to your nearest (dealership 
chain name) firstly and see what they say. 
Mr C followed these instructions and the garage carried out a diagnostic identifying the fault. 
However, the garage told Mr C it couldnt carry out the repair as they didnt have the tools to 
fix it. Mr C says the closest garage to him that can fix the fault is around 50 miles away.
Having thought about this, I dont think D made a false statement of fact to Mr C. I say this 
because Mr C is able to take the car to a dealership and have the work carried out. I 
appreciate Mr C was told a specific garage needed to do the specific repair his car needed. 
However, given that Mr C has a specialist car, this doesnt seem unreasonable and I dont 
think this means, on balance, that other repairs couldnt have been done in his local branch. 
In addition, D told Mr C he was able to have repair work carried out at any VAT registered 
garage. So if there is another VAT registered garage local to Mr C where work can be 
carried out to his car, Mr C is able to use this garage instead.Overall, Im not persuaded a false statement of fact was made by D. So it follows that I dont 
think the guarantee was misrepresented to Mr C. 
Delays as a result of COVID-19 
When Mr C was told his car couldnt be repaired at a dealership local to him, he was told to 
take it to a specialist dealership. This took a number of months. But by this point, most 
dealerships were operating with restrictions as a result of COVID-19. Given the 
unprecedented nature of COVID-19, I dont think it was unreasonable for BMWFS to have 
some delays given the circumstances. It should also be remembered that at this point in time 
businesses were still trying to adjust to new and different ways of working because of the 
restrictions imposed by COVID-19.
I appreciate Mr C feels strongly that if COVID-19 hadnt happened, his car was likely to have 
been repaired and he wouldnt have had to pay the monthly repayments under the 
agreement whilst he waited for a repair. I sympathise with the situation Mr C found himself 
in. However, Ive already explained that Mr C would be liable for the repairs to the speed 
sensor, as the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to him and the fault 
was excluded under the terms of the guarantee. So, either way, I dont think BMWFS needs 
to do anything further here. 
BMWFS offer 
BMWFS has agreed to reimburse Mr C the cost of an MOT and the repair of the speed 
sensor, upon Mr C providing an invoice to show these costs. Mr C should contact BMWFS 
directly if he now wishes to discuss this further.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
BMWFS didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr C responded and said the following: 
he didnt agree to take his previous car back from the dealership as he wanted to 
reduce his outgoing bills at the time. 
he asked this service for an exact description of wear and tear and said given the 
age of this car, he questioned whether we would consider any other potential failures 
to the parts to also be wear and tear. He asked whether the guarantee would pay for 
anything at all and asked us to supply him with a list of parts that can be replaced 
and for our service to consider whether the guarantee provider would try and find a 
way out of doing the work under the guarantee.
the lights came on and off almost straight away after he took ownership of the car 
and this didnt manifest until the real issue occurred, four months later
the car was a specialist car, but parts were readily available. He questioned why the 
dealer could sell the car but then say the car had to go to a specialist for repairs 
when they had carried out repairs on it previously
he said he would have been happy for the car to be repaired when it was initially 
taken to the dealership, but they refused to repair it. He said he was sent away in an 
unroadworthy car and said this would be an instant MOT failure as the lights were 
appearing on the dashboard.
the car wasnt safe for him to drive and 80% of the time he has owned it, it has sat on 
his driveway.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments made by Mr C in response to my final decision. Ive only 
concentrated on the comments in relation to whether the car supplied to Mr C by BMWFS 
was of satisfactory quality or not and whether a misrepresentation was made about the 
guarantee before he agreed to purchase it. Where Im satisfied points raised were already 
covered in my provisional decision, I wont repeat things here.
With regards to Mr Cs comments about the terms of the guarantee and why the dealer is 
able to sell a car it cant repair, its not down to this service to decide whether a business 
should be able to sell a guarantee if it cant carry out some of the repairs, or what if any 
repairs it should be able to carry out. So I havent commented on this. Ive gone on to 
consider Mr Cs other points.
When I issued my provisional decision, I thought that the car supplied to Mr C was of 
satisfactory quality at the time it was acquired by him. In response to this, Mr C has said the 
lights on the dashboard appeared almost straight away after he took ownership of the car. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but Mr C hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show 
this is what happened. And, even if I accepted a light did appear earlier, there isnt any 
evidence to say this was linked to the later fault. So, in light of this, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision and I still think the car supplied to Mr C was of satisfactory 
quality. 
Mr C has mentioned that lights appearing on a dashboard would make the car fail an MOT, 
as it wouldnt be roadworthy. However, I need to consider whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr C  not what later happened. 
Mr C has also asked us to provide him with the exact description of wear and tear. I would 
consider certain parts of a car to require replacing during its lifetime  for instance brake 
pads or the clutch. When such parts require replacing through normal use of the car this is 
what I would consider to be wear and tear. Other parts I would not expect to need replacing 
through normal use  for instance the cars bonnet. Ive already explained in my provisional 
decision why I think on balance the fault that occurred was due to wear and tear.
If Mr C would like to understand what specific parts of the car the guarantee covers, I would 
recommend he contacts his guarantee provider directly. 
Ive carefully thought about everything else Mr C said in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I still think the complaint shouldnt be upheld for the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman