DRN-2751834
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined 
their claim under their home insurance because the policy didnt cover gas leaks. They think 
the policy wording isnt clear.
Mrs H and Mr H had a joint home insurance policy covering buildings, contents and home 
emergency. Although the policy was in joint names, for ease and because she dealt with the 
claim and complaint, Ill refer only to Mrs H throughout my decision.
What happened
During routine gas network maintenance, Mrs H was made aware of a gas leak at her home. 
The source of the leak wasnt confirmed. Mrs H contacted Admiral and it sent one of its 
home emergency engineers. The engineer couldnt find an external leak source and thought 
the leak was coming from within the wall or under the floor. The engineer said he couldnt 
perform a trace and access (T&A) under the home emergency policy and advised Mrs H to 
contact Admiral again.
Mrs H claimed under her home insurance but Admiral said the policy didnt cover gas leaks 
so it wouldnt complete the T&A. Mrs H complained to Admiral because her policy provided 
T&A for leaks, and she couldnt see why Admiral wouldnt cover the gas leak. Admiral said it 
only covered leaks related to named perils in the policy, for example water.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no mention of gas leaks in 
the policy and she couldnt see that Admiral had done anything wrong.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said that Admiral sent an engineer out when she reported a gas 
leak, so it would be reasonable to assume her policy also covered T&A for gas leaks. Mrs H 
thought that if the reference to leak didnt include gas leaks, the policy shouldve been 
clearer.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Mrs H complained about two key issues:
Admiral declined her claim because the policy didnt cover T&A for gas leaks.
Misleading policy wording which didnt make clear the type of leak it covered. 
Ive looked at the policy documents, including the schedule and the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) to decide whether it was fair for Admiral to decline the claim 
under the policy terms. In doing so, Ive thought about whether the wording in the policy 
provides a clear picture of whether T&A includes gas leaks. While this complaint is about the 
home insurance policy, Ill comment on the home emergency documents because they form 
part of the overall policy and provide some clarity. 
Admiral originally responded to Mrs Hs claim about the gas leak under the home emergency 
policy. She questioned why it would send an engineer if her policy didnt cover T&A. The 
IPID for the home emergency states:
What is insured?
Internal gas pipes: Well repair or replace any gas pipe within your home.
What is not insured?
Trace and access: We wont cover the cost of any work needed to locate the source of the 
emergency.
I think the level of cover under the home emergency policy is clear and theres no indication 
that cover extends to the buildings insurance policy. Had the engineer been able to easily 
identify the leak, then its likely it wouldve been fixed under the home emergency policy. 
Because the source of the leak wasnt known, the engineer explained that the policy didnt 
cover T&A. This description of events is in line with the policy cover, so I cant see that its 
actions here wouldve caused confusion about whether the buildings insurance policy 
covered T&A.
I understand Mrs H was then advised to check whether her buildings insurance policy 
covered T&A for the gas leak. The policy provides cover for gas pipes, but only in cases of 
accidental damage:
What is insured?
Underground services: Covering accidental damage to underground pipes and cables 
bringing water, gas and electricity to your home and sewage away from your home.
As the policy clearly states cover is for accidental damage, Ive looked at whether T&A is 
covered. The relevant clause states:
Trace and access
The cost of removing and replacing any part of the buildings to find the source of a leak if the 
buildings are damaged due to causes covered under Section 1  Buildings, or by frost 
damage to your plumbing installation.
So, T&A is provided if damage is caused by one of the listed causes. The only relevant listed 
cause is:
11) Accidental damage to underground drains, pipes, cables and tanks
Again, its clear that cover is only provided for accidental damage.
What this information tells me, is that the policy documents are clear about the 
circumstances under which it will cover damage to gas pipes or provide a T&A service. 
Therefore, I dont think its fair to assume cover is provided under any part of the policy 
which is silent about gas pipes.
As I explained above, I looked at all of Mrs Hs policy documents to determine the cover 
available. I realise theres a lot of information here, but policyholders do have a responsibility to understand their level of cover, and Admiral included this information on Mrs Hs policy 
guide: 
Your responsibilities
It is important that you read the General Conditions and General Exceptions which apply to 
the whole policy and the individual exclusions that apply to each section of the policy.
Am I covered?
Check your current policy documents and Guide to your Home Insurance Cover to see your 
level of cover and to make sure your lost or damaged property is insured and has been 
damaged by one of the causes listed.
Overall, looking at the wording on the IPID in isolation, I can see why Mrs H mightve thought 
her claim would be covered, and why she thinks Admirals reference to leaks might include 
gas leaks. However, I think the policy clearly references where gas is covered and the 
circumstances under which T&A is provided. So, in conclusion, I dont think its fair to say 
Admirals policy wording was misleading and Im satisfied that Admiral declined Mrs Hs 
claim in line with the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman