DRN-2787169
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc recommended an unsuitable 5 year structured 
product in 2002, the likely returns being far less than she could have been guaranteed via 
one of its medium-term fixed-rate bonds.
What happened
Mrs B retained the product for the full period and received back her initial invested sum plus 
the minimum 20% return that had been guaranteed.
She complained to Santander in 2020 by which time it had deleted all but the basic files 
relating to the recommendation and the investment itself. In the absence of key documents 
such as a fact find, recommendations and suitability letter, it said it had no evidence to 
indicate that it had given inappropriate advice.
As Mrs B had kept the product for the full 5  years, there was no evidence it had been 
unaffordable.
Mrs Bs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), brought her complaint to 
this service, saying:
Our clients attitude to risk was not fully assessed
The level of risk within the investment was inappropriate for our client
The amount of our clients free assets placed into the products was unsuitable
Our clients future needs and objectives were not considered
The Guaranteed Equity Bond contained risks which our client did not have a 
sufficient understanding of
Our client had no previous investment experience, was 66, had just retired and 
received £7,000 from an employment benefit scheme
This represented the majority of the money she had available at the time
The product offered a return based on changes in the FTSE 100 over a five-year 
period. Every six months during the term of the investment the fund tracked the 
changes on FTSE 100 index and clients were able to receive a maximum of 6% 
growth within that six-month period (or a loss of up to 6% in each period)
In order to receive the maximum level of growth (60% over the term) the FTSE would 
have had to perform exceptionally and in a way that it has never performed in history
Around this time fixed-rate bonds were available on the high-street paying 5.25% per 
annum. This would have represented a return of £9,040.84 over five years, 
compared with the £8,740.20 possible return shown in the illustration for the Safety 
Plus Growth Fund based on past performance of the FTSE
To match the performance of a fixed-rate bond this required the maximum growth of 
6% in half of the periods and no losses in the remaining periods; this was highly 
unlikely
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint, saying:
Due to the passage of time Santander has explained that it no longer holds the Fact 
Find or Suitability Report. As the advice was provided in 2002, I dont find this 
unusual or unreasonable
However, this does mean I wont be able to review the contents of these documents 
to establish what Mrs Bs investment objectives, capacity for loss or attitude to risk 
was at the time
As the point of sale documentation isnt available, I can consider what both parties to 
the complaint recall about the advice given. In this case, neither party were present, 
so itll be even more difficult to gather what took place
Im unable to give an opinion on whether or not Mrs Bs attitude to risk was fully 
assessed to say if the advice given in 2002 was suitable or not. Neither can I say if 
the investment was in line with Mrs Bs objectives as theres no fact find, financial 
report or suitability letter to consider
The Key Features document clearly explains that a customer is guaranteed to get 
back a 20% return on maturity, and theres no reason to assume Mrs B wasnt made 
aware of or failed to understand this
The presence of other investments generating greater return does not render another 
generating a lesser yield unsuitable
As Mrs B kept the investment for the full period, I cant safely conclude this was an 
unaffordable recommendation
Mrs Bs representative had not provided concrete evidence to support many of its 
claims, resulting in insufficient evidence to fairly conclude this was poor advice
Mrs Bs representative did not agree, saying:
In this case the presence of other investments generating greater return does render 
another generating a lesser yield unsuitable
Our client was clearly a low-risk investor and whilst the investment offered capital 
protection the level of return required to exceed risk-free options made the 
investment unsuitable
For a client who is clearly seeking some security with their capital it should be 
apparent that they would be keen to maximise their return based on the most likely 
scenarios rather than take a gamble on markets performing in a completely unique 
(and nigh impossible) way
We cannot accept that a niche product of this type was suitable for our client given 
the significant (and guaranteed) return that would have been available at the point of 
sale from fixed-rate investments. The risks and gamble that our client was advised to 
take was amplified further by the excessive portion of Mrs Bs assets that were 
invested into this single product
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role and that of this service is to decide if there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to 
safely conclude that a business did something wrong; in this case that Santander should not 
have recommended a product where the guaranteed return was lower than that available via 
various savings/deposit accounts.
In assessing this issue, it is extremely important to look at Mrs Bs financial position at the 
time, her general circumstances and specific objectives in order to assess whether she was in a position to risk getting a modest return in the hope of getting a greater one via this 
product.
However, the absence of any key paperwork makes this very difficult. As neither Mrs Bs 
representative nor Santanders complaints handler can offer first-hand knowledge of what 
was discussed in the meeting between Mrs B and the advisor, I am left with insufficient 
evidence to make a fair assessment of this issue  even on the balance of probabilities.
I can therefore only consider whether it was manifestly unsuitable for Mrs B to take such a 
risk with this fairly significant portion of her money. Its important to note that she kept this 
product for the full term so one can reasonably assume she had sufficient remaining money 
to do so.
This product guaranteed a minimum return of 20% - equivalent to just under 4% interest a 
year  with the possibility of a higher return, depending on the FTSE performance.  Mrs Bs 
CMC argues that she could have got around 5.25% via fixed-rate bonds i.e. up to 1.5% 
greater in interest. 
But I do not agree that this made the recommendation necessarily unsuitable. I would have 
expected Santanders advisor to have made this comparison clear so Mrs B could make a 
fully informed decision as to whether she wanted to risk getting a slightly lower rate of return 
in the hope of a significantly larger one (if the FTSE grew steadily over the next five years).
However, in the absence of any relevant paperwork it is impossible to know, with certainty, 
what was discussed. I therefore dont believe there is sufficient evidence to uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. If the product had not guaranteed a significant return, I may well have reached a 
different conclusion given the risk-free bond rates at the time.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman