DRN-3583475
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc has rejected his claims against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr S bought a solar panel system including a voltage optimiser for his home in 2015. He 
paid for his purchase using his Santander UK Plc (Santander) credit card. Under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, this means that Santander is jointly and severally liable for 
certain acts and omissions of the installer/supplier.  
Mr S complained to Santander in 2020, via his representatives. He said the benefits of the 
panels had been mis-represented to him and he would not have entered into the contract 
had he been made aware of the actual benefits of the system. Santander did not agree with 
Mr S, and so Mr S brought his complaint to this Service.
 
In January 2021 Mr S contacted his solar installer saying that some of his property had been 
damaged by a hot spike caused by poor installation of the voltage optimiser. He included a 
letter from an electrician explaining what happened, and a list of the items damaged. The 
installer rejected Mr S claim due to lack of evidence. 
Mr S also contacted Santander about the damage. It rejected his claim saying that Mr S did 
not contact the installer until more than 5 weeks after the fault and the evidence from Mr S 
electrician did not confirm that the damage was caused by the installers. It also said that as 
repairs had been done before contacting the installer, they had had no opportunity to 
investigate the fault. Santander considered the onus was on Mr S to prove the damage was 
due to the actions of the installers and said that he had not done so. And by not contacting 
the installers in time, he had failed to mitigate his loss. 
To be clear, Mr S has complained about the mis-representation of the benefits of his panels, 
and about the damage to his house and contents due to the heat spike as he considers this 
is due to poor installation of the optimiser, and as such is a breach of contract. Santander 
has responded to complaints on both these issues, and our investigation has considered 
both points of complaint.
  
The case was reviewed by one of our investigators.  He said that he could see from the 
evidence supplied that there was a significant difference between the estimated performance 
on the MCS certificate and the actual performance of the system. So, the system could have 
been misrepresented. However, hed borne in mind that in situations where we did consider 
the benefits had been mis-represented, we would be likely to recommend that the actual 
cost of the panels to a consumer should be reduced in line with the actual benefits of the 
panels over a reasonable period of time, effectively making them cost neutral. On the 
information he had, the panels would pay for themselves in around 8 years, which he 
thought was reasonable. 
He did agree that there had been a breach of contract, as he felt the evidence that the fault 
was due to poor installation was credible, and that Mr S was entitled to make his claim to 
Santander. He recommended that Santander arrange an inspection to ensure no further 
damage had occurred to Mr S electric system and to cover the costs of repairing or 
replacing the damaged items. 
Mr S commented that he felt the difference in estimated and actual generation was 
significant and submitted a letter from his electrician recommending regular inspections of 
Mr S electrical system.  
Santander did not agree with the view and broadly repeated its previous arguments, the hot 
spike could have been caused by other electrical work Mr S may have had done in his 
house, it didnt understand why Mr S didnt contact the installer until late in January, and he 
had started replacing items without giving the merchant the opportunity to put things right.  It 
stated that only expensive items had been damaged and queried what the investigator 
meant by reasonable costs and concluded there was no evidence that these items had been 
damaged. Santander also said the damage could have been caused by Mr S electrician and 
asked for confirmation that no claim had been made under Mr S home insurance. 
   
The investigator clarified that he agreed that the difference in generation between the 
estimate and actual was significant, but he wasnt recommending Santander to do anything, 
as he considered that the redress we would recommend would effectively leave Mr S in the 
same position. He did not think that Mr S was required to contact the merchant before 
raising a section 75 claim against the business and confirmed no insurance claim had been 
made. As agreement could not be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out 
in this decision. But I have considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the 
relevant provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Misrepresentation
I agree with the investigators points about the misrepresentation of the panels. In the event 
that we find a solar panel system to have been misrepresented, we ask the business to 
calculate the likely benefits of the panels over a reasonable period of time, using evidence of 
the actual benefits and making assumptions around likely future benefits, and to ensure the 
consumer doesnt pay any more than that amount. In this case, taking into account Mr S 
specific circumstances, carrying out this calculation would effectively not change his financial 
position, so I dont think its necessary to ask Santander to do anything further here. 
 
Breach of contact
The Consumer Rights Act says that a consumer can expect a service (such as installation of 
solar panels and associated items) to be carried out with reasonable care and skill. I think it 
is reasonable to expect the panels and the associated purchases are installed correctly and 
safely. So, if in this case the installation wasnt carried out correctly, the installer/supplier or 
Santander would be responsible for repairs or replacement of damaged items. 
  
Mr S has supplied a letter from his electrician dated 16 December 2020 which explains what 
happened. In summary the electrician was upgrading the overall power supply to the house, 
turned off the power to the voltage optimiser, which led to a hot spike, increasing the voltage dramatically. This sent up to 400v around the circuit damaging various items. The electrician 
found that the voltage optimiser had been wired in incorrectly, meaning that when the power 
was turned off, the neutral conductor was lost. He also stated that he had confirmed his 
assessment with Napit Technical (a government approved accreditation service for various 
building services)
In its rejection of the investigators view Santander contended that the heat spike could have 
been caused by something other than the faulty wiring and the optimiser could have been 
damaged by someone else since the installation in 2015. The investigator has confirmed 
with Mr S that this was the first time he has any such significant work on his house that 
would require the power to be turned off in this way, and no-one had touched the optimizer 
before this.  I see no reason to disbelieve Mr S testimony, and while I accept there are many 
scenarios that could have caused the spike in power, and consequent damage, I find Mr S 
testimony and that of his electrician to be credible. So, I consider that on balance of 
probabilities the damage did occur as the electrician has said. 
Mr S has supplied a list of the items damaged, together with invoices for repairs or like for 
like replacements as applicable.  
Santander raised concerns about the damaged items, saying only expensive items have 
been claimed for, and items it would expect to see damaged, such as a kettle or toaster 
were not claimed for. However, I disagree - the items claimed for range from light bulbs to 
televisions, and Mr S explanation that it was items plugged into the circuit at the time that 
were damaged is reasonable, as is his explanation that he has a AGA style range and 
doesnt have a kettle or toaster.  
Santander has also commented that around a month passed before Mr S contacted the 
installer about the damage, and that he started carrying our repairs/replacements before 
they had had the chance to carry out inspection. Again, I dont think Mr S actions were 
unreasonable here. Given the time of year and risks around the actual and potential 
damage, I can understand why Mr Ss first actions were to remedy the issues rather than 
seek redress.    
 
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, I consider it more likely that not that the 
damage to Mr S house and items was caused by a heat spike caused by poor installation of 
the optimizer. It was reasonable for Mr S to expect the installation to be done to a safe 
standard and the failure to carry out the work with due care and skill represents a breach of 
contract. So, I think it would be fair for Santander to put things right.
 
Putting things right
Santander has queried what reasonable redress would be. As I consider the damage to the 
circuit and Mr Ss items was due to breach of contract I consider it liable for the costs of the 
repairs or replacement of the damaged items as claimed by Mr S and as evidenced by the 
invoices he has shared. It should also arrange for a further inspection to Mr S property to 
ensure there is no longer term damage to the circuits. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr S complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Santander UK Plc to:
Reimburse Mr S the amounts he has paid for the replacement items or repairs he 
has claimed for, plus 8 % interest* from the date he paid until the date of settlement. Arrange for an inspection of Mr S system to check for any long terms damage to his 
property, and address any issue related to the hot spike that this identifies.
*If Santander UK Plc considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman