DRN-2725723
The complaint
Mr S complains that poor service from Attivo Financial Services Limited caused a delay in
investing the proceeds of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr S says hes suffered
investment loss as a result.  
What happened
Mr S held a SIPP with a third party provider. In October 2019 he instructed Attivo to make
arrangements for the SIPP to be closed, and the proceeds invested with a new provider.
Attivo sent disinvestment instructions to the third party SIPP provider on 28 October 2019.
By 20 November 2019, the majority of Mr Ss fund (worth roughly £800,000) had been
disinvested and was being held in cash. But the SIPP provider waited until all the fund
proceeds were received before sending them on to the new SIPP provider. This didnt
happen until 24 December 2019.
Between 20 November and 24 December 2019 the price of the fund that Mr S wanted to
invest in rose. He says this caused a loss of roughly £14,000 when the investment was
eventually made.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Attivo had chased the
third party SIPP provider to check on progress of the transfer. She didnt find that Attivo was
responsible for completing the transfer process, so she didnt consider it was reasonable to
hold it responsible for the delay that had occurred.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint was passed to me for 
review. 
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 10 March 2021. Details of my provisional 
findings are set out below:
Attivo was Mr Ss appointed independent financial adviser for the purpose of the 
SIPP. Id reviewed the SIPPs terms and conditions, and the third partys guide for
transferring the SIPP away. Having reviewed these documents, I considered Attivos 
role and responsibilities in connection with the SIPP and the transfer.
I also reviewed Attivos records from the time that the transfer was in progress.
The terms and conditions of the SIPP meant the SIPP provider was responsible for 
carrying out Attivos instructions, on behalf of Mr S. It didnt offer any advice in 
connection with the transactions Mr S wanted to make. So when the SIPP provider 
received Attivos instructions to disinvest, it was responsible for actioning and 
completing the disinvestments.
The overall value of Mr Ss fund was roughly £800,000. By 20 November 2019 the 
majority of that amount had been disinvested and was being held in cash by the 
SIPP provider.
Attivo was in contact with the SIPP provider from around 18 November 2019. The 
SIPP provider suggested the funds would be available for reinvestment on 26
November. Attivo chased again on 3 December and was told that not all of the 
remaining funds had been disinvested.
I could see why Attivo might consider it was misled by the SIPP provider about when 
the funds would be available. And I could also see why it might consider that in light 
of that misleading information, Attivo was not responsible for the delayed 
reinvestment.
But I was mindful of the SIPP providers guide to transferring the SIPP away. This 
says:
Full cash transfers
In order to transfer your SIPP as cash to another pension provider, all of the 
investments held within your SIPP will need to be sold
It goes on to say:
Partial Transfers
It is possible to transfer only part of your SIPP to a new pension provider, should you 
wish to do so.
If you wish to proceed with a partial transfer, please ask the receiving scheme to 
request this from us.
Attivo was Mr Ss appointed representative for the purpose of the SIPP. So it was 
responsible for taking account of the SIPPs terms and conditions, and how they
might affect Mr S.
Attivo was chasing the SIPP provider by 18 November 2019. But I couldnt be sure 
that it was checking how much of Mr Ss fund had been disinvested by that point. 
Given the amount of money involved, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for it to 
do so. Had it done so, Attivo wouldve known that the majority of Mr Ss fund was 
available to reinvest by 20 November 2019.
I thought Attivo shouldve made further enquiries with the SIPP provider when the 
money wasnt available as expected on 26 November. And I thought it shouldve
checked how much of the money was available by that time. At that point, I 
considered it wouldve been reasonable for Attivo to make arrangements for a partial 
transfer, in line with the SIPP providers guidance. Had it done so, I thought it was 
likely that the majority of Mr Ss fund wouldve been reinvested rather sooner than it 
was.
I thought a reasonable timescale for actioning a partial transfer would be ten working 
days from 26 November. So Mr S wouldve reinvested on 10 December 2019.
I said Attivo should work out the actual value of Mr Ss new SIPP at the date on 
which he accepts a final decision for this complaint, and compare this with its notional 
value, had the funds been received and invested by the new SIPP provider on 10 December 2019. Attivo should then make a payment to increase the value of the 
SIPP by any loss determined by this comparison, taking into account any available 
tax relief and annual allowance considerations. I also set out instructions for payment 
of the compensation directly to Mr S, if Attivo is unable to pay it into his SIPP. 
Mr S responded to say that he agreed with my provisional decision.
Attivo said it also accepted my provisional findings. As the majority of funds were received 
by 26 November 2019, Attivo said they couldve been partially invested from 27 November 
2019. On this basis Mr S wouldve suffered a loss of around £13,000. It said it was prepared 
to pay compensation to Mr S in line with that loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have said they accept my provisional findings. But Attivo has said it will 
calculate compensation based on a reinvestment date of 27 November 2019. It considers 
the partial reinvestment couldve happened on this date, because the funds were available 
on 26 November 2019. But the funds would have been available by this date for transfer to 
the new SIPP provider and then reinvestment  not immediate reinvestment.  
So I think its unlikely the reinvestment couldve taken place within one day of the funds 
being available. Attivo wouldve had to contact the new SIPP provider who, in turn, wouldve 
then had to request the funds from the existing SIPP provider. The new SIPP provider 
wouldve had to wait for the funds to arrive and then arrange for them to be reinvested. With 
that in mind, I still consider a realistic timeframe for completing the reinvestment process is 
ten working days. 
So I remain of the view that compensation should be calculated based on a reinvestment 
date of 10 December 2019.
Putting things right
Attivo should work out the actual value of Mr Ss new SIPP at the date of this final decision 
and compare this with its notional value, had the funds been received and invested by the 
new SIPP provider on 10 December 2019. Attivo should then make a payment to increase 
the value of the SIPP by any loss determined by this comparison, taking into account any 
available tax relief and annual allowance considerations.
If Attivo is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax.
However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be
applied to 75% of the compensation. As set out in the provisional decision I have assumed 
that Mr S will be a basic rate taxpayer. 
I further recommend interest to be added to the loss amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple for any time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes Attivo to pay the compensation from the date it receives notification of Mr Ss acceptance of this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Attivo Financial Services Limited to 
pay compensation to Mr S in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman