DRN-3642850
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N complain about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC), declining a claim under their home 
insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Mrs N and Mr Ns property suffered roof 
damage, with hip tiles being blown off the rear of their roof. The dislodged tiles also caused 
damage to a fence and an outbuilding. They contacted QIC to tell them about the damage 
and lodge a claim. 
QIC arranged for a surveyor to visit the property and assess the damage. The surveyors 
report concluded the proximate cause of the damage was due to the storm and there wasnt 
any pre-existing or ongoing external building defects that werent related to the insured peril, 
(storm). However, the report concluded the damage to the outbuilding (a polycarbonate roof) 
wouldnt be covered due to the form of construction of the outbuilding (being open on one 
side). Based on the surveyors report, QIC initially accepted Mrs N and Mr Ns claim (for the 
damage to the property roof).
 
However, following a technical review by QICs in-house surveying team, who looked at the 
surveyors reports and photographs of the damage, QIC declined the claim on the grounds 
that the damage to the property roof was due to pre-existing issues with the mortar bedding 
of the tiles, which had broken down over a significant period of time. QIC added that the 
damage was also the result of cyclical exposure (of the mortar) to the elements, where 
moisture sets into the defect, then freezes, causing the defect to expand. Over time, this led 
to the tile losing adhesion to the mortar. So, QIC declined the claim due to gradual 
deterioration (an exclusion under the policy).
Mrs N and Mr N challenged QICs decision and complained. But QIC didnt uphold the 
complaint, maintaining their decision to decline the claim. While they accepted there were 
storm conditions at the time of the incident, based on the conclusions of their in-house 
surveying team review QIC said the cause of damage to the roof was gradual deterioration, 
so the claim was declined. 
As they declined the claim for the damage to the roof, they also declined the element of the 
claim relating to the fence as there was a policy exclusion that damage to a fence in a storm 
would only be covered if the fence was damaged at the same time and by the same cause 
(as damage to the property). As the claim for damage to the roof had been declined, QIC 
wouldnt consider damage to the fence. 
On the damage to the polycarbonate roof of the outbuilding, QIC referred to the policy 
definition of an outbuilding, which excluded outbuildings with one or more open sides (as 
was the case with Mrs N and Mr Ns outbuilding).
However, QIC did acknowledge that Mrs N and Mr N had been inconvenienced by having 
been told initially their claim was covered under their policy. In light of this (and the time 
taken to then decline the claim) QIC offered £150 in compensation.
Mrs N and Mr N then complained to this service. They disagreed with QIC about the wind 
speed at the time of the incident, saying they were much higher than the 41 mph QIC had 
stated in their final response. Mrs N and Mr N thought QIC were looking at the wrong date 
for the incident. Mrs N and Mr N wanted QIC to accept their claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She thought QIC had acted fairly in declining 
the part of Mrs N and Mr Ns claim relating to the outbuilding, as it didnt meet the definition 
of an outbuilding in the policy. On the element of the claim relating to the damaged tiles, she 
thought the exceptional wind speeds in the area at the time of the incident (up to 90 mph 
from the weather service reports shed seen) would have caused the damage to the tiles 
even if theyd been in good condition. While there was some evidence of wear and tear, she 
thought the storm was the main or dominant cause of the damage. So, it wasnt fair for QIC 
to rely on the exclusion to decline that element of the claim. She also thought QIC should 
also accept that part of the claim relating to the fence.
In response to the investigators conclusions, QIC offered to arrange a further surveyor 
inspection of Mrs N and Mr Ns property to assess the damage to their roof. However, Mrs N 
and Mr N rejected this, given the time taken in assessing their claim. So, they requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. QIC then responded to the investigators view to disagree 
with it. They said they were satisfied with their decision to decline the claim. They thought 
the breakdown of the bedding mortar was clear (from the photographs) and it was the direct 
cause of the damage, which the storm had merely highlighted. They also thought it was fair 
to offer a second, independent assessment and that it was unreasonable for Mrs N and Mr N 
to decline it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mrs N and Mr N.
The main element of Mrs N and Mr Ns complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim, on 
the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent 
the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the mortar bed 
of the tiles. 
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC said they were satisfied there were storm 
conditions around Mrs N and Mr Ns property at the time of the incident, noting a highest 
wind speed of 41 mph. This accords with the weather report provided by QIC for the date of 
the incident. However, Mrs N and Mr N say the wind speed was much higher than the figure 
QIC referred to (which, looking at the definition of a storm in the policy quoted in the final 
response, wouldnt actually have constituted as storm). So Ive looked at the reports from the weather firm this service uses. For the weather station nearest to Mrs N and Mr Ns property, 
on the date of the incident the report indicates a peak gust of 90 mph (and an average wind 
speed of 56 mph for the day) and describes the conditions as a dry storm.  Based on this, I 
agree with Mrs N and Mr N and Ive concluded there were storm conditions present on the 
date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs from QICs surveyor show some of the hip tiles on 
the rear of the roof of Mrs N and Mr Ns property have come off. Theres a tile lying on the 
polycarbonate roof of the outbuilding, suggesting damage consistent with impact from a tile 
as it came off the roof. Both types of damage are ones wed expect in storm conditions, 
particularly high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm 
typically causes.
The third question is therefore key, given QIC declined the claim (for damage to the roof) on 
the grounds that the cause of the damage was the pre-existing condition of the mortar bed, 
which QIC say had deteriorated over time. Ive considered this issue carefully, together with 
the reports from QICs surveyor and the opinion of QICs in-house surveyor team. Ive also 
looked at the photographs of the damaged roof taken by QICs surveyor, particularly those 
specifically referred to by QIC when disagreeing with our investigators view. Taking all these 
things into account, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining Mrs N and Mr Ns 
claim (for damage to the roof). Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: [We 
dont cover] d. anything that happens gradually.
QIC also refer to their in-house surveyors opinion, which states:
the damage to the main roof hip tiles is consistent with gradual mortar failure. The 
underlying cause of the damage was the breakdown of the hip tile bedding mortar 
over a significant time period.
Theres a further reference to the in-house surveyors opinion that
damage has occurred due to the cyclical exposure of the elements and the 
resulting freeze/thaw effect. This is where moisture gets into a defect in the mortar 
and between the tile and bedding. This moisture then freezes, causing the defect to get bigger and the adhesion to the tile to breakdown. This repeatedly occurs over the 
years until the mortar reaches the end of its serviceable life.
However, looking at the photographs of the roof, particularly those highlighted by QIC, Im 
not persuaded they show the mortar was in poor condition. There arent visible cracks or 
gaps, either in those places where hip tiles have come away (or where they havent). Ive 
also noted the remaining mortar bed under the displaced tiles looks to be freshly exposed. 
This suggests the bond before the incident wasnt weak (to the extent it then led to the tiles 
being displaced). This doesnt suggest to me there has been any significant breakdown of 
the kind set out by QICs in-house surveyor, as theres no indication of any ageing or 
deterioration. And the surveyor who visited the property didnt (in his report) indicate there 
was any pre-existing or ongoing external building defects that werent related to the insured 
peril, (storm). 
 
Taking these points into account  particularly given the onus being on QIC to show the 
exclusion applies  than Im persuaded the storm conditions are, on balance, the main or 
dominant cause of the damage. 
Ive also considered the severity of the storm on the date of the incident. As noted above, the 
reports from the weather service we use indicates a maximum wind speed of 90 mph and 
describes the wind as a dry storm. The wind speed is significantly higher than QICs own 
policy definition of storm force winds (55 mph). A wind speed of 90 mph would (on the 
Beaufort Scale) be classified as Hurricane level. At this level, expected damage would 
include tiles being displaced, which is consistent with what happened in this case.
Taking all these conclusions into account, then Im not persuaded QIC have shown the 
exclusion applies. And so, they havent acted fairly in declining Mrs N and Mr Ns claim for 
damage to the roof.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider the other elements of the claim. On 
damage to the fence, as QIC declined the claim for the damage to the roof, they also 
declined the element of the claim relating to the fence. In their final response, QIC referred to 
the following policy exclusion, under the Storm section where it states that it doesnt cover:
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges 
unless your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause
As Ive concluded the roof of Mrs N and Mr Ns property was damaged by the storm, then I 
think damage to the fence would also fall within this definition. So, Ive concluded QIC acted 
unfairly in using the exclusion to decline the claim for damage to the fence.
On the issue of damage to the polycarbonate roof of their outbuilding, while outbuildings are 
included within the definition of Your Home in the policy, the policy also (when defining 
outbuilding) states that it doesnt cover:
5. car ports or any structure that is open on one or more sides.
Looking at the photographs and description of the outbuilding at the property (where the 
polycarbonate roof was damaged), I think it would fall within the above exclusion, having one 
or more open sides. So, Ive concluded QIC acted fairly in declining that element of Mrs N 
and Mr Ns claim.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think QIC need to do to put 
things right. As Ive concluded QIC cant rely on the policy exclusion of gradual deterioration 
to decline the claim for damage to the roof, I think they should settle that part of the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the 
policy, as appropriate). 
Similarly, as Ive concluded QIC cant rely on the policy exclusion for damage to a fence in a 
storm unless the home was damaged at the same time and by the same cause, I think QIC 
should also settle that part of the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Thinking about the inconvenience and time taken to assess the claim, QIC offered £150 in 
compensation to Mrs N and Mr N. Taking all the circumstances of the case into 
consideration, I think thats a fair and reasonable sum.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs N and Mr Ns complaint in 
part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settles those parts of the claim for damage to the roof and the fence in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, 
as appropriate).
Pay Mrs N and Mr N £150 in compensation for inconvenience (if they havent already 
paid it). 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs N and Mr N accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman