DRN-1833358
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) with her mortgage.
What happened
During a meeting in 2001 Ms B took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time she was 
sold a MPPI policy to protect her mortgage payments if she was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought that the policy was presented as optional and that it wouldve suited 
Ms Bs needs at the time.
Ms B disagreed. She says it wasnt made clear the policy was a PPI policy and thought she 
had to have it as part of mortgage application. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B says it wasnt made clear she was taking out a PPI policy because it was described as 
a Total Mortgage Protection Plan and that she thought she had to take the plan in order to 
get the mortgage. 
Halifax needed to make sure Ms B understood the policy was optional and that Ms B agreed 
to take it. 
Halifax have given us a copy of the MPPI declaration form. I can see that there is a separate 
section that deals with MPPI titled Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). Within the 
section it recommends considering TMPP which covers the planholder for amongst other 
things accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment.
And I can see Ms B has signed directly under the statement Yes, I would like to take 
advantage of the TMPP.
So I think the way MPPI is presented here does make it clear that Ms B had a choice in 
taking out the policy. And from the information provided I think its likely Ms B wouldve 
understood what the plan covered. Just because the plan had a different name from PPI 
doesnt mean it was mis-sold. Businesses are entitled to make up their own packages providing they make it clear the customer has a choice about taking the products on offer. 
And I think Ms B chose to take out cover here by signing to take TMPP.
Halifax advised Ms B to take out the MPPI. What this means is that Halifax not only had to 
provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Ms B could 
make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for her for the following reasons:
Ms B was eligible for cover and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Ms B says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings she could use to make her repayments if she couldnt work. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits or savings and covered her for longer 
for up to 24 months if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if she 
lost her job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Ms B in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments and her 
circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time. And 
if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether Halifax gave Ms B information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take the policy out.
I dont if Halifax gave all the information as it shouldve. But even if there were problems with 
the information and advice, for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on 
what Ms B has told us about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken 
out the MPPI policy given the proper information. 
This means Ms B isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Halifax. I note that Halifax 
have made a gesture of goodwill payment to Ms B for the commission it received from the 
sale of the policy which I think is a fair way to resolve this complaint
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.Caroline Davies
Ombudsman