DRN-3643047
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society have unfairly blocked her account 
following transactions she made to her partner.
What happened
Nationwide contacted Mrs C in March 2021 about a series of payments she had made to an 
account in Sri Lanka between December 2020 and the beginning of February 2021. Mrs C 
feels Nationwide looked into her account because of a scam payment connected to her 
daughter that was credited to Mrs Cs account in December 2020.
Mrs C explained that the payments were being sent to her partner in Sri Lanka who she had 
met in 2015. She evidenced that she had visited Sri Lanka numerous times since 2015 and 
explained the payments were partly to invest in the upgrading of one restaurant her partner 
owned and other payments were to develop a new restaurant on some land that her partner 
had gifted to her. 
Nationwide had suspicions that these payments could be a result of a scam and they asked 
Mrs C for further evidence proving that her partner owned the restaurant or that she legally 
owned the land in question. They asked for proof of exactly what the payments were for, 
such as building materials or labour. Mrs C said that it wasnt easy to get hold of the 
information and her partners lawyer in Sri Lanka would have some of it. But it would be 
difficult to obtain due to internet issues in Sri Lanka, the effect of the COVID-19 over there 
and language barriers. Eventually she said she felt what she had already provided was 
enough and she was unwilling to provide more. She didnt plan to make any further 
payments regardless as the businesses were doing well.
Nationwide placed a hard block on Mrs Cs account, meaning she was unable to use her 
internet banking or the debit card for the account. This led to her having to go into the branch 
to make any necessary payments or transfers. She eventually stopped her wages from 
crediting the account and instead began to use a separate account she held with 
Nationwide. Nationwide said it would only lift the block if Mrs C provided the evidence it had 
requested, or she acknowledged she was the victim of a scam. 
Mrs C referred the complaint to our service and the investigator issued a view saying that 
while its reasonable for a bank to question consumers about payments it feels are 
suspicious, it cant place a block on an account indefinitely. She recommended that 
Nationwide unblock the account, monitor any future payments and pay Mrs C £100 
compensation for the inconvenience the block has caused. 
Nationwide responded and said that following a review, the full account blocks were not 
necessary, so they lifted the restriction on Mrs Cs debit card. But they felt the online banking 
block should remain and this should have applied to both her accounts since March 2021. 
As a result, the placed an online banking block on both of Mrs Cs accounts. They again said 
that they needed evidence showing Mrs Cs partner owned and ran the businesses to rule 
out the possibility of a scam and could not remove the blocks until that happened. 
The investigator issued a second view in which they provided evidence of Mrs Cs most 
recent trip to Sri Lanka in February 2022, including photos of her with her partner and 
evidence of her travel. As there was clear evidence of her link to the country and her partner, 
the investigator again said Nationwide should either unblock the account or close it if they 
feel there is too much of a risk of future scams. She also recommended increasing the 
compensation to £200.
In response to this, Nationwide invoked the Banking Protocol and reported the matter to the 
police, who visited Mrs Cs home on 4 June 2022. Mrs C has said she was having a family 
barbeque at the time and this caused embarrassment for her. She explained to the police 
that she was not the victim of a scam and they didnt take it further.
Nationwide then gave Mrs C notice of the closure of both her accounts with them. They were 
set to close on 21 August 2022. The investigator recommended an increase in the 
compensation to £350 for the length of time taken for Nationwide to invoke the Banking 
Protocol and make the decision to close Mrs Cs account. Nationwide disagreed and felt the 
£200 already recommended was fair in the circumstances. Mrs C has said that she would 
accept £350 compensation though she still feels it isnt enough considering the worry and 
upset the situation has caused her.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the recommendation the investigator made for £350 compensation is 
fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
The crux of this complaint is how Nationwide have treated Mrs C and handled her accounts 
from March 2021 to August 2022. 
Ill start with the payments themselves. There were four flagged payments made to an 
account in Sri Lanka. These totalled £6,500 and were sent to the account over the course of 
almost ten weeks. This first payment appears to have been to a new payee and the following 
ones were sent to the same account. From what I can see, I think a fraud warning appeared 
when Mrs C made the first payment, but she wasnt contacted directly by Nationwide at the 
time she made the payment, or the future ones, to ask any questions prior to them leaving 
her account. It seems likely this is because they did not look particularly out of character 
when compared to her normal account activity. 
Nationwide didnt contact Mrs C until March 2021, over three months after she had made the 
first payment. It isnt clear why Nationwide took so long to contact Mrs C if it had concerns 
that these payments were not genuine and were the result of a scam. But, regardless of the 
delay, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to contact Mrs C and ask further 
questions around the payments considering the amounts, frequency and that they were to a 
new international payee. 
On balance, I think the hard block that stopped Mrs C from using her debit card and her 
online banking was a disproportionate response to the situation. The payments in question 
were historic payments that had already left the account. And I note that when Nationwide 
tried to recover these, the beneficiary bank responded and said the beneficiary had 
confirmed they were genuine payments. And the beneficiary bank didnt highlight any concerns with the beneficiary account being related to other fraudulent transactions. 
Nationwide kept the account blocked for many more months and in June 2022, some 18 
months after the first payment was made, it invoked the Banking Protocol which resulted in 
the Police visiting Mrs C. Later, when the Police didnt take the matter further, Nationwide 
decided to close Mrs Cs accounts. I dont find it was necessarily wrong for Nationwide to 
take this action. I say this because it had genuine ongoing concerns for Mrs Cs wellbeing 
and ultimately decided it didnt want to continue to offer banking services to Mrs C given 
those ongoing concerns. My view, however, is that Nationwide let the matter go on for too 
long. If it had taken the actions it ultimately took earlier, perhaps around April 2021 when  
Mrs C indicated she wouldnt be providing further evidence of the legitimacy of the 
payments, she wouldnt have had a further 14 months of uncertainty, and the distress and 
inconvenience that entailed.  
Because of this, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Nationwide to pay Mrs C £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the significant delay in 
Nationwide making the choice to invoke the banking protocol and close her account.     
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs C £350 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience they delay has caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman