DRN-3214762
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to raise a direct debit indemnity claim for 
payments taken from his account by direct debit, without his agreement, when he asked 
them to. 
He would like them to refund the money taken and he wants compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him by the error. 
What happened
Mr M says that he made an agreement with his council to pay them £100 and £300. Instead, 
payments were made from his Monzo account, by way of direct debit, of £115.97 on 30 April 
2021, and £304.16 on 4 May 2021.
Mr M contacted Monzo and asked them to raise a direct debit indemnity claim so that he 
could get back the extra money that had been taken from his account. 
Monzo didnt raise the direct debit indemnity claim so Mr M complained. Monzo didnt uphold 
the complaint. They said that they had acted in line with their regulatory requirements in 
asking Mr M for evidence before they could take his direct debit dispute further. They were 
happy to raise the claim if Mr M provided the evidence that they had requested. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this decision, so he came to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that it was reasonable for Monzo to 
want to check that an error had occurred before they raised a claim. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome, so the complaint has now come to me.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr M wont be happy with my decision. I think that Monzo were entitled to ask 
for further evidence of an error having occurred with the payment to the council before they 
raised a direct debit indemnity claim. Ill explain why. 
Monzos terms and conditions provide a link to the Direct Debit Guarantee that states the 
following:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or 
your bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of 
the amount paid from your bank or building society
If you receive a refund you are not entitled to, you must pay it back when the 
organisation asks you to
Monzo say that this doesnt mean that they must refund any money paid from Mr Ms 
account without asking further questions to establish whether an error has been made. I 
accept this as the Direct Debit Guarantee does state that the refund should be given if an 
error is made. I think that, to establish whether an error was made, Monzo were entitled to 
ask further questions and request more evidence.
Monzo asked Mr M to provide evidence to support Mr Ms claim that he was supposed to 
pay lower amounts than those collected by the council. Ive seen the evidence provided by 
Mr M to Monzo and I dont think that this is enough to show that the council clearly shouldve 
taken lower payments. So, I dont think its clear that an error has been made here, in the 
way the guarantee explains. That means that I think it was fair for Monzo not to raise a claim 
for him.
Monzo have said that they will raise a claim if Mr M provides the evidence that shows an 
error occurred. Mr M can still provide this evidence to Monzo if he wishes. But for the 
purposes of this complaint, I think that Monzo have acted reasonably and fairly. So, I dont 
require them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Rita Parmar
Ombudsman