DRN-2328278
The complaint
Miss N complains that a car she acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Ltd (CFS) (trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) wasnt 
fit for purpose. She would like to reject the car, have a refund of all the payments she has 
made. And compensation for loss of earnings, insurance and travel costs.
What happened
Miss N says she took out a Conditional Sale Agreement on 16 February 2019 for a three-
year-old car with 9,327 miles on the clock. She says in May 2019 the car suddenly stopped 
working. As no fault could be found BPF arranged for an independent inspection which also 
found no fault.
Miss N says she experienced the same problem in July and August 2019. BPF arranged 
another independent inspection which couldnt replicate the fault but advised if there was a 
fault it needed more time with the car to reproduce it.
BPF said there was no evidence there was a fault with the car.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision in which I found: -
- Miss N took out a Conditional Sale Agreement on 16 February 2019 for a three-year-
old car with 9,327 miles on the clock. It might be reasonable to expect more wear, 
tear and repair issues with a used car than, for example, with a new car. However, 
we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale.
- Miss N complained about her car suddenly stopping in May 2019. BPF arranged an 
independent inspection which is what I would have expected it to do. That report 
found no faults with the car. So, I found it reasonable that BPF didnt allow Miss N to 
reject the car at that point.
- Miss N continued to have problems. An invoice dated 21 August 2019 confirmed the 
fault couldnt be replicated but a loose wire had been found and refitted. With regard 
to this BPF subsequently paid £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
- As Miss N still wasnt happy BPF arranged a further independent inspection. This 
couldnt replicate the fault. It noted the issues Miss N was experiencing might be 
down to the engine type which could seem under powered in certain conditions. The 
report stated this wasnt a fault but a characteristic.
- Miss N gave us a breakdown recovery report, but this didnt indicate a problem with 
the car suddenly stopping.
- I found the wording on the job sheet dated 21 August 2019 unclear. I was inclined to 
agree with BPFs view that there is fault and we need to have the vehicle for longer 
to reproduce the issue was more likely to have meant to read as there is no fault..
- For me to say rejection would be reasonable I had to be convinced that there was a 
problem present or developing at the point of sale for which BPF was responsible. I 
didnt find any evidence of this. Two independent reports found no faults and not 
been able to replicate the problem Miss N experienced. 
- It was possible the early issues Miss N had may have been resolved by the 
reconnection of a loose wire. I had no evidence that the issues Miss N experienced 
after that were identical to the first problem she had.
- Miss N was frustrated at being asked to get a further inspection on her car at her own 
cost.  But as the further issues were after Miss N had the car for more than six 
months the onus was, unfortunately on her, to show if there were point of sale 
problems for which BPF was responsible.  
- As Miss N chose not to arrange a further inspection, I didnt think I could reasonably 
expect BPF to allow Miss N to reject her car. Or to compensate her in the way she 
wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF has accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments for me to 
consider.
Miss N didnt accept my provisional decision. She made several points which I will consider 
in turn.
Firstly, Miss N has made a couple of general points. She doesnt feel I considered all the 
information I had been given and that I hadnt followed the law. I would like to assure Miss N 
I have considered all the information I have been provided with. When we write decisions, 
we focus on the key points. We dont note in detail every point each side has made. We do 
however fully consider all the information provided. Just because a specific point hasnt been 
made in the decision doesnt mean it wasnt considered.
With regard to the law we consider it, but we are not bound by it. We usually say if problems 
arise within the first six months of having a car its the responsibility of the business to 
investigate to see if there were any issues present or developing at the point of sale. And, if 
so, we usually expect the business to address these. And Miss N is right in that we usually 
say its reasonable to allow one attempt to repair.
In this case despite two independent inspections no fault was found with Miss Ns car.  A 
loose wire was found and refitted for which BPF paid £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Had any 
other faults been found I believe BPF would have addressed them, but none were found.
The independent reports covered the issues Miss N had initially and later on in July and 
August 2019. These reports cover the first six months of Miss N having the car. Miss N tells us she has continued to have problems. But once she had the car for more than six months 
the onus was on her to show there was a problem that was present or developing at the 
point of sale for which BPF was responsible. But she hasnt done so. 
Miss N has made a couple of specific points which I think its helpful to address as I think she 
may have misunderstood what I put in my provisional decision. Firstly, she says she didnt 
refuse to take her car into the garage  she did so several times. I think Miss N is referring to 
a specific comment in my provisional decision when I noted she chose not to pursue a 
further inspection at her own cost. I believe what I wrote was correct, but I dont think that 
comment implies I thought Miss N always refused to take her car into a garage  there are 
clearly occasions when she did.
Secondly Miss N has understood from my provisional decision that BPF arranged another 
inspection as she wasnt happy. She says it arranged another inspection as the car broke 
down again. I think both are correct  I was commenting that Miss N wasnt happy that the 
car broke down again, BPF responded by arranging another independent inspection. I dont 
think that was unreasonable.
Finally, Miss N says she thinks its unreasonable for her to have to continue to pay for a car. 
And to work out what the problem is herself. I do understand her frustration, but I think BPF 
has acted reasonably. It hasnt been able to identify a fault with her car. It could be the most 
likely explanation is, as stated in the second independent inspection report, that the engine 
type could seem under powered in certain conditions. The report stated this wasnt a fault 
but a characteristic. 
I have considered very carefully all the comments that Miss N has made. But unfortunately 
she hasnt given me any new evidence or information that would allow me to feel I should 
change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman