DRN-2905691
The complaint
You Mr G complains following the increase in premium that was asked of him by Aviva 
Insurance Limited, to renew his motor insurance policy with them. 
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with Aviva taken out in 2018. It had an annual premium of 
just under £1,000. Mr G had eight years unprotected no-claims discount. 
The policy renewed in 2019 and the annual premium had increased to just over £1,750.     
Mr G was unhappy with the increase required and complained to Aviva. 
Aviva responded to say that between November 2017 and November 2018, there had been 
three incidents which were recorded as fault claims. They said this had impacted on the 
premium required and thought that it had been calculated correctly and fairly. They did 
however, acknowledge that the level of service they provided had fallen below their 
expectations. They offered Mr G £100 for not responding to all emails he had sent them. 
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
He said that he was not at fault for the incidents and that they had been targeted attacks on 
him. He therefore didnt think the premium increase was fair. The investigator thought that 
Aviva had acted fairly. He said that they were entitled to settle the claims if they felt they had 
to and that they acted fairly in doing so. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view. He didnt agree that he was at fault for the claims 
or that the premium increase had been calculated fairly. As he remains unhappy, its now 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
Ive summarised Mr Gs complaint in less detail than he has presented it. And my findings 
will focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint and so wont be as detailed as he 
might like. Neither of these actions are meant as a discourtesy. Instead, they reflect the 
informal nature of our service. But I can assure Mr G (and Aviva) that Ive considered the 
whole file. If I dont mention something, its not because Ive ignored it  I havent  its just 
that I dont think doing so is necessary to reach a fair outcome on this complaint.
As the investigator explained to Mr G, we dont decide which party is liable for causing an 
accident, as thats a matter for the courts. But we do consider whether an insurer has acted 
as they are allowed to do under the policy terms, and whether they reached their decision in 
a fair and reasonable way. 
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy and see that the terms and conditions state that Aviva can, If we 
want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming under the policy 
the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our own benefit to recover 
any payment we have made under this policy. This means that Aviva can settle claims as 
they see fit, whether Mr G agrees with that or not. This is a normal clause in insurance 
policies and this service doesnt interfere with insurers decisions as long as we think theyre 
reasonable.
Mr G was involved in three incidents between November 2017 and November 2018. I have 
reviewed the claim notes and what both parties have said about these incidents and I 
believe Aviva has settled them fairly. 
An arbitrator concluded that the first incident should be settled on a split basis. After the third 
party took evasive action following Mr G pulling out on to a side road. A claim where the 
insurer cant recover all of their costs is described as a fault claim, it doesnt necessarily 
mean youre entirely to blame for it. The notes on the second incident say that the third party 
hit a tree after taking evasive action following Mr G pulling out on to a main road. Aviva 
accepted liability for this, on the basis that they didnt feel they would be able to defend the 
accident in court if it came to it. Aviva also accepted liability on the third incident after 
assessing CCTV footage following a collision between Mr G and a third party.  
So, I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions when it recorded the reported incidents. And I dont require it to change this. This 
obviously impacted on Mr Gs no-claims discount, which stood at eight years before these 
incidents. The policy conditions state that following these incidents, the no-claims discount 
would reduce to zero. Aviva however, only reduced it to three years. I am satisfied they 
acted fairly here. 
Mr G has asked to see how the premium increase was calculated. As the investigator 
explained, this is commercially sensitive information that we cant provide. However, I have 
reviewed it to make sure that the new premium was calculated fairly and I am satisfied that it 
was. 
Aviva did offer Mr G £100 for not always responding to all emails that he sent, or responding 
in a timely manner. Having considered this, I agree the level of service might not have 
always been as Aviva would have hoped. However, I think £100 is fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr G. I know that the incidents mentioned have 
had a real impact on him. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont require Aviva to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve 
Mr Gs dispute with Aviva  can do for him.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited dont need 
to do anything more than they have already offered, to resolve this complaint. 
They should pay Mr G the £100 offered, if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman