DRN-4167245
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zopa Bank Limited is holding him liable for a loan he says he didnt 
apply for.
What happened
I wrote to both parties on 18 August 2023 setting my thoughts on this complaint. I said:
As youre aware, a £25,000 loan was applied for in Mr Ms name with Zopa in 
August 2021. The loan funds were paid into Mr Ms genuine bank account. Mr M then 
transferred the funds into his friends account, Mr G. Mr M has explained that Mr G 
told him the funds came from a loan hed applied for himself, but which Zopa wouldnt 
pay into his own account due to restrictions with his account provider. Mr M says he 
therefore thought he was simply sending the £25,000 to Mr G for a loan hed applied 
for in his own name.
Mr M discovered the loan was in his name when Zopa sent him arrears letters. He 
then spoke with Mr G who told him it was a mistake as hed applied for the loan in his 
own name, and only used Mr Ms account details for the loan to be paid into. Mr M 
contacted Zopa to explain he hadnt applied for the loan himself. He also told Zopa 
that, to avoid his credit file being adversely affected, he was paying off the loan using 
funds he was obtaining from Mr G.
Mr M complained to Zopa about the loan being in his name as he said he didnt apply 
for it. Zopa explained the details entered when applying for the loan were done by the 
person who applied, and their system found no concerns when completing a bank 
match. And so, they wouldnt investigate this further.
Unhappy Zopa was holding him liable for the loan, Mr M brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator was satisfied Mr M didnt apply for the loan, 
nor did he benefit from it. And while he may have been overly trusting of his friend by 
sharing his account details, she didnt think Mr M gave Mr G consent to apply for the 
loan in his name or had knowledge he was doing so. So, she didnt think it would be 
reasonable for Mr M to be held liable for the loan capital, interest or charges. She 
also recommended Zopa remove any reference of the loan from Mr Ms credit file. 
But in respect of the repayments Mr M made towards the loan, as Mr G had been 
sending him money for this, she didnt think Zopa should refund these.
Zopa didnt agree, they said:
Although they accept Mr M didnt apply for the loan, theyre not convinced 
about what was discussed prior to the loan being applied for.
Looking at the chat history (that Mr M had provided), Mr M gave Mr G his 
bank account details and then paid the loan funds to him. There isnt however 
much evidence regarding the application for the loan  and so theres nothing 
to say Mr M didnt authorise Mr G to act on his behalf before the loan 
application date.
They didnt think writing off the loan was reasonable based on the evidence 
available. But they would agree to write off the interest and remove reference 
of the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M added:
He didnt accept Zopas proposal as he felt hed sufficiently shown he didnt 
apply for the loan.
He hadnt received any further money from Mr G since March 2023, which 
was affecting him financially.
He provided an agreement from April 2022, electronically signed by Mr G, in 
which he accepted liability of the Zopa loan and agreed to repay the amount 
owed.
He highlighted discrepancies in the loan application such as it included 
addresses he hadnt resided at; an incorrect salary and the mobile phone 
number wasnt his. 
He provided further correspondence between Mr G and himself in which hes 
attempting to obtain further funds for the loan repayments. And that also 
shows Mr G confirming the loan, that he applied for, should be in his name.
Hed reported the matter to the police and Mr G is due to be remanded in 
August 2023 until appearing in court in November 2023. This is also because 
of other fraud carried out by Mr G  like this loan application  against other 
victims. The police have also contacted Zopa about this matter.
He provided an email from the police confirming the Zopa loan was being 
investigated as a criminal matter.
After our investigator shared the information that Mr M had provided, Zopa further 
added:
Theyd reviewed the information Mr M provided, and it does confirm the story 
he gave when first reporting the matter to them  as he said Mr G asked for 
the loan funds to be paid into his account, which he agreed to, and then 
transferred the funds.
Theyve held Mr M liable for the loan as he agreed for it to be paid into his 
account and willingly transferred the funds without completing any due 
diligence in terms of where the money originated from.
The police had been in touch with them in July 2023 sending them a 
production order, to which theyve responded.
My current thoughts
A consumer shouldnt be held liable for a credit agreement they didnt consent to. Ive 
therefore considered whether, on balance, I think Mr M consented to this loan 
agreement. Having done so, I dont think he did. This is because:Mr M has provided chat history, and email correspondence, with Mr G 
regarding the loan. This doesnt show what was agreed in respect of the loan 
before it was applied for, as it happened over a telephone conversation. 
Nevertheless, there is a significant amount of post loan application 
correspondence that shows Mr G admitting he applied for it and that he did so 
in his own name. And alleging that the error in Mr M being pursued for the 
loan repayments is an error on Zopas part.
This correspondence also shows Mr M asking Mr G to provide proof hed paid 
off the loan, as he claimed. Although Mr G says hell send the proof it wasnt 
received by Mr M, as the loan hadnt been paid off. I consider this deception 
supports the likelihood Mr G was dishonest from the outset.
Ive found Mr Ms testimony both reliable and persuasive here. Its been 
consistent from the point of him reporting the loan to Zopa, raising the 
complaint and referring it to the Financial Ombudsman. Theres nothing, from 
what Ive seen, to suggest Mr M has been dishonest regarding what 
happened  including his understanding as to where the loans funds came 
from and why he paid it to Mr G.
Mr M has provided a signed letter from Mr G in which he admits liability for 
the loan. Although I cant confirm the authenticity of Mr Gs signature, Mr M 
has provided the email enclosing the letter from Mr G. I therefore have no 
reason to question its authenticity.
The loan application includes discrepancies  including both the mobile 
number and email address differing from those Mr M uses and provided to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Mr M has provided evidence that Mr G is being 
investigated by the police as a criminal matter. And Zopa has confirmed the 
police contacted them about it.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied Mr M neither applied or consented to 
the loan.
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be reasonable for Zopa to pursue Mr M for 
the debt outside of the loan agreement. But I dont think that would be fair here. This 
is because, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mr M had knowledge Mr G had 
applied for the loan in his name. Nor am I satisfied that he has benefitted from the 
funds, as they were subsequently sent to an account in Mr Gs name shortly after.
Ive considered Zopas point that Mr M allowed the loan to be paid into his account 
and willingly transferred it to Mr G without completing any due diligence in terms of 
where the money originated from. Having thought about this, I dont think Mr Ms 
actions were unreasonable here. I think he was sadly the victim of fraud by a friend, 
in which he trusted, and so genuinely believed he was assisting him with a banking 
issue. Mr G also explained to Mr M the funds were originating from a loan and so, I 
dont think the funds showing as being received from Zopa Bank Limited wouldve 
raised concerns. Or given him reason to think it had been applied for in his own 
name  particularly in the absence of receiving any loan documentation from Zopa. I 
therefore dont think Mr M could reasonably have prevented what happened and, 
because of this, it wouldnt be appropriate to attribute responsibility to him.
Im also satisfied Mr M hasnt received funds from his own bank in lieu of the loan 
money paid away from his account. As such, Zopa not pursuing him for the debt 
wont put Mr M in a position of betterment.For these reasons, Im currently of the view that it wouldnt be fair for Zopa to hold Mr 
M liable for the loan. And so, to put things right, I think they should write off the 
outstanding amount on the loan and remove any reference of it with credit refences 
agencies.
On a final note, Ive considered that Mr M has made repayments towards the loan. 
Ive therefore thought about whether these should be returned. Mr M has explained 
that he received funds from Mr G up until March 2023 to pay towards the loan. 
Having reviewed Mr s bank statements, it seems the money he received from Mr G 
was of varying amounts and not entirely consistent with the loan repayments. I dont 
however think it would be fair for Zopa to refund the loan repayments Mr M paid 
using money received from Mr G. But given Mr Gs final payment to Mr M was on 13 
March 2023 and used for the 20 March 2023 repayment, any further repayments 
towards the loan after this have come from Mr Ms personal money. I therefore think 
these should be refunded, plus 8% simple interest added for the loss of use of money 
hes suffered.
Ive also considered the impact of whats happened on Mr M. And while I accept the 
loan was applied for fraudulently by Mr G, with Zopa similarly an innocent party here, 
I think Mr M has suffered trouble and upset that couldve been avoided by Zopa. This 
is because I think Zopa ought to have identified this loan as fraudulent and taken 
steps to reduce the impact on Mr M upon being notified  such as by writing off the 
loan as Ive suggested. By not doing so, I think Mr M has experienced a significant 
amount of worry along with financial detriment. Because of this, I think Zopa should 
also pay Mr M £300 compensation to recognise this.
To put things right and next steps
I therefore think, to put things right, Zopa should:
Write off the outstanding amount on the loan.
Remove any reference of the loan with credit reference agencies.
Refund any repayments Mr M has made towards the loan from 21 March 
2023 onwards. And pay 8% simple interest, per year, calculated from the date 
of each payment to date of settlement  less any tax lawfully deductible.
Pay £300 compensation.
Mr M agreed with my thoughts on the complaint. But Zopa didnt add anything further.
Now that both parties have had an opportunity to respond, I can proceed to making my final 
decision on Mr Ms complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further points for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
above. I therefore remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair for Zopa to hold Mr M liable for 
the loan. And so, to put things right, I think they should write off the outstanding amount on 
the loan and remove any reference of it with credit refences agencies. Zopa should also 
refund any payments Mr M has made from 21 March 2023 onwards  when he stopped receiving money from Mr G  and pay 8% simple interest to recognise the loss of use money 
suffered. Further, Zopa should pay £300 compensation to Mr M for the impact this matter 
has had on him  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Zopa Bank Limited to:
Write off the outstanding amount on the loan.
Remove any reference of the loan with credit reference agencies.
Refund any repayments Mr M has made towards the loan from 21 March 2023 
onwards. And pay 8% simple interest, per year, calculated from the date of each 
payment to date of settlement  less any tax lawfully deductible.
Pay Mr M £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman