DRN-2418485
The complaint
B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected a cheque used to pay for a function without 
warning. 
What happened
On Bs behalf, Mr K and Mr H issued a cheque to pay for an event at a hotel. After the event, 
the merchant paid the cheque into their account. On 15 October 2019 HSBC says it 
processed the cheque but found some issues that caused concern. As a result, HSBC says 
it tried to call the authorised signatories for Bs account.
HSBC says its calls werent answered. Mr K and Mr H, who bring the complaint on behalf of 
B, have told us that they didnt receive any calls from HSBC on 15 October 2019. 
B complained and HSBC responded on 22 November 2019. HSBC said it had acted 
correctly as it had valid concerns the cheque wasnt genuine. HSBC also said its calls 
werent answered which meant it took the decision not to pay Bs cheque, in line with the 
account terms. 
B referred its complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
was satisfied that HSBC had genuine concerns about the cheque and said the account 
terms allowed it not to approve the payment. The investigator was also satisfied HSBC had 
tried to call before declining the cheque. In addition, the investigator said that HSBC didnt 
provide any information about the reason the cheque was declined to the merchant. 
On Bs behalf, Mr K asked to appeal. He said that neither he or Mr H had been contacted by 
HSBC on 15 October 2019. Mr K also said that his wife contacted someone she knows who 
works at HSBCs local branch and was told that, due to staff absences, no one tried to call. 
On Bs behalf, Mr K asked to appeal. As a result, Bs complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bs representatives feel that there was no legitimate reason for HSBC to have raised 
concerns over the cheque in question. I understand the cheque was entirely genuine and 
was being used to pay for an event B held. I agree HSBCs decision not to pay the cheque 
caused some inconvenience to the officers of B as a new payment had to be arranged. But 
Im not persuaded that HSBC acted incorrectly or unfairly by declining to pay the cheque. 
HSBCs account terms say it can block a payment where it has concerns there may be 
fraudulent activity. Whilst this was a genuine cheque, that doesnt mean HSBC made an 
error when it identified it for further checks. In response to the investigator, Mr K said he 
feels there has been a serious breach of HSBCs systems. But I havent found anything to 
support that argument. I can see that HSBCs staff identified issues with Bs cheque that 
required further review. Whilst I understand Mr Ks frustration, thats a step the terms and 
conditions allow HSBC to take. I havent been persuaded that HSBC made an error or 
treated B unfairly when the cheque was identified for further review. 
Mr H, Bs treasurer, had his telephone numbers on file with HSBC. I recently asked HSBC to 
send me systems information to show whether it called the numbers it has for B on 15 
October 2019. HSBC has provided systems notes that show it called Mr Hs telephone 
numbers on 15 October 2019 at 13:21. HSBC has told us it called both the landline and 
mobile numbers on file but they werent answered. I understand Mr H has told us he didnt 
receive those calls. 
Where information is unclear or disputed by the parties involved, Ill make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened, based on all 
the available information. In this case, whilst I understand Mr H says he had no missed calls 
on 15 October 2019, I think the contact information HSBC has sent is persuasive. It shows 
call attempts were logged at 13:21 on 15 October 2019 but no answer was received. On 
balance, Im satisfied HSBC called as it claims. 
As HSBC wasnt able to confirm the cheque was genuine, I think the decision not to pay it 
was reasonable. 
Mr K has told us that his wife discussed Bs account with a member of staff and was told no 
attempts to call had been made. As Ive said above, Ive seen HSBCs contact information 
and am satisfied the calls were made. 
Mr K has also told us the merchants bank advised it the cheque was stopped because it 
was counterfeit. But I cant comment on information the merchants bank may have given. 
I understand Mr K and the other officers of B found the issue to be embarrassing, but I 
havent found that HSBCs actions were unfair. As Ive said above, Im satisfied HSBC did 
call Mr H as it claims and that the cheque was declined in line with the account terms. As Im 
satisfied HSBC has dealt with Bs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman