DRN-2104326
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its bank account without 
good reason and did not give it notice or allow it to make other arrangements.
What happened
Barclays wrote to E on 11 July 2019 to say that its account would be closed on 11 October 
2019. E says it did not receive this letter or earlier ones in 2018 about a know your 
customer (KYC) information request. But that it did complete KYC forms on 16 July 2019. It 
contacted its relationship manager in November 2019 when it found that the overdraft limit 
had been removed. It did not get a response and complained and in January 2020 was told 
that the account was going to be closed and that Barclays would not change that decision. It 
paid E £25 for not responding to its email in November 2019. It told E that it deemed it to be 
trading overseas. Barclays then wrote to E about repayment of the overdraft on the account 
and having had no response made formal demand, wrote the balance of just over £3,000 off 
and closed the account. 
E says it was not trading overseas, that Barclays had an incorrect address for E and that the 
address it had given for statements and bank cards abroad was the personal one of the 
director. It did not think Barclays ever had a reason to close the account and it claimed that 
its actions had caused it damage.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
- The address on the closure letter differed to that of the company at Companies 
House by one letter of the postcode and the property number. He thought that the 
actions of E were consistent with this not being received. E had said that it had 
received the letter of 7 November 2019 addressed in the same way.
- There was no evidence that E had told Barclays by secure message that the address 
was not correct, as it said it had, or of any post being returned undelivered.
- Barclays was entitled under the terms and conditions of the account to decide to 
close the account with at least two months notice. E had known that the account 
would be closed after January 2020 and it had not been closed until May 2020. 
- He thought that the closure decision was clear and not something wed suggest is 
wrong. It was made because Barclays thought E was trading overseas not because it 
had not responded to letters.
- Barclays had provided a screenshot showing a trading address for E abroad that it 
had held since April 2016.
- E had referred to correspondence about the closure of another account and that was 
something that would need to be considered separately.
E said it wanted to see its history of secure messages and would be making a request for 
this to Barclays. E did not accept that it not receiving and so responding to the KYC letters in 
2018 was not the reason for the closure. The issue was what had happened before the 
closure and the poor process operated by Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays position is that it gave E notice to close its account because it considered it was 
trading overseas. In the notice of closure, it referred to its terms and conditions and the 
relevant one here is Section 9 page 32  part 9.4 stating that it can close an account by 
giving two months notice. There was no suggestion that E had breached any of the terms 
and conditions. 
I agree with E that a KYC form would be material information to any assessment of the 
nature of its trading. Ill come to the issue with post but strangely here E had been asked to 
complete a KYC form after the decision to close the account was made. When E realised the 
position it effectively appealed that decision through the relationship manager. I understand 
that Barclays still did not accept that a registered address in this country showed it was 
trading here. It says that since April 2016 an address abroad had been used for statements 
and as the director seems to accept to receive items such as any bank cards. I appreciate E 
and Barclays have different opinions about where it trades. My making any finding on that 
wont make a difference here because Barclays is entitled to make a commercial decision 
about whether to continue to operate the account. Im satisfied that it reviewed this again 
when E complained and so I wont be interfering in that.
E has not provided any more evidence about any issues with the address recorded as its 
registered one by Barclays. Ive seen an extract of the information about E before January 
2020. At Companies House the registered address for E itself had a postcode ending in the 
letter F. The address for the director there had a postcode varying only by the last letter 
ending in T. Ive separately seen that the postcode ending in F relates to number 142 of 
the same road as the postcode ending in T which is at number 124. Both are for the same 
building name which I understand to be used for a number of unrelated companies 
registered addresses too.
On Es account at least one item of post was received. Based on Barclays records that 
address had been used since 2016 with no post recorded as returned undelivered. I cant 
resolve exactly why the postcode it used varied by the one digit to that of the company at 
Companies House although the information Ive stated above may be relevant. Barclays said 
it relied on the information provided by E, not what was in the public domain and if, as E 
says, it did think the address was wrong it was up to it to make sure it was changed. 
Irrespective of how the discrepancy arose I think that had E known about the closure it would 
have taken action earlier. 
But in any event, Ive already set out that Barclays did not change its position when it had all 
the information. And as our investigator says, rather than the account being closed in 
October 2019 the account was not closed until May 2020. E knew that Barclays had 
removed the overdraft limit in November 2019 and about the impending closure with the final 
response to the complaint in February 2020. Barclays wrote to E at the new address it gave 
after January 2020 asking it to repay the overdraft. Clearly E had originally had the benefit of 
this borrowing. It did not repay it, and this had now been written off.
Barclays has recognised that at times its communication has been poor and paid a small 
amount of compensation for that. Overall, Im not persuaded that there are reasonable 
grounds for me to find that Barclays should take any further action to resolve this complaint.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to the director of E,My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman