DRN-2460166
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their Home Insurance claim for a 
theft at their property.
All references to AXA also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs L said all the windows were closed shut with handles locked in place, but 
confirmed they didnt have keys for them, as they were never provided when they 
moved into the property
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim as they say they havent fulfilled additional 
endorsements and requirements which were applied to their policy. The relevant 
wording in the policy endorsement says:
We will not pay for any claim for theft, attempted theft, malicious damage or 
vandalism at the home unless you comply with the following requirements: Whenever 
you, your family or an authorised person are not present at the home the following 
security devices must be fitted and put into full operation.
It goes on to say ground floor, and any other accessible windows, need to be fitted 
with key operated locks with detachable keys. 
AXA said in their report Mr and Mrs L confirmed a small window at the top of the 
window in the bedroom had been left open. AXA said it was likely the window had 
been used to allow access to the handle of a larger window in order to gain entry to 
the property
Mr and Mrs L disagree the window could be classed as accessible. I can appreciate 
why Mr and Mrs L feel this way, as the window may not seem to be accessible from 
an everyday means. But Ive not seen any information to persuade me entry was 
gained in another way
Mr and Mrs L said the police told them the thief entered the property through a door, 
but as theyve not been able to provide any documentation or a report to show this, 
Im not persuaded this was the case.
So I wont be interfering in AXAs decision to decline the claim. The endorsement in the 
policy sets out what was expected in clear language. And based on the information 
available, I dont think the conclusion reached by AXA was obviously wrong. 
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman