DRN-3663575
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K checked his credit report and found incorrect address information recorded by 
Tesco Bank. This will have caused him concern. Mr K wanted Tesco Bank to be 
warned about this and punished, but our role isnt to punish the business. Instead if a 
mistake has been made, we will require the business to ensure the consumer is put 
back in the position they would have been had the mistake not occurred and, where 
appropriate, we will award compensation.
The incorrect information has been removed and so Mr Ks credit file is back in the 
position it would have been had this not been recorded. The outstanding issue is 
whether Tesco Bank is required to pay Mr K compensation and if so, how much.
Mr K raised the issue with Tesco Bank in March 2022. He also raised the issue with 
the credit reference agency. Based on evidence provided by the credit reference 
agency, Tesco Bank was made aware that there was incorrect address information 
recorded for Mr K but it took three attempts before Tesco Bank agreed for the 
information to be removed. During this time Mr K had to spend time on calls to Tesco 
Bank in which it said it couldnt help him. 
I think Tesco Bank could have taken action sooner and the delays caused Mr K 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So, I think that he should be paid 
compensation.
Mr K is concerned about the impact this incorrect address information could have 
had on his credit file for the duration it was in place. I cannot take into account 
possible issues but instead can consider any evidence of the impact the mistake has 
had. Mr K hasnt provided evidence to show that this issue caused him any financial 
detriment.  
I have considered the length of time the wrong information was recorded but as I do 
not have evidence this caused Mr K any material detriment I have assessed 
compensation based on the actions Tesco Bank took once Mr K contacted it about 
the issue. Based on this I think the £100 compensation recommended by our 
investigator is reasonable.
As our investigator has explained it is not our role to say whether a business has breached 
data protection rules and if Mr K is concerned this has happened, he can contact the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should pay Mr K £100 compensation 
for the delay in removing incorrect information from his credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman