DRN-3774993
The complaint
Mr N complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank didnt do enough to 
prevent him losing money as part of a scam and didnt act fairly when it refused to refund his 
losses and instead told him he needed to repay his credit card balance along with interest.
What happened
Mr N used to have a current account and a credit card with Tesco Bank. Both are now 
closed. Mr N says Tesco Bank claims theres an outstanding balance on the credit card and 
has been asking him to repay this balance despite having closed the account.
Mr N says he heard about a cryptocurrency exchange on social media and decided he 
wanted to invest in cryptocurrency. He set up an account, sent a £25 payment from his 
current account to the cryptocurrency exchange in question and was able to transfer this 
money back to his account. Having carried out this test payment, he was happy to go 
ahead and invest in cryptocurrency.
On 4 March 2021  the following day  Mr N tried to send a £7,500 payment to the same 
cryptocurrency exchange, but the payment didnt go through.
On 5 March 2021, Tesco Bank called Mr N to say that it had stopped his payment and 
blocked his account because it had security concerns. Mr N told Tesco Bank that the 
payment was one hed tried to make and that he was investing in cryptocurrency and 
sending money to a legitimate exchange. Tesco Bank says it told Mr N that he might be 
being scammed and that he should check the FCAs ScamSmart website, its warning list 
and its warnings regarding this type of investment. Tesco Bank says it told Mr N that it would 
call him again the following day once hed had an opportunity to do his own research and to 
see if he still wanted to go ahead with the transfer. Mr N was unhappy about this and about 
the fact that he might lose money because of the delay.
The following day Tesco Bank called Mr N and says it asked him if hed done his own 
research and, having done so, if he still wanted to go ahead with the transfer. Tesco Bank 
says Mr N said he had, and that he wanted to go ahead with the transfer. Tesco Bank says it 
told Mr N that it would hold any future similar payments he made for 24 hours. Mr N was 
unhappy with this and complained. In the meantime, Tesco Bank released the £7,500 
payment. Mr N made another payment to the same exchange of £850 on 11 March 2021 
which went through.
On 15 March 2021 Tesco Bank says Mr N called to say that he believed hed been 
scammed  he said hed tried to transfer the money hed invested back to his current 
account and hadnt received the proceeds. He gave Tesco Bank the name of the broker hed 
been dealing with and complained that Tesco Bank hadnt done enough to protect him.
Tesco Bank investigated what had happened and said that the broker hed been dealing with 
wasnt authorised by the FCA and that the FCA had warned they were known to scam 
consumers in the UK. Tesco Bank said that it had warned Mr N that the payment he had 
wanted to make might be a scam and had suggested he conduct his own research, and that 
he would have realised he was being scammed had he done so. In the circumstances, 
Tesco Bank said that it wasnt willing to refund the losses he said hed made. Tesco Bank 
did, however, offer to pay Mr N £50 in compensation because there was a delay in 
investigating his claim. In addition, Tesco Bank offered to waive interest on Mr Ns credit 
card for two months as it said the transfer had gone from his current account which had 
been funded from his credit card. Mr N was unhappy with Tesco Banks response and so 
complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint and said that Tesco Bank should have 
asked Mr N more probing questions when he called him to say it had security concerns. In 
the circumstances, our investigator thought that Tesco Bank should refund the last two 
payments Mr N had made, less any amounts already refunded, and pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of the payments until the date of settlement. They also thought Mr N should 
have checked the FCAs register for details of the broker they were speaking to. Had Mr N 
done so, he would have seen that the FCA had published a warning about them. In the 
circumstances, our investigator thought it was appropriate to apply a 30% deduction for 
contributory negligence.
Mr N was initially unhappy with our investigators recommendation but ultimately accepted it 
although more recently he has said he should receive a full refund. Tesco Bank was also 
unhappy with our investigators recommendation saying that it couldnt have done more. 
Tesco Bank also disagreed with the award of 8% simple interest saying that the funds came 
from a money transfer from his credit card on which there was still an outstanding balance. 
Finally, Tesco Bank said that its not best industry practice to refund consumers who have 
transferred money into a wallet that they reasonably were aware a third party has access to 
and that any authorised or unauthorised payments out of that wallet should be for the 
relevant cryptocurrency exchange to deal with. Tesco Bank said that was what had 
happened in this case. Tesco Bank asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint. So, 
thats what Ive done. I issued a provisional decision saying that I agreed that Tesco Bank 
could and should have done more and that it should, therefore, refund some of his losses. I 
also agreed that Mr N could have done more and, in the circumstances, I said I thought 
Tesco Bank should refund 70% of his losses meaning Mr N took responsibility for 30% of 
them. I also agreed with Tesco Bank that the interest award our investigator had 
recommended wasnt right in this case, so I instead said Mr Ns account should be reworked.
Both parties were invited to comment on my provisional decision. Mr N said that he had 
purchased cryptocurrency, which was a commodity and that its purchase should, therefore, 
come under the Sale of Goods and Consumer Credit Acts. Tesco Bank didnt reply.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Tesco Bank doesnt appear to be disputing the 
fact that Mr N has been scammed  he was tricked into making payments into a 
cryptocurrency wallet by a broker who wasnt authorised by the FCA and was targeting 
consumers in the UK as part of the scam  and that money appears to have been taken from 
the wallet by the broker. Thats also why Mr Ns argument that he purchased a commodity 
doesnt help him  he did, in fact, buy cryptocurrency which he was then scammed out of. 
So, I remain of the view that Mr N was scammed, that Tesco Banks warning wasnt as good 
as it should have been, and that Mr N could have done more  in line with the approach we 
take to complaints like this.
In my provisional decision, I said that I thought Tesco Bank should refund 70% of Mr Ns 
losses meaning he took responsibility for 30% of them given that both parties could have 
done more. I remain of that view. I also remain of the view that the right way to do this  
given that the payments in question were funded by Mr Ns credit card  would be to rework 
his credit card.
Putting things right
Given the above, I remain of the view that the right way for Tesco Bank to put things right is 
to rework Mr Ns credit card account as if hed made a payment of £2,250 on 6 March 2021 
rather than a payment of £7,500 and a payment of £225 on 11 March 2021 rather than a 
payment of £850. In other words, that the right way to put things right in this case is for 
Tesco Bank to refund 70% of the second and third payments Mr N made and to do so by 
reworking his credit card account. In the unlikely event that reworking Mr Ns credit card 
account means his credit card account is in credit  because of payments hes made 
towards his credit card since then  Tesco Bank will need to refund that credit balance along 
with simple interest at 8% from the date the account was in credit to the date of payment. In 
the more likely event that reworking Mr Ns credit card account means his account is in debit, 
both parties will have to agree how that remaining balance is repaid taking all the usual 
considerations into account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint in part and requiring Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to rework Mr Ns credit card account as if hed made payments of £2,250 and 
£255 on 6 and 11 March 2021 respectively in the way Ive described above. The parties will 
have to agree how any outstanding balance, if any, is repaid once the account has been 
reworked taking all the usual considerations into account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman