DRN-4489294
The complaint
Mr A has complained that AWP P&C SA has declined two claims he made on his annual 
travel insurance policy that he has as part of his packaged bank account. He has also 
complained that it told him the claims were rejected due to his nationality and religion.
What happened
Mr A was abroad between June and October 2022 and made two medical expenses claims 
for incidents during that trip. Firstly, for an injury to his finger that happened on the outbound 
flight on 13 June 2022. Secondly, for injuries sustained from being the victim of a hit and run 
road traffic accident on 25 June 2022. 
AWP declined the claim on the basis that the information Mr A provided was unclear and 
insufficient.
Our investigator thought that AWP had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claims, in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr A disagrees and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on AWP by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the requirement 
for AWP to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim.
In relation to the emergency medical assistance service, the policy provided details of how to 
make contact and states:
Please tell us as soon as possible about any serious illness or accident abroad where you 
have to go into hospital or you may have to return home early or extend your stay because 
of any illness or injury. If you are unable to do this because the condition is life, limb, sight or 
organ threatening, you should contact us as soon as you can. You must also tell us if your 
medical expenses are over £500. If you are claiming for a minor illness or accident you 
should, where possible, pay the costs and reclaim the money from us when you return. You 
can call 24 hours a day 365 days a year or email.
Under the Emergency medical and associated expenses part of the policy, it states:
What is not covered
2. The cost of private treatment, unless authorised specifically by us.
Mr A didnt contact AWP until his return to the UK in October 2022, even though he was 
claiming £8,000 and £9,000 respectively for each incident. When asked by our investigator 
why he hadnt called the emergency medical assistance service, he firstly said that he didnt 
know who his insurer was and then secondly, that he didnt have any credit on his phone. 
He has provided some evidence that he contacted his banks online virtual assistant service 
in relation to the accident to his finger. But the screenshots he has provided arent dated. 
And, although the bank said it couldnt help and referred him to its travel insurance customer 
service team, there is no evidence that he then did go on to contact them.
Because Mr A didnt contact AWP at the time of the either incident, it wasnt given the 
opportunity to discuss his injuries or the appropriate treatment with him. And so it wasnt able 
to authorise his treatment in advance.
As our investigator has mentioned, it is the responsibility of a policyholder to show that they 
have a valid claim. Additionally, the policy wording makes it clear that as much detail as 
possible needs to be provided and that someone would need to supply all the information 
and documents that are asked for.
Mr A is of the view that he has given enough evidence for the claims to be paid. But looking 
at what he has provided, I can understand why AWP has concluded that the information is 
unclear and insufficient.
Claim for the finger injury on 13 June 2022
Mr A has provided two documents relating to this claim.
The first document is a handwritten report from the hospital dated 13 June 2022. This is very 
difficult to read but says something about Mr A having had two different accidents and 
having paid cash for the different transactions in hospital. It states the price of the second 
transaction as 1.8 million in local currency.
As far as Im aware, the finger injury was the first injury that Mr A sustained on his trip. So, 
its confusing that this document mentions him having two accidents, because the hit and run 
didnt happen until later. But as Ive said, the letter is very difficult to read, so it needs further 
explanation.
The other document is a handwritten medical report. It talks about admitting the patient, the 
injury being a cut to the left-hand little finger, stitches being done and a dressing applied. 
Then there is a list of medication followed by advice to dress daily, remove the stitches after 
seven days and bed rest for ten days. Someone has written £8000 at the bottom of the 
page.
Mr A hasnt provided any receipts for payment, which he says was 1.6 million in local 
currency, that his uncle paid for him.
Based on the limited information available, the injury sounds relatively minor. Given that Mr 
A is claiming £8,000 in medical expenses for treatment, its reasonable that AWP should 
require a breakdown of where those costs have arisen and proof of payment.
So, I think these two documents raise a number of questions that AWP would reasonably 
want to have clarification on, as well as the documents themselves not containing sufficient 
detail.
Claim for the hit and run injuries on 25 June 2022Mr A has provided a police report, timed and dated as being 10am on 25 June 2022. It 
states that Mr A has attended the police station to report being hit from behind by an 
unknown vehicle. It reports him as saying he was seriously injured and that a rescue team 
came to take him to the nearest hospital.
There is then a brief handwritten medical report. There is some uncertainty over the date of 
this document as it is dated 25/8/22 to denote August. But then underneath the 8, a 6 has 
been written to denote it as June.
Again, it is quite difficult to read. It talks about pain in the arm and leg and it mentions x-rays. 
There is then a list of medication and ends by advising to take the medication properly and 
bed rest for 5 days. Someone has written £9000 at the bottom of the page.
Given the apparently serious nature of his injuries and the cost of treatment, it would be 
reasonable for AWP to expect to see a detailed breakdown of the treatment he received and 
a breakdown of the costs.
Both claims
Because the information AWP received from Mr A was insufficient, it took further steps to try 
and verify the claims.
It emailed Mr As uncle and asked for evidence that he had paid the hospital and whether he 
had paid in local currency or sterling. He responded with a handwritten note stating that he 
had paid 1.6 million on 13 June 2022 and 1.8 million on 25 June 2022. He wasnt able to 
provide any receipts.
It rang the hospital on a few occasions and was hung up on after making its introductions. Mr 
A says the doctor was insulted that his written medical notes were apparently not good 
enough for the insurer, and so he didnt want to talk to AWP. It would be unusual for a doctor 
to take something like that personally when it is reasonably routine for medical professionals 
to be contacted for more information by insurers.
In response to AWPs request for more information, Mr A says he asked the doctor to email 
AWP directly. That email, dated 22 March 2023 is from the doctors personal email address 
as opposed to a work email address at the hospital.
It says that Mr A came into the hospital on two different dates  13 June 2022 and 26 August 
2022 (which is not the date of the second claim).
It states that on 13 June 2022 he had a cut on his finger which Mr A had said was injured in 
the aeroplane. They did stitches on his finger and told him some minor precautions for that 
minor operation. The bill was 1.6 million, paid in cash. It then reiterates that this was a minor 
operation.
It then talks about the second visit on 25 June 2022 (which now matches the date of the 
claim). It says Mr A had multiple injuries and they did his whole treatment and gave him 
some medicine for a quick recovery. The bill for 1.8 million was paid in cash at reception.
Looking at everything provided by Mr A, and the limited additional information that AWP was 
able to gain, Im satisfied that it is not enough for AWP to conclude that Mr A has a valid 
claim. As AWP has explained, it would expect to see the reports providing a detailed 
explanation of the injuries, a full breakdown of the treatment provided and an itemised bill 
breaking down the charges. The information provided by Mr A is unclear  both in terms of being illegible in places and in 
terms of the timeline of events. And there is insufficient detail in respect of the medical 
treatment and costs.
Overall, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AWP to 
decline the claims. It follows that I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Ill now move onto the second part of Mr As complaint, that he was told the claims were 
rejected due to his nationality and religion. Our investigator has already listened to the phone 
calls between AWP and Mr A and set out what was said, so I wont repeat it here. Having 
listened to the calls myself, I agree with our investigator that no-one at AWP said anything of 
a racist or biased nature. Instead, it was Mr A that raised the issue of his nationality and 
religion, speculating that they might be reasons for his claims not progressing. Therefore, I 
dont uphold this part of the complaint either.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman