DRN-3766217
The complaint
Mr D complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D was involved in an accident and said that the other driver (the third party) was to 
blame. So he was unhappy that LV accepted and paid the third partys claim. He felt that the 
third partys claim was fraudulent. He was also unhappy that the fault claim on his record 
adversely affected his no claims discount (NCD). 
LV said that they did take Mr Ds concerns into account, but ultimately it was up to them how 
they decided to deal with the claim, and they had good reasons for settling the third partys 
claim for his car repairs and personal injury. They thought theyd acted in line with their 
policy. 
The investigator thought that LV had acted reasonably. Mr D didnt agree and so Ive been 
asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont decide who is at fault for causing an accident, as this 
is a matter for the courts. Instead, we investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with their policy terms and conditions, when they decide who was 
responsible. 
Mr D said it wasnt until some time after the claim when he renewed his insurance that he  
discovered that LV had settled the third party claim. Mr D felt that it was a fraudulent claim 
and that LV shouldnt have settled it. He now wanted LV to claim monetary damages from 
the third party and to restore his full NCD.
Mr D said as follows. His car was stationary in traffic when the third party hit his cars 
bumper, leaving just a small scratch which Mr D didnt claim for. The third party wasnt 
paying attention and smelt of drugs. The third party s car had minimal damage too, just a 
scratch to his door panel. The police didnt come to the accident scene because the third 
party told them that he wasnt injured, and LV could have checked that. Mr D couldnt 
understand how LV could have paid the third party thousands of pounds in damages. 
As the investigator also explained, in Mr Ds case, and as in most car insurance policies, 
theres a term which allows an insurer to defend or settle any claim on his behalf, as they 
see fit. In Mr Ds policy its on Page 19 general condition 13.4 :
Were entitled tohave total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim; 
That means LV might decide something that Mr D disagrees with, but the policy allows them 
to do that. But wed still expect them to do so based on all the facts and evidence.
 
When liability is in dispute an insurer has an obligation to deal with a third partys claim, 
investigate both parties accounts and look at the evidence overall before deciding. I think 
that LV did that. Ive looked at their file and I see that they considered both parties accounts 
of what happened. They looked at the information Mr D had sent them. But they thought Mr 
D had turned across the path of the third party. There were no witness details and the police 
hadnt attended the scene to make a report. 
And although Mr D said the third partys car had minimal damage, often more accident 
damage can be seen when a car is inspected. The third partys solicitors sent evidence of 
the third partys car damage claim. LV saw an independent engineers inspection report 
detailing the damage, and a repair estimate. They checked that the damage the third party  
claimed was consistent with the account of the incident, and that the repairs were 
reasonable. As LV said, it wasnt in their interests to pay more than they had to. They would 
only settle on the best terms possible, and the costs involved were in line with what they 
would expect to pay to settle that type of claim. 
Mr D said the third party  wasnt injured at the time however, as LV said, injuries can still 
occur, even at low speed, and although they may not appear at the time they can do so 
afterwards. The third partys solicitor sent them a medical report confirming that the third 
party had accident-related injury, and LV had no reason not to accept that. 
Considering all the evidence, LV told Mr D that they were not confident that they could 
defend the third partys claim in court, so they settled the claim to prevent further costs. 
Thats a commercial decision and we wont generally intervene with that. Going to court is 
costly and time consuming and the result uncertain, so I dont think that LV acted 
unreasonably. As Ive said above, the policy allows them to settle as they think fit. I can see 
from LVs file that they did warn Mr D that that would likely settle, and I think that was 
enough. 
Mr D couldnt understand why LVs pay out to the third party was so high, and he was 
unhappy about the effect of that on his NCD. But as the investigator explained, its the 
having the fault claim that affects a consumers NCD, and the amount the insurer pays out 
has no bearing on that. 
I can see that Mr D is frustrated with what he feels is an unfair outcome. But LV do have the 
right to settle the claim as they did, and I consider that they reviewed the evidence fairly and 
reasonably and did what they were required to do under his policy. This means that I dont 
require them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman