DRN-3421101
The complaint
Mr N says Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H&T lent to him irresponsibly and 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
This complaint is about a single instalment loan H&T provided to Mr N as follows: 
Date Taken Loan status Monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayable
22/11/2018 outstanding 22 £900 £148.52 £3,267.44
Mr N told us that he took out the loan in order to pay other loans hed taken out and he was 
struggling to manage his debt and suffering from depression and anxiety as a result of all the 
financial stress.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. He still thought that the extent of his debt at the time and his financial 
circumstances meant that H&T shouldnt have lent to him and hes unhappy with the way 
our adjudicator has handled his complaint.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Im sorry Mr N 
feels our adjudicator didnt bring the correct approach to his complaint. Id like to reassure 
Mr N that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr N could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. And in those 
circumstances, I need to think about what a proportionate check wouldve likely shown up 
if it had been done. 
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about what this means for Mr Ns 
complaint.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr N provided when he completed his loan 
application. Mr N said he had a monthly income of £2,800 and that his regular monthly 
outgoings were around £1,760. H&T worked out that this shouldve left him with 
disposable income of around £1,040. So, I think its fair to say that it looked like the loan 
monthly repayments shouldve been affordable for Mr N.
But, although the loan looked affordable on the figures H&T had recorded, I think the lender 
shouldve done more in-depth checks in order to be able to make a better informed lending 
decision when Mr N applied for this loan. I say this because its unclear why Mr N needed to 
take out this expensive loan when its affordability calculation suggested he had more spare 
income than this each month in any event. 
Keeping also in mind the loan term, which meant hed signed up to pay the loan beyond 
what I think was a reasonably foreseeable period so his financial situation might realistically 
be likely to change, I think H&T shouldve been alerted to the need for more in-depth 
checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Ns finances. Im not satisfied that 
the checks H&T did went far enough. To my mind, checks should have included a full review 
of Mr Ns financial circumstances and, in particular, further verification of his expenditure so 
H&T could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable over the term of the loan. 
But although I dont think the checks H&T did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, thats 
not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ns complaint. I also need to be able to say that if 
H&T had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, these would have shown H&T 
that Mr N couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Mr N has mentioned an old credit report from 2012 but this is too long ago to help me 
understand more about what his financial situation was in 2018 when he took out this loan. 
The credit report extract that H&T relied on shows that Mr N had 19 active credit accounts 
open at the time and his total loan balance outstanding was almost £12,000. 
As well as this he had used 98% of his available £2,600 revolving credit balance (which H&T 
would have understood was probably what he owed on credit cards and/or store cards). H&T 
saw that Mr N also had an account that had become delinquent within the last 12 months 
and his worst payment status during the previous 3 years showed a default. 
A more up to date credit report from 2020 which Mr N has sent us shows his last 6 years or 
so credit history. I can see this seems to be broadly consistent with what Mr N has said 
about his financial situation at the time and the information on the credit report H&T has sent 
me.  
But I think its fair to say that H&T saw no seriously impaired credit information and no very 
recent signs to suggest that Mr N was in serious financial difficulty. He wasnt shown as 
being in bankruptcy or having entered into any formal arrangement with creditors and there 
was no record of any county court judgement at that time. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if the loan otherwise 
looked affordable.To sum up, I dont think H&T saw enough to have made it think the loan wasnt likely to be 
affordable and that it shouldnt have lent it .And I havent been provided with any further 
information to enable me to say what else H&T would have most likely seen if it had carried 
out proportionate checks. 
As I havent seen enough to show that better checks would have revealed that this loan 
wasnt likely to be affordable for Mr N, this means I cant fairly and reasonably say that H&T 
was wrong to lend on this occasion. 
This is why Im not upholding this complaint.
Im sorry that repaying his debt has proved difficult for Mr N. I expect H&T to treat Mr N 
positively and sympathetically if he is continuing to experience financial difficulty. I would 
encourage Mr N to provide details of his financial situation to H&T if he still needs time to 
pay the outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Mr N would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if 
he gives us a call. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr N but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman