DRN-4041810
The complaint
Mr B says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested 
that interest and late payment charges he paid on his shopping account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a shopping account provided to Mr B by Studio Retail Limited 
(Studio Retail). The account was opened in April 2020 when Mr B was given an initial 
credit limit of £150. This limit was increased four times until it eventually reached £925 in 
June 2021. 
Mr B says that Studio Retail shouldnt have granted him the credit limit increases as he was 
in financial difficulties by then. Studio Retail said it carried out appropriate checks given the 
relatively low level of initial credit given. It also said the credit limit increases were granted 
based on affordability scoring and checking with credit reference agencies. 
At first our adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly. But after Mr B sent in 
some further information about his financial situation, he decided to partially uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
On 25 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think Mr Bs 
complaint should upheld. I said Studio Retail didnt act unfairly in approving the opening of 
the account. I also said that because the details Mr B had given us about his financial 
circumstances were current rather than from the time of the credit limit increases, I didnt 
have enough evidence or information to make a finding about whether nor not Studio Retail 
had made a fair lending decision in respect of the credit limit increases. 
On 27 February 2023 I issued a further provisional decision where I partially upheld Mr Bs 
complaint based on our adjudicators finding, having been provided with bank statement 
information by him. I set  out an extract below:
I consider its reasonable to place significant weight on the bank statement information 
Mr B has now provided to us. Ive seen that before August 2020 Mr B seemed to be 
managing his finances reasonably well. But after that I can see that the level of outgoing 
from his bank account increases significantly. In the three months leading up to November 
2020 credit limit increase, Mr Bs average monthly spending and commitments were 
costing him an average of around £1400 per month, against an average income of around 
£650 per month. I can also see that the disparity between his income and expenditure 
continued to worsen in the months that followed. This would I think be at least partly 
explained by Mr B having stopped working in October 2020, after which he was wholly 
reliant on state benefits. 
I therefore think that had Studio Retail taken steps to find out more about Mr Bs committed 
expenditure, such as his living costs, it would very likely have recognised that by November 
2020 Mr Bs financial position was deteriorating and he was struggling to manage his credit 
with Studio Retail alongside his day-to-day living expenses. That means he didnt have 
enough disposable income to sustainably afford the credit limit increases from £450 to 
£800. 
It follows that I am issuing this decision as a further provisional decision in which I am 
partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. I am currently persuaded that Studio Retail acted 
unfairly in granting Mr B a credit limit increase in November 2020.
A copy was sent to both parties. Mr B has acknowledged receipt and has nothing further to 
add. I have not received a response from Studio Retail. The due date for receiving any 
further evidence or information was 13 March 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
wont be departing from my the findings in my second provisional decision. Having already 
set out detailed reasons for partially upholding Mr Bs complaint, I have nothing further to 
add in relation to the merits of this complaint. 
But I would once again remind Studio Retail that Mr B has told us that he is currently 
homeless and that his outstanding debt with Studio Retail is having an impact on his mental 
health. I would also again request that Studio Retail takes all necessary steps to assist Mr B 
in his efforts to find a fair and manageable way to pay back the balance that is still owing, 
properly taking into account his current circumstances. 
I therefore partially uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Mr Bs account to ensure that from November 2020 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to £450, including any buy now pay later interest 
(being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Mr B to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Mr B has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on his credit file from November 2020 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail should also remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file from 
November 2020 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already given, I am partially upholding Mr Bs complaint about 
Studio Retail Limited, which should put things right in the way thats set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman