DRN-2010552
The complaint
Mr G says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr G took out in 2000. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint because I dont think AXA gave Mr G clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because it didnt explain that claims related to medical 
conditions he had wouldnt be covered. I think this would have mattered to Mr G because he 
had a medical condition which wouldnt have been covered. So, he couldnt have claimed on 
the policy for everything he expected to be able to.
I dont think Mr G wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given him enough information about 
it. So, I think Mr G has lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
Ive taken into account AXAs comments, including what it said about being unsure that the 
exclusion of his medical condition wouldve mattered to Mr G  as it was likely to be well-
controlled. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. From what Mr G has said about the 
medical condition I think he wouldnt have taken the policy if hed realised his medical 
condition wouldnt have been covered. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr G would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr G owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year from then on.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  Mr G 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr G 
wouldve owed AXA something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year 
from then on.
D. AXA should tell Mr G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman