DRN-3703645
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc unreasonably and unfairly didnt
explain how her premium would increase for her pet policy for her cat when it took over the
administration of Miss Rs lifetime policy in 2015 when the underwriters changed.
What happened
Miss R bought her lifetime policy in 2008. The underwriter decided to withdraw from the pet
insurance market in 2015 and Jigsaw took over the administration of Miss Rs policy in
September 2014. And Miss R then renewed her policy through Jigsaw in May 2015 and
thereafter. Jigsaw isnt the underwriter of Miss Rs policy, so it doesnt set the premium
amount. However, it is responsible for explaining to Miss R how the policy will operate since
2015.
Miss R complained to Jigsaw in March 2021 when she received her renewal invite from
Jigsaw as her premium was going to increase by 94% from £483.52 to £940.37 per year.
She also made a complaint to the underwriter which was dealt with separately. So, this
complaint merely concerns Jigsaws administration of Miss Rs policy.
Miss R thought she should have been given much clearer information by Jigsaw when the
new underwriters took over her policy. Jigsaw didnt agree it needed to do anything more
than it had done. She also complained that when she queried the premium increase
Jigsaws adviser cancelled her direct debit without asking her and then there were several
further issues trying to get it reinstated with Jigsaw saying it had been reinstated but then
contacting Miss R that it was having problems collecting her payments. So, Miss R brought
her complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that Jigsaws information from 2015 wasnt as good as it
could have been. It merely said the premium may change and she thought that didnt give
Miss R enough information that as her policy was a lifetime policy, the premium could
increase as her cat got older. So, the investigator recommended Miss Rs complaint should
be upheld and that Jigsaw should pay her £300 compensation.
Jigsaw whilst it didnt agree, said it would abide by the investigators view. Miss R didnt think
the compensation was enough, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2022 and I said the following: 
As the investigator explained, Jigsaw like every other administrator of an insurance 
policy must follow the rules as set out by ICOBS Insurance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook. This doesnt just relate to the initial sale but also to renewals. One of the 
rules says it needed have taken reasonable steps to give its customers the following:
appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible 
form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed.
Sadly, all Jigsaw told Miss R was that her premium may change. It didnt explain 
anything about lifetime policies given that premiums might increase substantially and 
how the premium might be affected by claims or by the pet getting older. There 
wasnt enough explained to Miss R by Jigsaw when it came on board and at Miss Rs 
renewal in 2015 in my view to explain these things so that Miss R wasnt quite so 
shocked to her premium increase by 94% in just one year.
Obviously, Jigsaw wouldnt ever be able to say by how much premiums might rise in 
the future, but the right level of detail was missing. Miss R has benefited from the 
policy as she has made claims and her cats more longstanding conditions are being 
covered. So, I agree she entitled to some compensation. However, this is 
compensation for the shock of the increase suffered by Miss R. Its not compensation 
to fine or punish Jigsaw.
Miss R has referred to other similar cases to explain why she thinks the 
compensation suggested by the investigator of £300 is too low. I dont think it is too 
low though as its in line with what I have awarded in similar cases previously. Also, 
no decision by one ombudsman creates any precedence for any other ombudsman 
as each case is decided on its own individual facts and merits. So, given its of a level 
of compensation that Ive awarded previously, Im not minded to increase this 
compensation now.
In Miss Rs complaint form dated 27 April 2021, which Jigsaw has seen, she talked of 
the fact that she first made contact with Jigsaw to complain about the premium 
increase, the adviser thinking the premium rise was a mistake, cancelled Miss Rs 
direct debit without her consent. The adviser then told Miss R and there followed 
some considerable communication trying to get the direct debit reinstated. This 
caused Miss R further trouble and upset given the several calls she had to make to 
get it reinstated properly, and that it now had a new date to come out of her bank 
account. This issue wasnt dealt within this complaint or indeed with the complaint 
against the underwriter. But I consider this issue did cause Miss R further
unnecessary trouble and upset and I consider that Jigsaw should pay her another 
£150 compensation in addition to the £300 making the total compensation payable to 
Miss R to be £450.
Miss R accepted my provisional decision. Jigsaw didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, Im upholding this complaint. 
Given Miss R accepts it and Jigsaw didnt respond there is no reason for me to change my 
view as outlined above in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc to do the following:Pay Miss R £300 compensation for the lack of coherent warning on premium 
increases in lifetime policies.
Pay Miss R a further £150 compensation for wrongly cancelling her direct debit and 
the trouble and upset caused in reinstating it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman