DRN-4082052
The complaint
Mr P complains that TM Advances Limited was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr P Borrowed £1,500 from TM Advances on 14 June 2021. His repayments were £159 
monthly for 30 months.
Mr Ps representative says that his credit file at the time of the lending shows clear 
indications that he was already dependent on borrowing and that further lending was 
irresponsible.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Mr P would 
be heavily committed to credit repayments and had only recently taken out three high-cost 
loans. He recommended that TM Advance should refund all interest and charges on the loan 
and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
TM Advances responded to say, in summary, that the loan gave Mr P the opportunity to 
break the cycle of short-term lending and therefore put him in a better financial situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TM Advances lent to Mr P. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that TM Advances needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of credit is likely 
to be greater and the borrowers required to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the amount, 
or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ps case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ps loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did TM Advances make a fair lending decision?
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Mr P applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show TM Advances asked about his 
financial circumstances, checked his credit file and verified his income. I can also see that 
TM Advances had access to Mr Ps bank account, so Im satisfied it completed proportionate 
checks.
However, I dont consider TM Advances made a reasonable lending decision when it 
approved Mr Ps loan application. I say that because:
The loan was for a period of 30 months and TM Advances needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;Although Mr Ps accounts were up to date, the credit check showed he had taken out 
two high cost loans and a credit card in the last five months with a combined balance 
of over £4,000;
His bank account details showed 12 returned payments within the last three months;
Mr P was making significant payments to Buy Now Pay Later agreements;
In summary, Mr P was showing clear signs that he was already struggling financially and 
that it was irresponsible to lend him a further £1,500.
I acknowledge TM Advances says the loan gave Mr P an opportunity to break the cycle of 
high cost borrowing, but I cant agree that is the case given what I can see on his credit file. 
Indeed, I note TM Advances said the purpose of the loan was to fund the purchase of a car.
So, based on all the evidence, I find TM Advances did not make a fair lending decision for 
the loan, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. TM Advances Limited should: 
Add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr P made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr P having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TM Advances should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr P;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps credit file regarding the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman