DRN-2610825
The complaint
Miss O complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc blocked and closed her account. Miss O would 
like to know the reason for the closure and have her account reinstated. As well as 
compensation paid.
What happened
Miss O had an account with Barclays.
On 19 December 2019 Barclays reviewed Miss Os account and blocked it.
On the same day Miss O has told us she got a text saying she received a credit for £300 
which she didnt recognise so she contacted Barclays. Barclays removed the funds from her 
account.
On 31 December 2019 Barclays sent Miss O a letter giving her immediate notice to close the 
account. They also loaded an external marker onto Miss O.
Miss O was unhappy, so she complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated. They thought they should have given Miss O 60 days notice of 
closure and acknowledged this had caused her distress- they offered £100 compensation for 
this.
Miss O felt this didnt compensate her for the financial issues she had suffered as a result of 
Barclays loading an external marker. Miss O said that the closure of the account and the 
loading of the external marker meant she had her main account with another bank I will refer 
to as bank A, closed and this meant she had no access to her money and had to borrow 
from family and friends. She was being made homeless at the time and this all aggravated 
her mental health. She was charged for late or missed direct debits.
Barclays later removed the external marker against Miss O.
As Miss O remained unhappy with the closure of the account she complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He told Miss O that Barclays had offered 
a further £100 compensation following their original offer. Miss O said she wanted £1000 in 
compensation.
Our investigator thought that a further £250 taking the total compensation to £350 would be 
more appropriate taking into account the trouble and upset caused to Miss O.
Although Barclays accepted this view. Miss O didnt agree. She said the mistake Barclays 
had made meant she was not able to pay her bills and she struggled to open another 
account and her car almost got towed away and sold at auction.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Os account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Barclays have said this is what they were doing 
when they reviewed and blocked Miss Os account.
Miss O has said that as a result of the bank blocking her account she suffered financially and 
also mentally. Whilst I understand Miss Os strength of feeling, as Ive already explained 
financial businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. I 
have seen the evidence provided by Barclays and I can see that in blocking the account the 
bank were following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Barclays was 
unfair. 
Account closure
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. 
Barclays have acknowledged that they should have given Miss O 60 days notice of the 
closure of her account and have offered compensation for that. The have also accepted that 
the external marker shouldnt have been placed on Miss O.
Miss O says she wanted to know the reasons for the closure of the account. Whilst she 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Barclays isnt required to give her a 
specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by 
not giving Miss O this information  as much as shed like to know.
 
I appreciate that Miss O has had severe financial difficulties as a result of her account with 
bank A closing as this was her main account. I appreciate that she thinks that bank A closed 
her account because of the external marker, and she may be right. I understand that Miss O 
has brought a complaint to our service about this closure, so I wont be dealing with the 
issues that arose out of the closure of her account with bank A in this decision.
In deciding on the correct level of compensation in this case I have considered that Miss Os 
Barclays account was not her main account and indeed she herself has described it as 
dormant. She hadnt realised the account was blocked and closed until she received the 
letter advising of closure.
I appreciate that Miss Os direct debits werent paid, and she didnt have access to her 
money, but direct debit payments werent coming out of her Barclays account. Barclays 
cannot be held liable for any financial loss that she incurred because of the closure of her 
main account with bank A.Putting things right
Having said all that I agree that Barclays caused Miss O distress by not given her enough 
notice of the closure of the account but more importantly by placing a marker on her. The 
investigator has suggested £350 for the distress caused by Barclays and I think this is a 
reasonable and fair amount for the reasons Ive outlined above.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold this complaint.
I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Miss O £350 compensation for her material distress. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman