DRN-3058144
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim under his home 
insurance policy for damage to his property which he says was caused by a storm. 
For ease, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised events 
below.
Mr A has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Aviva. 
On 26 December 2020, Mr A says heavy wind and rain caused storm damage to his 
roof and resulted in rainwater entering his bedroom ceiling. 
The following morning, he contacted Aviva to make a claim on his policy. 
He said Aviva told him to expect a call from its contractor that same day or the 
following day to arrange repairs.
Mr A says he didnt hear from the contractor until 31 December  who arrived the 
same day to survey the roof. 
Aviva told Mr A on 6 January 2021 the claim had been declined because the damage 
was due to wear and tear and gradual deterioration over time, and was not the result 
of a storm.
Mr A said Aviva told him theyd speak to a roofer and get a quote for a repair. 
Mr A subsequently arranged for a local roofer to complete the repair works.
Mr A brought a complaint to this service - he believes his roof was maintained to a 
good standard prior to Storm Bella, and that Avivas surveyor didnt carry out a 
sufficient examination of his roof to be able to safely conclude the damage was 
caused by wear and tear.
He said hes been treated appallingly and expected a rapid repair. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She said Aviva hasnt disputed that a 
storm occurred on the night in question  and shes satisfied that as Storm Bella was 
widely known to be operating across the United Kingdom then, its accepted there 
were storm conditions.
But, having reviewed the surveyors report, she was satisfied there was enough 
evidence to support Avivas position that the damage was caused by wear and tear. 
So, she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly in declining the claim. Nor was she 
persuaded that Aviva had treated Mr A poorly and so, she didnt ask it to do anything 
more.
Mr A remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of the requirements set by the Regulator which includes that insurers 
must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably decline a claim.
I have considered whether Aviva dealt with Mr As claim fairly and in line with the policy 
terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr A says his roof was damaged following strong winds and rainfall in December 2020. 
The starting point is the policy document which provides cover in the event of damage 
caused as a result of storm or flood.  
While the policy doesnt define a storm in terms of windspeeds and rainfall, Aviva hasnt 
disputed whether there were storm conditions at the time in question. This, together with the 
fact there was a named storm  Storm Bella  affecting the United Kingdom at the time, 
satisfies me that there was a storm.
However, I must consider whether the damage claimed for is typical of storm damage and if 
it is whether the storm was the dominant cause. 
To determine this, Ive looked at the expert report completed by the surveyor. The report 
states:
the damaged area of the roof has had many previous slipped tiles as seen in [the] 
photos and this is the cause of wear of tear and also failed repairs that been 
previously carried out.
I have noted Mr As comment that he says he kept the roof well maintained - having replaced 
parts. But the experts opinion differs to this and highlights that previous repairs had failed. 
While I acknowledge Mr As concern that the surveyor didnt go on to his roof and instead 
used a camera pole to take photos of it, as this is an accepted means in which to survey 
damage, Im not persuaded this is a reason to discount the surveyors findings. Furthermore, 
as an expert in their area of work (and in possession of the requisite qualifications), Aviva is 
entitled to rely on the surveyors findings So, without evidence to the contrary, Im more 
persuaded gradual wear and tear was the cause of the damage. 
The policy says Aviva will not cover loss or damage caused by wear and tear or loss of 
value and the cost of maintenance or routine decoration. Because the policy excludes 
damage caused by wear and tear  which as our investigator explained generally means 
damage that is natural, and which inevitably occurs as a result of normal wear and ageing - 
Im satisfied Aviva has fairly declined Mr As claim. 
Accidental damage 
Mr A has extended accidental damage cover in respect of his building. Ive considered 
whether he would have a valid claim under this section of the policy, but he doesnt  and Ill 
explain why.  The exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear is a general one, which 
means it applies to the entire policy. 
As explained above, Im more persuaded the damage occurred due to wear and tear as 
opposed to being accidental  which is defined in the policy as a single unexpected event 
 so I dont consider there to be a valid claim under this section of the policy. Its important to explain that insurance policies are not designed to cover every eventuality. 
Its standard industry practice for insurers to limit their responsibility in respect of damage 
caused by gradual wear and tear. 
Avivas handling of the claim
Ive looked at Avivas handling of this claim. While I appreciate Mr As frustration at having 
waited longer for a call from Aviva than advised, and then having waited until 6 January 
2021 for a decision on his claim, I dont consider this to be unreasonable. Particularly when 
considered against the fact the claim was made during the festive period and against the 
backdrop of the pandemic  which meant fewer surveyors were available. So, I dont think 
its necessary for Aviva to apologise for how it has handled the claim.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr A but I hope he understands, based on the reasons set 
out above, why I havent upheld his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman