DRN-3568214
The complaint
Mr Z has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) handling of a claim 
he made under his Buildmark warranty.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, there have been several claims and complaints 
made to NHBC about issues with Mr Zs building. Our service has dealt with some of the 
complaints and separated them into different cases. This case relates solely to issues with 
Mr Zs property, and what he is entitled to under his individual warranty.
Mr Z had a claim for water damage caused by defective cavity trays accepted by NHBC in 
2018. NHBC arranged for repairs, which included the removal of the windows and brickwork 
to fix the cavity trays. NHBC also appointed a window specialist to establish whether there 
was a defect, with the windows themselves, which was contributing to the damage in Mr Zs 
property.
NHBCs window specialist identified some issues with the windows, but said these issues 
werent contributing to the damage covered by the cavity tray claim. So, following repairs to 
the cavity tray issue, the existing windows were reinstalled, rather than being replaced. Mr Z 
wasnt happy with this and complained to NHBC.
NHBC said the window issues couldnt be covered under the cavity tray claim, as it wasnt as 
a result of the same defect. Instead, it said the window issues were as a result of a defect 
with the window frames themselves. NHBC said the defect with the window frames wouldnt 
be covered under a separate claim either, due to the terms of the applicable section of the 
warranty (section 3).
Our investigator considered this complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
didnt feel that NHBC was required to replace the windows as part of the cavity tray claim 
and she said the defect with the window frames isnt something that is covered under 
section 3 of the warranty.
Mr Z didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
NHBCs Buildmark warranty is split into various sections of cover, some of which are 
based on the length of time since completion of the housing unit. In Mr Zs case, 
section 3 of the warranty (in force between 3 and 10 years after completion) is the 
relevant section of cover.
Section 3 covers damage caused by a defect in specific parts of the building only. A 
defect in isolation is not sufficient for cover to engage, it must be shown to be 
causing damage. And the defect causing the damage must be shown to be in one (or 
more) of the specified parts of the building which are set out in the policy document.
Mr Zs initial claim was accepted as there was damage, in the form of water ingress, 
being caused by a defect with the cavity trays. These form part of the load-bearing 
walls, which are a specified part of the building covered under section 3.
Its not in dispute that there is a defect with the windows. Various specialists and 
NHBC claims investigators have inspected Mr Zs windows and it seems to be 
accepted that that the window sashes are oversized. Due to this the frames are being 
pulled out of alignment and the hinges on the windows are failing. 
As the defect with the windows is separate to the defect with the cavity trays, I dont 
consider that NHBC acted unreasonably in not putting right the window issues as 
part of the cavity tray claim.
Under section 3 there is only limited cover for damage caused by a defect with 
windows. The policy terms set out that only damage caused by a defect with double 
or triple glazing panes to external windows or doors would be covered.
As the defect with the windows isnt a defect with the double or triple glazing panes, 
but rather with the window frames, I think NHBCs decision not to cover the issues as 
part of a separate claim is in line with the terms and conditions of the warranty.
Mr Z doesnt agree that the damage caused is solely as a result of the window 
frames. He says issues with the windows themselves alongside structural issues with 
the building are all contributing.
Aside from the cavity tray issue, which was repaired by NHBC under the initial claim, 
the expert reports Ive seen do mention possible deflection of the lintel above one of 
Mr Zs windows. However, the report obtained by Mr Zs property management 
company concluded that this was minor, and probably within acceptable parameters. 
None of the expert reports have linked the lintel issue to the reported water ingress. 
And crucially, none of the reports have linked any damage to a defect with the 
windowpanes  which they would need to for the window issues to be covered.
I appreciate Mr Zs comments that it doesnt make sense for NHBC to cover 
windowpanes and not window frames. But insurers/warranty providers are entitled to 
decide which risks they wish to cover and which they dont  providing this is clearly 
set out. And in my view, section 3 of the warranty is clear that only damage caused 
by a defect with the windowpanes would be covered.
Ultimately, Im satisfied NHBCs decision not to cover a claim for the defective 
windows is in line with the terms of the warranty. And Im not aware of any 
circumstances which would lead me to conclude it would be unfair or unreasonable 
to allow NHBC to rely on the terms of the warranty in this case. So, it follows that I 
dont think NHBC needs to replace Mr Zs windows.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint against 
National House-Building Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman