DRN-4527298
The complaint
P has complained about the way its claim under its Private Hire insurance policy for repairs
to one of its cars was handled by Haven Insurance Company Limited and its agents.
P is represented by Mr A, who is a director.
Although Mr A dealt with Havens repair agent on occasions, Ive mainly referred to Haven in
this decision for the sake of ease.
What happened
One of Ps cars was damaged in an accident on 15 January 2023. P made a claim under its
policy and Mr A said it wanted to use its own repairer, who Ill refer to as PR, to carry out the
repairs to the car. Haven arranged for an assessor, who Ill refer to as N, to inspect the car
and provide an estimated repair cost. N did this on 23 January 2023 and provided its report
to Haven. The report mentioned the car had been vinyl wrapped. N also authorised the
repairs. And P had purchased many of the parts needed for the repair. But when N asked
PR for details of their equipment for dealing with ADAS it decided it didnt want to do the
repairs. Mr A told Haven this and Haven appointed a repairer to carry out the repairs, who Ill
refer to as M.
It seems Mr A sent the images M needed to draw up an estimate straight away, but for some
reason M didnt think it had all the images it needed. As a result of this there was a delay on
Ms part in drawing up an estimate and it wasnt sent to Haven until 13 or 14 February 2023.
It seems M had forgotten to ask for the VIN number of Ps car and Haven had to ask Mr A to
provide this, which he did. It seems M then rejected the repair as it didnt have any room on
site. But it eventually agreed to take the car when Haven agreed to transport it to them. The
car went to M and it told Haven it was vinyl wrapped and asked whether repairing or
replacing this was covered by Ps policy. Havens underwriters said the vinyl wrap would not
be covered and Haven told M this on our around 8 March 2023. There then appears to have
been a delay with the parts needed to repair Ps car and M didnt start the repairs until 19
April 2023. Mr A has told us he had his car back fully repaired on 10 May 2023. But P had to 
pay £660 towards the repairs for the vinyl wrap.
Mr A complained to Haven on behalf of P about the delays with the repairs, its refusal to pay
for the vinyl wrap and the problems he had communicating with it on the claim. Haven issued
two final responses. One in which it said it would pay £100 for some handling errors by its
repair agent and one in which it said it didnt think its claims handlers had done anything
wrong.
Mr A asked us to consider Ps complaint. He set out his concerns and said hed lost out
financially as a result of Havens failings. This was in respect of the parts hed had to return,
the rental income hed lost on the damaged car, the cost of repairing or replacing the vinyl
wrap and the cost of re-licensing the car. He also mentioned hed lost his policy excess,
although this was to do with what he thought were errors in Havens handling of the claim
against the third party involved in the accident in which Ps car was damaged.
Our investigator said Ps complaint should be upheld. She said Haven had unnecessarily
delayed the repairs to Ps car from 15 February to 19 April 2023 and that it should pay him
£20 per day compensation for loss of use of the car in this period. But she didnt think Haven
needed to pay anything for the other losses Mr A had mentioned or further compensation.
She also explained that Mr A hadnt actually made a complaint on Ps behalf about the
handling of the third party claim. And that he would need to raise this with Haven and give it
a chance to respond before we could consider this aspect.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He
still felt M should have completed the repairs in time to avoid the need for Ps car to be
re-licensed. He also said he still felt he should get back the cost of returning the parts. And
he was unhappy about the fact Haven didnt have to pay more compensation meant it had
effectively paid no compensation at all, as the £100 P got was from its repair agent.
Haven didnt respond to the investigators view at all.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 December 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr As testimony about why PR wouldnt carry out the repairs to Ps car. This was
because N asked them questions about what equipment it had for carrying out repairs to
vehicles with ADAS equipment. I consider this was an unnecessary question in light of the
fact Ps car didnt have any such equipment. And I accept it put PR off doing the repairs.
This means the only reason it wouldnt do them and use the parts P had purchased was an
unnecessary question by N, who were Havens agent. And this means Ps position was
prejudiced because instead of the repairs to its car being carried out within three or four
weeks of the accident, it wasnt actually repaired until 6 May 2023. I estimate that if N hadnt
asked this unnecessary question the repairs would have been completed by 14 February
2023. This means P would have had its car back on 15 February 2023 and been able to rent
it out for use from this date. And it would not have had to pay £240 to re-licence it. So, I think
it is fair and reasonable for P to be reimbursed the re-licensing fee of £240. Haven should
also pay interest on this amount to compensate P for being without it.
I also consider it should get the rental income it lost on the car between 15 February and 6
May 2023 back. Im satisfied with Mr As testimony that this was £200 per week. Thats 11
full weeks and it means Haven will need to pay P £2,200 for loss of rental income. I think
Haven should also pay interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple from each week the
£200 would have been due starting the week commencing 18 February 2023 and finishing
the week commencing 29 April 2023. This is to compensate it for being without these funds.
If PR had carried out the repairs as it should have done, P wouldnt have lost out on
returning the parts. So, I also consider it to be fair and reasonable for P to be reimbursed the
£79.78 it lost because of this. Haven should also pay interest on this amount to compensate
P for being without it.
I do not consider Haven was entitled to deduct anything from Ps claim for the vinyl wrap. I
say this because I cant see anything in its policy that states it was entitled to do so. The
policy says it will pay the cost of repairing Ps car and this is what it should pay. Mr A has
said he had to pay £660 in respect of the vinyl wrap, which I have no reason to doubt. So, I
think Haven should reimburse this, plus interest.
Ive noted what Mr A has said about compensation for the poor service provided by Haven,
which I agree was very poor indeed. However, I cannot award compensation for distress toP as a limited company. And  in terms of inconvenience  I am satisfied that the £100 it has
received, plus the £2,200 lost rental income for not having its car when it should have done
is enough. For me it is irrelevant whether the £100 was paid by Haven or its repair agent, as
Haven is fully responsible for everything that happened.
I cant comment on the issues with the third party claim until Mr A has complained about this
on Ps behalf and Haven has had the chance to respond to the complaint.
I gave both parties until 20 December 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Haven hasnt responded. 
Mr A has responded on behalf of P and made the following further comments:
1. The only reason he dealt with Havens repair agent was because Havens staff 
requested he did so. 
2. P actually received the vehicle back from the repairers on 10 May 2023, not 6 May 2023, 
and P had to pay a £500 excess before it would release the vehicle.
3. P immediately contacted the vinyl wrap company, as the vehicle had to be wrapped 
before it could be presented for re-licensing. The earliest the vinyl wrap company could 
do it was 16 May 2023 and it was completed that day. 
4. After it had been wrapped P contacted the licensing agency to arrange for it to be 
inspected. The earliest date available was 6 June 2023. It passed the inspection first 
time on this day and the first day P hired it out was 7 June 2023. 
5. The cost of the vinyl wrapping was £660, not £600. 
6. P did raise within its initial complaint the issue of its losses due to Havens mishandling 
of the third partys claim and its failure to obtain dashcam footage. 
7. Ps losses are greater than indicated in my provisional decision, but P accept my 
calculations are based on estimated dates. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr As further comments and my responses are below. 
1. I appreciate P only dealt with Havens approved repairer at the suggestion of Havens 
staff. But this isnt material, as Ive concluded that if Haven had handled matters as it 
should have done Ps vehicle would have been repaired by its chosen repairer. 
2. Ive noted the information Mr A has provided on the date Ps vehicle was available to hire 
in points 2,3 and 4 above. However, this doesnt alter my view on what P should receive 
for loss of income. This is because if it took this period to get the vehicle ready after 
Havens repairer had completed its repair, it would most likely have taken the same 
period if Ps chosen repairer had done it. This means that P wouldnt have had it back to 
hire out on 15 February 2023, and would instead have had it back around four weeks 
later. So, it remains my view that £2,200 is the right amount of compensation for loss of 
income to P.  
3. I said in my provisional decision that the vinyl wrap cost £660 and provisionally awarded 
this amount to P.
4. I can see P raised the issue of its losses due to Havens mishandling of the third partys claim when it submitted its complaint to us in May 2023. But I have not seen any 
evidence it raised it with Haven prior to this. And Haven did not address it in its final 
response letters. In view of this, if P wants to complain about it, it will have to raise a new 
complaint with Haven. 
As Haven hasnt responded to my provisional decision and having taken into account what 
Mr A has said, I see no reason to alter my view on the fair and reasonable outcome to Ps 
complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Ps 
complaint about Haven Insurance Company Limited and make it pay P the following 
amounts:
£2,200 for loss of rental income on its vehicle.
£660 for the vinyl wrap, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date P paid
this amount to the date of payment.
£240 for the re-licensing fee, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date P
paid this amount to the date of payment. .
£79.78 for the cost of returning the parts, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from
the date P paid this amount to the date of payment.
My final decision
I uphold Ps complaint and order Haven Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive set out 
above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman