DRN-3552108
The complaint
Mr S complained about Monzo Bank Limited. He said a cash machine debited his account 
but didnt dispense his money, but Monzo refused to refund him.
What happened
On 30 May 2021, Mr S contacted Monzo and disputed a transaction. He said hed used a 
cash machine which hadnt dispensed his money. He provided a photo of a receipt, timed at 
13:36 that day, which said You have exceeded your daily withdrawal limit. You have not 
been charged for this transaction.
Monzos disputes team looked at the evidence, but said that that receipt matched a later 
withdrawal attempt. In chat, it asked if hed made two different attempts to withdraw cash. Mr 
S replied My friend had made the transfer [a £300 deposit at 11.09 on 30 May] as he could 
not withdraw funds himself. I immediately tried withdrawing after he made that transfer and 
was not able to with [sic] anything.
Monzo gave Mr S a temporary £250 credit and contacted the cash machine provider. But the 
machine owner produced evidence which Monzo said showed that £250 had been 
successfully withdrawn from Mr Ss account at 13.34. Thered been a second attempt at 
13.36, which had failed because of Mr Ss daily withdrawal limit, as the receipt said. So 
Monzo rejected Mr Ss disputed transaction claim and said it would re-debit the temporary 
£250 credit in two weeks time.
In chat with Monzo on 21 July, Mr S said the cash didnt come out, and that it was an 
absolute disgrace and hed be closing his account. He asked why it had shown as a failed 
transaction, and pointed out that hed even sent Monzo a photo of the receipt which had 
shown that the transaction had failed. Mr S then wrote  Ive just checked with my mate who 
transferred the money, he was the one who tried withdrawal and he confirms categorically 
that he actually only tried once. 
Monzo didnt change its mind, and in its final response letter on 5 August, it said that it had 
raised a chargeback for Mr S, and the card company had ruled in favour of the cash 
machine provider. It pointed out that the receipt Mr S had provided had a different time 
stamp to the payment which had debited Mr Ss account. It also said that as it had now taken 
back the temporary credit, this had resulted in an unarranged overdraft, and asked Mr S to 
get in touch if he was worried about repaying this.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He told the investigator hed never disputed 
trying twice to get the money out. He said one withdrawal appeared on his internet banking 
as a failed transaction but had then disappeared off his internet banking, and the other had 
appeared as a debit saying the money had come out. He said the money had never come 
out, and Monzo had never answered his question asking for CCTV to prove the money 
hadnt come out.
The investigator asked Monzo for more information. These included, among other requests, 
information about:
- any reported issues with the machine around the time of the disputed transaction;
- a copy of the journal roll including transactions around the time of the withdrawal; 
- whether there had been any evidence of a third party device fitted to the machine;
- evidence to show whether any money had been found in the purge bin (where 
returned notes go);
- the end of day balance for the machine on the day of the disputed transaction;
- whether or not there had been any CCTV in the area, and if so, whether Monzo had 
requested this. 
But Monzo said the investigator would have to ask the machine provider. The investigator 
reminded Monzo of the Regulations about disputed transactions, but Monzo said the 
investigators queries were outside its chargeback processes. 
So the investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. She said Monzos notes appeared to show it 
was confused and struggling to interpret the journal roll correctly, or to be categorically sure 
that the cash had been dispensed. She said it was likely that if the cash hadnt dispensed 
first time, Mr S would have tried again. She thought that if the machine had dispensed the 
£250 first time, Mr S wouldnt have tried again just two minutes later. And Mr S had asked for 
any CCTV  which would have been a risk if that might have shown the money had indeed 
been dispensed. She said Monzo should pay Mr S £250 for the disputed transaction, with 
interest at 8% plus £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Monzo didnt agree. It said there was nothing wrong with the evidence it had provided, 
because it showed the full amount dispensed with no errors. It said that was all the card 
provider specifically required for a chargeback. Monzo also didnt agree with the 
investigators arguments that Mr S would have tried again if the machine hadnt dispensed 
first time, and that it would have been risky for him to have asked for CCTV if hed been 
dishonest. It said these were a best guess and werent relevant to whether or not it had 
handled the complaint correctly in line with the card providers very specific rules. Monzo 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations 
There are regulations governing disputed transactions. For Mr Ss complaint, these are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Monzo) must first show the transaction was authenticated. Theres a second stage if 
authentication is satisfied, which considers whether or not the customer authorised the 
transaction. But authentication must be satisfied first. The relevant section of the Regulations 
is section 75, which says:
Evidence on authentication and execution of payment transactions
75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by 
the payment service provider.What the Regulations mean for Mr Ss complaint
Monzo has argued that it carried out a chargeback, and that this was optional, and that its 
obligations were confined to what that card scheme rules say. A chargeback is a process by 
which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants under the 
relevant card scheme. Theyre resolved on the basis of the card schemes rules, not 
necessarily the relative merits of the dispute.
But what governs disputed transactions is, as Ive set out above, the Payment Services 
Regulations, not chargeback scheme rules. And the Payment Services Regulations clearly 
set out that its for the payment service provider  here, Monzo  to prove that the payment 
transaction was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service 
providers accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in 
the service provided by the payment service provider. 
While I appreciate that a payment service provider can do a chargeback as one way of 
dealing with a dispute of this nature, that wont always give enough information to satisfy the 
requirements of the Payment Services Regulations. In terms of our investigation, its for 
Monzo to provide more information here to prove that the transaction was correctly carried 
out. For example, Monzo hasnt shown that the machine wasnt affected by technical issues 
or deficiencies. So I find that Monzo hasnt satisfied its obligations under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. 
This is a key factor in determining whether Mr Ss complaint succeeds. But Ive also looked 
at other factors. 
Mr S initially told Monzo, and told this service, that he had attempted the withdrawals on his 
account. But I saw that, in the chat between Monzo and Mr S on 21 July, Mr S had said that 
it had been a friend who had carried out the attempted withdrawals on Mr Ss account  not 
Mr S himself. Ive quoted this above. So I asked Mr S for clarification of this, pointing out that 
it was inconsistent with his previous testimony to Monzo and to our investigator. I asked 
what had happened on 30 May, as it now appeared that Mr S hadnt been at the cash 
machine when the disputed transaction had been made. I asked who had been there, and if 
it wasnt Mr S, what was his friends recollection.
Mr S replied that his friend had transferred £300 to his account as he didnt have a card to 
make withdrawals. Mr S then said we were both present at the ATM and two attempts were 
made to withdraw the funds.  He continued If I remember rightly, I had gone inside the 
petrol station to pay for fuel, I gave him my card to make the withdrawal as I queued, 
however I was back out and with him whilst both attempts to withdraw the money were 
made.
So at first, Mr S told Monzo hed attempted the withdrawals on 30 May. He then said in the 
chat on 21 July that theyd been attempted by his friend and he confirms categorically that 
he actually only tried once. When he referred his complaint to this service, he told our 
investigator that hed attempted them  with no mention of a third party. And when 
challenged about the chat evidence, he provided a different version, saying theyd both been 
present. This conflicts with saying hed asked his friend who had said categorically that hed 
only tried once  because if Mr S had been present as he says, he wouldnt have needed to 
ask his friend. And theres conflicting evidence about whether Mr S and his friend say the 
withdrawal(s) were attempted once or twice. And Mr S also said hed gone into the petrol 
station to pay for fuel but had left his card  which hed presumably have needed to pay for 
petrol  with his friend for him to make withdrawals.These variations cast some doubt on Mr Ss account of what happened. But ultimately, they 
dont make me think that itd be fair and reasonable for Monzo to hold him liable for the 
transaction here. Mr S is suggesting that his friend was making the transaction with his 
authority. So in considering the regulations, the circumstances here arent much different to 
Mr C making the transaction himself.
Mr S then disputed that the money was dispensed and the relevant regulations are clear 
about what Monzo needs to evidence to be able to hold Mr S liable for the transaction. It 
hasnt done that, and so I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I also award £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered as a result of Monzos failures.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Monzo Bank Limited to pay Mr S:
- £250 to refund the disputed cash machine withdrawal; and 
- Interest on £250 at 8% from 30 May 2021 to the date of payment; and 
- £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman