DRN-4376743
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) held him at fault following a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with its delays in dealing with the claim.
 
What happened
Mr B collided with another car whilst he was completing a three point turn. Mr B said the 
other car had inadequate lighting and so he didnt see it until too late. He provided dashcam 
footage of the incident. UKI held Mr B at fault before reviewing the footage, but it didnt 
change its decision after viewing it. Mr B was unhappy with this and that UKI hadnt 
responded to his concern that the other car had inadequate lighting. UKI paid Mr B £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its delays in the claim. But Mr B remained 
unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had reasonably considered the evidence available before making its decision on liability, as 
it was entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. And it decided that it would be 
unable to fully defend Mr B if the matter went to court. She thought it wasnt UKIs role to 
establish that the other drivers lighting complied with the relevant regulations. She thought 
UKIs payment of compensation was fair and reasonable for the level of trouble and upset 
caused by its delays in making repairs. 
Mr B replied that he thought UKI hadnt considered that if the other driver had adequate 
lighting then Mr B would have seen that the road wasnt clear, and the collision would have 
been avoided. Mr B asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated by UKIs decision to hold him at fault for the 
accident as he thinks the other driver contributed to it. Our approach in cases like this is to 
consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably.
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. 
Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And 
has it treated Mr B the same as someone else in his position. 
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr B to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr B has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. And so I wouldnt expect it to be highlighted in the 
policy documents, but it is set out on page 33 of the policy booklet. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before reaching a decision on liability. 
The evidence that UKI had to consider was the accident circumstances, Mr Bs version of 
events, and the dashcam footage and photographs he provided, albeit it only reviewed this 
at a later stage. I cant see that there was any other evidence for UKI to consider.
UKI said the onus was on Mr B as the reversing party to make sure the way was clear. It 
said the dashcam footage showed that the way wasnt clear for Mr B to reverse onto it and 
that the other driver had some form of lighting on. 
Mr B thought UKI should consider the relevant regulations about car lighting. He said the 
other drivers lighting was inadequate for the time of day. But UKI cant decide if the other 
driver breached regulations. I can see that UKI decided, based on Mr Bs footage, that the 
other car had some lights on, but it didnt say whether or not they were adequate. And it 
thought Mr B wouldnt have been able to stop in time and so prevent a collision in any event. 
So it still thought that Mr B was fully at fault as he was the reversing party and had the 
responsibility to make sure the way was clear, which it evidently wasnt.
So Im satisfied that UKI considered the available evidence and made its decision on liability 
fairly and reasonably as it was entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. 
UKI agreed that its level of service had been poor. There were avoidable delays in the claim 
and Mr B had to chase for repairs to be completed. UKI paid him £250 compensation for this 
trouble and upset. I think that was fair and reasonable compensation for the impact of the 
errors. And its in keeping with our published guidance. So Im satisfied that this was fair and 
reasonable. I dont require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman