DRN-3843347
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out travel insurance, with Great Lakes, to cover a trip he was taking abroad, 
between 5 June 2021 and 20 June 2021. The policy provided cover for various risks during 
this time.
Mr W went on holiday as planned. But hes explained that during the final part of his trip, his 
luggage was stolen. At the time, Mr W was travelling from one part of the country, to 
another. He was going by ferry  with the ferry stopping at a few other destinations on the 
way  before arriving at his point of departure.
Mr W has explained that he had large luggage (a suitcase), and so was told by the ferry staff 
to use the back entrance of the vessel. At this entry point the ferry staff were taking 
everyones luggage from them and storing it in a designated luggage area. Rather than the 
large luggage going with the passengers to their seats. The luggage was stored in this area, 
seemingly according to where the passengers would be disembarking. And then was 
covered with a tarpaulin for the journey. During the journey all passengers were given a 
designated seat and had to stay there until arriving at their destination.
When getting off the ferry, Mr W went to collect his luggage. But it wasnt there. Mr W raised 
this with the ferry staff but had no success in retrieving his luggage. So, he went to the ferry 
companies office, after getting off the boat. Who said the ferry staff would check the boat. 
This wasnt successful in locating the luggage either. And continued contact with the ferry 
company, with and without the support of their hotel staff, did not locate the suitcase. So, 
Mr W said he was without his items on his final few days of holiday.
As the suitcase wasnt located, Mr W made a claim for his loss under his travel insurance 
policy. Great Lakes considered the claim  and declined it.
Great Lakes said money Mr W had in his suitcase wasnt covered under the policy  which 
Mr W agreed with. But Great Lakes also said that Mr Ws policy didnt provide cover for lost 
luggage at all, where it was left unattended in a public place, or location that the public has 
access to at any time. It said when Mr W left his suitcase in the luggage area, it was 
unattended. And so, the claim would not be settled, for any of his luggage.
Great Lakes also said Mr W had prejudiced its position in terms of recovering its loss if it 
were to settle Mr Ws claim. It said Mr W had released the ferry company from any liability, 
when discussing the loss with it. So, it wouldnt be able to recovery anything from the ferry 
company.
Mr W considered this to be unfair. He noted there was nothing he could have done 
differently in the situation. He had to hand his luggage over when entering the ferry. And, 
amongst other points, he noted that he didnt consider the luggage area to be public, or 
somewhere the public had access to at any time  given it was only possible to obtain 
luggage from there on embarking and disembarking the vessel.
Great Lakes maintained its position on the matter, so Mr W referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review. He explained he was dissatisfied with the outcome of his 
claim, and how the matter had been handled by Great Lakes.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator agreed that the luggage was left unattended, as per the definitions contained 
within the policy. And they agreed that the policy didnt provide cover when the luggage was 
unattended. The investigator also agreed that Mr W had released the ferry company from 
any liability in communication with it  meaning the insurers position to recover the loss from 
the ferry company was prejudiced. So, they didnt think Great Lakes had acted unfairly in 
noting this either.
Lastly, our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted fairly in how it handled the claim. 
They felt they had handled it promptly and fairly. So, they didnt recommend anything in 
respect of this element of the complaint either.
Mr W disagreed, for the same reasons he had disagreed with Great Lakes claims decision. 
He reiterated the point he had raised previously and noted that he hadnt spoken to the ferry 
company himself and released it from any liabilities. Mr W said his partner had done that  
but only in relation to her luggage, which was also stolen, and whose subsequent claim was 
settled by her own travel insurer. 
Because Mr W disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Great 
Lakes acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mr Ws claim. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ws policy documentation, to see what cover this provided to him. On doing 
so, I can see that his policy does provide cover for personal baggage, if it is damage, stolen, 
destroyed or lost (and not recovered) during the course of a trip). Which is what happened to 
Mr Ws luggage.
As is common with insurance policies of this nature, this policy does provide some limitations 
to cover. The policy does explain that personal baggage must not be left unsecured, 
unattended or beyond your reach at any time in a place to which the public have access. 
The word unattended is defined in the policy as:
When you cannot see and/or are not close enough to your property, or vehicle, to prevent 
unauthorised interference with, or theft of, your property of vehicle.
Based on this definition, its clear that Mr Ws luggage was left unattended. He couldnt see 
the item and wasnt close enough to prevent unauthorised interference with it. And I do think 
its reasonable to consider the luggage storage area as a place where the public had access. Because when embarking and disembarking the passengers on the boat, and the crew, had 
access to the cases. 
Given the above, I appreciate that if applying the policy terms strictly, Mr Ws claim isnt 
covered by the policy. 
But my role is also to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint. And, in this instance, I dont think its fair to apply the terms and conditions of the 
policy strictly. I say this because I dont think Mr W left his luggage unattended in a way that 
would mean its fair and reasonable to apply the term. 
Mr W had no choice but to leave his item at the designated luggage area. When getting on 
the ferry, he had to hand over his luggage to the crew  and take the seat he was assigned. 
It is often the case that when travelling, that luggage must be placed in a designated area. 
Making it unavoidable to do this if you wish to travel as planned. So, I dont think Mr W did 
anything out of the ordinary here  or that he wasnt complying with the spirit of the term 
around unattended items. He was taking steps to place the item in safety  as instructed by 
those in charge of the vessel, and in charge of the health and safety of the environment. So, 
to apply the term strictly, in this instance, seems unfair  and an overly strict interpretation. 
Given the above, I dont consider Great Lakes to have acted fairly in applying the term 
strictly. And, require it to deal with Mr Ws claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Great Lakes has also said that Mr W has prejudiced its position to make any recovery from 
the ferry company. So, Ive thought about this. And I dont consider Great Lakes has acted 
fairly here either. It was Mr Ws partner, not Mr W, who said they wouldnt pursue the ferry 
company any further. And looking at the email correspondence, they were left in an 
impossible position. They needed evidence to claim under their insurance policies from the 
ferry company. And could only get this by confirming with the ferry company they would be 
pursuing it directly no longer. In any event, Great Lakes still can take over a claim and seek 
to recover, should it wish to do so. 
Mr W has said the claims process took too long, and the service he received was poor. So, 
Ive looked into this too. Overall, it took just over six weeks, for Mr W to be given an outcome 
to his claim  with this initially being given on 2 August 2021. Great Lakes was entitled to 
take steps to validate Mr Ws claim before giving an outcome  such as conducting an 
interview with Mr W  which it did during this time. So, I dont think there was an 
unreasonable delay here. And, following Mr W raising concerns with the outcome of the 
claim, Great Lakes investigated this further  and provided a full response on 19 August 
2021. Which I dont think is unreasonable either.
Mr W has noted he had to chase Great Lakes for responses to emails, when he contacted 
them. But looking at the time period between emails  which on occasions included 
weekends  I dont think Great Lakes took an unreasonable period of time to respond. There 
was an occasion when Great Lakes appears to have responded outside of its service level 
agreement of three to five days. But I dont think this alone means Great Lakes needs to do 
anything further in relation to this complaint. Overall, Im satisfied with the progression of the 
claim. 
I appreciate Great Lakes did ultimately come to an outcome on the claim, that I dont 
consider fair. But Im intending on requiring Great Lakes to deal with the claim, in line with 
the remaining policy term, to resolve this. And Im satisfied thats fair in this situation.Mr W responded and agreed with my provisional decision, on the issues discussed within 
the provisional decision. Great Lakes didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to deal with Mr Ws claim, under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman