DRN-4396559
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In July 2022, Mr P met a woman on a dating site who Ill refer to as the scammer. They 
began to communicate on WhatsApp and the scammer told Mr P where she was from and 
that she ran a restaurant. She said she was 40 years old, divorced with no children, and 
looking to build a relationship. 
The scammer told Mr P she invested in cryptocurrency and recommended an investment 
company Ill refer to as L. Mr P had previously invested a small amount in cryptocurrency 
and the scammer told him the returns were higher than those offered by the bank.
The scammer sent screenshots showing profits from her investments and Mr P checked Ls 
website, which looked very professional. He was required to send a copy of his passport to 
open an account, which he linked with an account he already had with a cryptocurrency 
exchange company Ill refer to as C.
He was told to first purchase cryptocurrency through C and then load the cryptocurrency 
onto an online wallet. On 5 November 2022 made a payment of £5,500 to C using a debit 
card connected to his Monzo account. He was later told about an opportunity to make more 
money and that hed need to have £30,000 in his account to make a withdrawal. But when 
the pressure to invest increased, he did some online research and realised hed been 
scammed. 
Mr P complained to this service with the assistance of a representative who explained he 
hadnt used his Monzo account to buy cryptocurrency before. They said the payment should 
have seemed unusual as the account had been dormant for over a year and hed moved 
funds from another account in his own name before sending them straight out to a 
cryptocurrency merchant, which was known scam behaviour.
The representative said Monzo should have contacted Mr P and asked him why he was 
making the payment and what he planned to do with the funds after transferring them to C. It 
should have also asked him for the name of the investment company and told him to check 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register. And as most scams involve transfers to 
cryptocurrency exchanges and Mr P was being advised to invest by someone hed met 
online, it would have had enough information to identify this was a scam.
Monzo said C had provided the service it was required to provide, so there were no grounds 
to raise a chargeback request. And as the payment was to another account in Mr Ps name, 
so it wasnt the point of loss, and it wasnt covered under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) code because the code doesnt apply to card payments.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied there was no 
prospect of a successful chargeback request, but she thought Monzo should have 
intervened when Mr P made the payment and that its failure to do so represented a missed 
opportunity to prevent his loss.
She explained that in the 12 months before the transaction, there were no transactions for a 
similar amount, so she thought Monzo shouldve intervened and asked Mr P about the 
payment. And had it done so, she was satisfied hed have told it he was being advised by 
someone hed met online, which would have been enough for Monzo to have identified the 
investment was a scam.
Our investigator accepted Mr P had trusted the scammer, but there was no evidence hed 
done due diligence and she commented he shouldnt have taken investment advice from 
someone hed met online. So, she recommended Monzo should refund the money Mr P had 
lost with a reduction of 50% for contributory negligence.
Monzo has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has argued the 
dating site had negative reviews which suggested users could be approached by scammers. 
And Cs website featured information and warnings about a crypto mining pool scam. It has 
also said this was a second generational movement of funds and its only appropriate for 
banks to provide reimbursement where a customer has fallen victim to a scam under the 
CRM code, which isnt applicable because code doesnt apply to card payments
Finally, it has argued that even if it did intervene, theres no guarantee it would have 
prevented Mr Ps loss as he already knew about the risks of cryptocurrency and had used C 
before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
Monzo has said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt apply in this 
case because the code doesnt apply to card payments, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Ive thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover Mr Ps payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Monzo) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr P).
Mr Ps own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfer to C. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ps payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Monzos decision not to raise a 
chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Im satisfied Mr P authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was a scam. But, 
although Mr P didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payment was made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Monzo had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr P when he tried to 
make the payment.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Monzo to intervene with a view to protecting Mr P from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payment didnt flag as suspicious on Monzos systems. Ive considered the nature of the 
payment in the context of whether it was unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr P normally 
ran his account and I think it was. I accept C was a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
company, but this was a significantly large payment to a cryptocurrency merchant, which I 
think was unusual for the account. So, I think Monzo missed an opportunity to intervene.
Monzo should have contacted Mr P and asked him questions around the purpose of the 
payment including how he learned about the investment opportunity, whether there was a 
third party involved, whether hed been promised unrealistic returns and whether hed been 
advised to make an onward payment from C. And as theres no evidence Mr P was coached 
to lie to Monzo, Im satisfied hed have told it that hed been advised to invest in 
cryptocurrency by someone hed met on a dating site and that hed been told to make an 
onwards payment to a wallet address provided by L.
I would then expect Monzo to have discussed with Mr P the nature of the checks hed 
undertaken, to have warned him about the risks associated with the investment and to have 
told him there were red flags present, including the fact hed been told to make an onwards 
payment from C. 
There were no warnings about L on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites, and Monzo has 
said Mr P had invested before and that he knew about the risks. But I havent seen any evidence that he was keen to take risks and so I think that if hed had a clear warning from 
the bank that this was probably a scam, hed have decided not to go ahead with the 
payment. Because of this, I think that Monzo missed an opportunity to intervene in 
circumstances when to do so might have prevented Mr Ps loss. Consequently, Im minded 
to direct Monzo to refund the money he lost.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence and I dont think it was reasonable for Mr P to have taken 
investment advice from someone he met on a dating site. Monzo has said he should have 
researched the dating site because he would have found negative reviews, but I dont think 
its unreasonable that he didnt. 
However, while I accept this was a sophisticated scam, Mr P had invested before and would 
have known there were risks. So, in the circumstances, I think he should have done more 
checks before going ahead with the investment. Therefore, I think the settlement should be 
reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should: 
refund £5,500
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Monzo Bank Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr P with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman