DRN-4316637
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson Insurance 
declined their travel insurance curtailment claim. My references to Astrenska include its 
agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had annual multi-trip travel insurance starting on 28 August 2022 insured by 
Astrenska.
Mr and Mrs M went abroad on 29 August 2022 to stay with relatives for a family occasion 
and had planned to return on 15 September 2022. On 31 August 2022 one of the relatives 
they were staying with tested positive for Covid-19. Mrs M also fell ill and as she was on the 
NHS Covid-19 at risk list she and Mr M curtailed (cut short) the trip and returned home that 
night incurring additional flight costs. They claimed for those irrecoverable flight costs. 
Astrenska declined the claim saying that as its medical assistance helpline hadnt given prior 
approval for Mr and Mrs Ms early return there was no cover under the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs M complained that Astrenskas decision was unfair. In summary they said:
Mrs M felt unwell with similar symptoms to those when she previously had Covid-19. 
Shes on the Covid-19 at risk list due to having had cancer and shed been very 
unwell when she previously had Covid-19 which resulted in her spending several 
days in hospital.
Their focus was on Mrs Ms health and they thought they had no choice but to return 
home immediately, where she could get the anti-viral drugs and be cared for through 
the NHS. They didnt have time to call Astrenskas emergency helpline or Mrs Ms 
GP (it was late evening in the UK) as their priority was getting home. They tried to 
rearrange their scheduled flight but couldnt so they had to book with another airline.
Mrs M tested positive for Covid-19 on 1 September 2022, the day after they returned. 
She got the anti-viral drugs but on 18 September 2022, which is after the date they 
were due to return to the UK, she was still unwell and had developed a chest 
infection as a result of her Covid-19 infection which required further medication from 
the doctor.
Our investigator said Astrenska had unreasonably declined the claim as Mr and Mrs M had 
mitigated their costs by returning home. He recommended Astrenska pay the curtailment 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest.
Astrenska disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. It said:
The relative had Covid-19 not a serious illness so it wasnt necessary for Mr and 
Mrs M to curtail because of that illness. They could have found alternative 
accommodation and obtained the relevant anti-viral drugs for Mrs M which would 
have been considerably cheaper than the £3,000 flight costs they paid.
It wasnt medically necessary for Mrs M to return home early as she didnt have a 
serious illness.
There was no evidence that Mr and Mrs M mitigated costs by returning home early.
Before I made my decision we sent Astrenska the information Mr and Mrs M had provided 
about the cost in the relevant country for the treatment Mrs M had in the UK and the 
examples of costs of alternative accommodation near to the relatives for the ten days, and 
asked for its comments.
Astrenska said Mr and Mrs M had provided a list of accommodation chosen pricewise to 
support their decision to return home early. It said it could find a lot cheaper alternative 
accommodation, as Mr and Mrs M should have done if they were acting as uninsured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I uphold the complaint as I think Astrenska unreasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The Cutting Short Your Trip section of the policy says if Mr and Mrs M, their immediate 
relative or a person theyre planning to stay with has a serious illness Astrenska will cover 
additional travel costs for them to return home early as follows:
2. Additional Costs to Return Home Early
 We will pay necessary additional costs over and above the cost of your original 
return ticket, of the same class you were due to travel home on. There is no cover if 
you had not purchased a return fare at the time you cut short your trip, or if your 
travel provider transfers your original return ticket to a different flight.
The same policy section contains the exclusion Astrenska relied on to decline the claim:
There is no cover for
Early return home claims when we did not authorise the travel arrangements.
Mr and Mrs M didnt get Astrenskas prior approval to return home early so under the strict 
interpretation of the policy wording the claim isnt covered.
However, I also have to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Astrenska says the relative Mr and Mrs M were staying with didnt have a serious illness. Ive 
seen no medical evidence about how the relative was affected by Covid-19. And the policy 
doesnt define serious illness. But even if the relative wasnt seriously affected by having 
Covid-19 it was a serious illness for Mrs M. The at risk letter from the NHS to Mrs M says 
shes at risk of severe illness if she got Covid-19 and should strictly avoid anyone with 
symptoms of Covid-19. As Mr and Mrs M were staying in the house of the relative with 
Covid-19 I think its unlikely that Mrs M would have been able to avoid the person.
Although Mrs M didnt test positive for Covid-19 on the day she took the early flight home 
she was feeling unwell with symptoms she had when she previously had Covid-19. She  
tested positive the next day. So its more likely than not that Mrs M had Covid-19 when she returned home early, which I think was a serious illness for her given she was on the at risk 
list. 
Astrenskas response to our investigators view suggested that rather than Mr and Mrs M 
incurring the additional costs of returning home it would have been reasonable and cheaper 
for them to have got alternative accommodation and the relevant anti-viral drugs Mrs M 
needed. Astrenska hasnt disputed that it would have paid for Mr and Mrs Ms 
accommodation costs and medical costs in those circumstances. And in addition to those 
costs Mrs M remained unwell with or due to Covid-19 until at least 18 September, which is 
after Mr and Mrs M had been due to return home. So they may have had to rearrange their 
original flight home because of an extended trip which could have incurred further costs. 
I think Mr and Mrs Ms early return home did mitigate Astrenskas losses. Mr and Mrs M 
provided evidence that the cost in the relevant country for the treatment Mrs M had in the UK 
would have been about £450 and the average cost of alternative accommodation local to 
their relatives for the relevant 10 days would have been about £2,760, which totals £3,210. 
Astrenska said it could have found much cheaper accommodation. But it didnt provide any 
evidence of cheaper accommodation for me to consider and I think the accommodation 
examples Mr and Mrs M gave didnt exceed what was reasonably appropriate. 
 
Im satisfied that the £3,027 cost for the additional flight for Mr and Mrs M returning home 
early was less than the costs Astrenska would have had to pay if they had remained abroad. 
So Mr and Mrs M mitigated their losses by returning home early and in those circumstances 
I dont think its fair for Astrenska to apply the exclusion it relied on to decline the claim.
I note Astrenska said Mrs Ms GP said it wasnt medically necessary for her to return home 
early. Ive seen no evidence the GP said it wasnt medically necessary. Mrs Ms GP said he 
wasnt contacted before Mr and Mrs M returned home so he didnt make a recommendation, 
which is very different to the GP saying the early return wasnt medically necessary. 
Overall in these circumstances I think its fair and reasonable for Astrenska to pay the claim 
as Ive detailed below.
Putting things right
Astrenska must pay Mr and Mrs Ms curtailment claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and limits, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson Insurance to pay Mr and Mrs Ms 
curtailment claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest* of 8% 
simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Astrenska Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman