DRN-3343770
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly refused to 
upgrade a voucher hed been awarded on his credit card.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with AESEL. The card entitled him to receive vouchers known as 
Companion Vouchers depending on the level of spending on his card.
In June 2021 AESEL wrote to him to inform him that it was changing the criteria for awarding 
the Companion Vouchers. After 1 September 2021 a Companion Voucher would be 
awarded after a total spend of £12,000 in a twelve month period. It was previously awarded 
after a total spend of £20,000 using the card in a twelve month period. The change also 
meant that the Companion Voucher would in future only be available for travel using 
economy class  previous vouchers had not been limited in this way and could be used in 
any cabin class.
Mr M says after receiving the notice about the change he realised he was approaching the 
£12,000 spend on his card. He says he contacted AESEL, using the chat function on its 
website, and asked it about upgrading his card. It told him he needed to phone to upgrade 
his card. 
Mr M says he wanted to upgrade his card because the upgraded credit card wouldve 
entitled him to a Companion Voucher after £10,000 spend and the voucher could be used in 
any cabin class. He says he knew thered be additional fees for the upgraded card but he 
was willing to pay these. He says he tried to contact AESEL by telephone on multiple 
occasions and spent many hours on hold. But, he says he wasnt able to get through to 
AESEL to request the upgrade.
On 2 September 2021 AESEL issued Mr M with a Companion Voucher, based on the 
change to the terms and changes which had taken effect. He contacted AESEL and asked it 
to upgrade the voucher but it refused. He complained to AESEL. He said it was unfair that 
he should be disadvantaged when hed tried on numerous occasions to contact AESEL to 
upgrade his card and it hadnt answered his calls.
AESEL investigated his complaint. It said it hadnt made any error when it said it couldnt 
upgrade the Companion Voucher it had issued. It subsequently told Mr M that although its 
call volumes might be higher than expected at times, its call centre was open 24 hours each 
day and seven days each week. It didnt agree that it had acted unfairly. Mr M disagreed. He 
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that AESEL had given Mr M notice of the 
proposed changes to the Companion Voucher award scheme. And although hed attempted 
to speak to AESEL, he hadnt spoken to it. The Companion Voucher had been issued in 
accordance with the terms and conditions for his card and he didnt think AESEL had been 
at fault.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that the chat with AESEL on 6 August 2021 was evidence of his 
clear intent to upgrade his card. Hed tried to contact AESEL on numerous occasions but it 
hadnt answered his calls. 
Our investigator asked AESEL to comment on what Mr M told us about the attempted calls. 
AESEL said it had no contact notes or records of calls made by Mr M. It said its system 
didnt have details of calls which had been waiting on its system.
Our investigator thought about what AESEL and Mr M had told us. But, he didnt change his 
view. 
Because Mr M disagreed with what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why:
Was it fair and reasonable to require Mr M to telephone AESEL to upgrade his card?
Ive looked at the differences in the terms and conditions for the card which Mr M held at the 
time and those which applied to the upgraded card. Mr M has told us about the differences 
to the Companion Voucher and I can see why he would have found those differences 
attractive. But there were other differences  including differences to the fees and annual 
percentage rate which applied. The upgraded card was known as the Premium Plus Card 
and it required the cardholder to pay an annual fee of £195, increasing to £250 from 1 
September 2021. The representative APR on the Premium Plus card was also significantly 
higher than that which applied to the card held by Mr M. 
Given the differences which applied, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AESEL to 
require its customers to contact it by telephone before upgrading the card. This wouldve 
given AESEL the opportunity to explain all of the differences which applied and Mr M 
wouldve been able to make a fully informed decision before proceeding.
The long waiting times
Mr M has told us about the experience he had when he tried to phone AESEL to upgrade his 
card. He says he first contacted AESEL on 6 August 2021 using the chat function on its 
website. This confirmed to him that if he upgraded his card, his spend to date would count 
towards any entitlement to a Companion Voucher. It was after this date that he says he tried 
to phone AESEL on multiple occasions. Hes told us that he was kept on hold for hours and 
was unable to get through to request the upgrade.
AESEL says that its systems dont record details of the contact number of callers whose 
calls are abandoned. 
Having considered what Mr M has told us, Ive no reason to doubt that he did try to contact 
AESEL by telephone, on several occasions in August, and that he wasnt able to get 
through. It is the case that call waiting times can be lengthy on occasions and there may be 
reasons for that which are outside the control of the business. I can understand why that can 
be very frustrating. But, it is the case here that Mr M was told about the changes to his terms 
and conditions on 4 June 2021. Those changes took effect on 1 September. So, he had almost three months to try to contact AESEL. And, AESEL has confirmed that its telephone 
lines are open 24 hours a day, seven days each week. Ive also noted that when he was 
issued with a Companion Voucher on his credit card at the start of September, he was able 
to get through to AESEL. He hasnt indicated that he had any difficulty getting through on 
that date.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded, on balance, that the telephone waiting 
times, during the period from June to September, were such that Mr M was unable to get 
through to request the upgrade to his card.
 
The chat
Mr M says he made a clear statement of intent to upgrade his card during the chat on 6 
August 2021. He says that because of this, it would be fair and reasonable to expect AESEL 
to upgrade his card and the Companion Voucher hes been issued.
Ive looked carefully at the content of the chat. Mr M provided us with a copy of what was 
said:
Mr M - Please can you advise if I am able to update my [credit] card and if my spend 
to-date will qualify towards a companion voucher?
AESEL You just have to call our team [on our team (sic)] on the number which is 
on the back of your card and they will help you with the details to upgrade your card.
The spending will be calculated for the voucher even if the card gets upgraded.
Having considered the request on the chat, Im not persuaded, on balance, that the question 
Mr M raised was a statement of intent that he wanted to upgrade his card. Instead I think he 
was raising a query about whether he could upgrade his card, and whether, if he did do that, 
his spend to date would be carried forward for the purposes of qualifying for a Companion 
Voucher. He didnt indicate that he intended to upgrade his card or had made a decision to 
do that  he was merely seeking additional information to help him make a decision about 
whether he should proceed to upgrade his card. 
Having considered everything here, I dont think its fair or reasonable to require AESEL to 
upgrade the Companion Voucher it issued to Mr M. If Mr M still wants to upgrade his credit 
card, he will need to contact AESEL to progress that. Im satisfied, on balance, AESEL has 
acted fairly and reasonably and I dont require it to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman