DRN-2265811
The complaint
Miss C says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1992 Miss C took out a Halifax mortgage along with PPI to protect her mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Miss C disagrees. She 
mainly says she was led to believe that taking out the policy was a pre-condition of the 
mortgage and it wasnt ever made clear that PPI was optional. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. But 
that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Miss C told us she was sold the 
PPI during a meeting so I think its likely thats what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Miss C has told us about the way she says Halifax sold 
her the PPI. But what Miss C says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss C to recall exactly what was discussed 
at the time. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Miss Cs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. She 
alone was responsible for making the mortgage monthly repayments. And looking at what 
shes told us about her financial situation at the time, I think she mightve found PPI useful. 
So, I can see why Miss C mightve wanted to take out PPI when it was offered to her.
I can completely understand why she mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. 
On balance, I think its likely that Miss C decided she wanted to have the benefits and 
security that PPI offered and she chose to buy the policy. 
As Miss C says she took out the policy during a meeting, Halifax looked at her complaint on 
the basis that it wouldve advised her to take out PPI. Given the lack of paperwork showing 
how Halifax sold Miss C the PPI, I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it 
imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, 
it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Looking at the likely policy terms I can see that Miss C was eligible for the PPI. The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to at least 12 months per claim in the event of an accident or illness 
that prevented Miss C from working  and possibly for as long as 24 months. 
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Miss C lost her job 
and became unexpectedly unemployed. 
And Miss C couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving her long term protection for 
her mortgage.
Miss Cs employer didnt pay her any sick pay and it doesnt appear that she had any 
significant other means to rely on if she wasnt working. Relying on other people to help out 
in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. And having a few months worth of savings didnt 
give Miss C the long term protection for her mortgage that having PPI did. 
Miss C told us she had substantial equity in her home well in excess of the loan. But I dont 
think this would make a recommendation to take PPI unsuitable. Selling a property can be a 
lengthy process and its unlikely this would help Miss C meet her mortgage repayments if 
she wasnt able to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
The policy would also mean that Miss C wouldnt have to sell the property if this happened  
or face the possibility of a forced sale at possible undervalue. 
So I think the policy couldve provided Miss C with a useful benefit at a difficult time. And, 
looking at Miss Cs circumstances, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Miss C about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
But it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Miss Cs decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Miss C when she bought the policy. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that she couldnt afford the monthly premiums at the time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered her, I think it unlikely Miss C wouldve made 
a different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided - 
I think its likely shed still have taken it out. 
So, on balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold. And Halifax  doesnt have to repay 
everything Miss C paid for it.But Halifax will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Miss C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
What Halifax needs to do
Halifax will pay back to Miss C any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should also pay back to Miss C any extra 
interest she paid because of that. 
Halifax should pay back to Miss C the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax 
should also pay Miss C 8%* simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss C can claim back the 
tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax does not have 
to pay to Miss C all of the cost of the PPI that she paid.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax does have to pay to Miss C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium (and if it has done this already 
then Halifax needs do nothing more).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman