DRN-3616105
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA declined disputes she raised with it, 
under its Buyer Protection Program. 
What happened
Ms H has explained that she purchased some items on a website, with these items due to be 
delivered to her home address. Ms H said the courier company responsible for delivering the 
items noted they had been delivered  and left by the bin at the property. But Ms H has said 
she never received these items.
Because Ms H didnt receive these items, she raised disputes under PayPals buyer 
protection program  noting that two parcels werent received, despite her being told they 
had been delivered.
PayPal looked into the disputes Ms H raised and found in the sellers favour on both of them. 
PayPal said that the seller had provided tracking information to it, showing the items had 
been sent, and delivered. So, PayPal didnt provide Ms H with a refund for the items shed 
explained she didnt receive.
As Ms H was unhappy with this, she raised a complaint with PayPal. But it maintained its 
position that finding in favour of the seller was correct. Because Ms H remained dissatisfied 
with this, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said she didnt dispute Ms Hs explanation that the items had been left by the bin 
at her property and hadnt actually reached her. But, our investigator said the terms of the 
PayPal buyer protection noted that disputes raised for items not received didnt qualify for a 
refund where the seller provided PayPal with proof of delivery   even if it is claimed that the 
good werent actually received. And in this case, PayPal had been provided with tracking 
numbers for both disputes, showing the items were delivered. Our investigator said that as 
PayPal acted in line with the terms of the buyer protection program, she wouldnt be asking 
PayPal to do anything differently.
Ms H didnt feel this was fair. She highlighted the evidence shed provided to show the 
courier leaving a delivery by the bin at her property. Ms H said the courier shouldnt have left 
any delivery there, as it wasnt safe to do so. Ms H said she had also previously spoken to 
the police about this issue, who said that a courier should not leave parcels on a doorstep or 
outside of homes. And that doorstop thefts had gone up dramatically since the coronavirus 
pandemic.
Because Ms H didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ive explained why 
below. 
When considering a complaint such as this, the starting point is the terms of the user 
agreement between PayPal and Ms H. This being because it is the basis of the contract 
between the two parties. On looking at the user agreement I can see that PayPal offer a 
program called Buyer Protection Program.
The terms and conditions of the Buyer Protection Program are included in this agreement, 
and say that if a buyer purchases something from a seller who accepts PayPal, the buyer 
may be eligible for a reimbursement of the full purchase price of an item under the PayPals 
Buyer Protection Program.
The terms and conditions of this program go on to say that the program may apply where the 
buyer hasnt received an item from the seller. 
But, for items not received claims, a buyer wont qualify for a refund, if the seller has 
provided proof of delivery to PayPal. The definition of proof of delivery in the program 
includes PayPal being provided with online or physical documentation from a shipping 
company which includes an online, verifiable tracking number, date of delivery and shows a 
delivered status. As well as an address that matches the shipping address on the 
transaction details details, and a postcode for the recipient. 
Ms H raised two disputes under the buyer protection program for items not received. So, Ive 
needed to see whether PayPal acted in line with the above terms of the program, when 
considering the disputes. And, having considered the information provided to me, Im 
satisfied PayPal did act in line with these, for both disputes.
On each dispute PayPal was provided with proof of delivery information by the seller. The 
seller provided tracking numbers for both parcels, as well as the date of delivery  and 
evidence of these showing as having a delivered status. And, the seller provided evidence 
that the parcels were delivered to the correct address (including postcode) for Ms H. Ive 
seen this information. 
In terms of the tracking numbers, these were online and verifiable on the couriers website. I 
input this into the couriers website. And these did provide information noting the parcels 
were delivered and gave the corresponding date of delivery. 
In terms of the address the items were sent to, PayPal has provided details of the address 
shown in the transaction details section. And Im satisfied this matches Ms Hs address, 
where the items were to be shipped to. Ms H has also provided this service with evidence of 
a delivery card left at her property, noting a parcel was left by the bin at the address. Given 
this information, Im satisfied that the seller provided PayPal with proof of delivery, as per the 
terms and conditions. And so, this means that Ms Hs disputes arent eligible for a refund.
As Ms Hs disputes werent eligible for a refund, as per the policy terms, I dont think PayPal 
acted unfairly in finding in the sellers favour, and not offering Ms H a refund for the 
transactions. So, I dont require it to do anything differently here.
Ms H has highlighted how unfair she considers this to be  given that the items were left 
outside of her property by the courier  where it was not safe. And I do appreciate her point 
here. But, the terms and conditions of the program are clear that it doesnt offer a refund in 
these circumstances. And I dont hold PayPal accountable for the actions of the courier  
they arent its responsibility. So, this point doesnt change the outcome of this complaint. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman