DRN-3312866
The complaint
Mr F complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Toyota is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
With 24 hours of taking delivery of the car Mr F encountered issues with the media unit 
which these days is an essential part of a car. The screen flickered and then switched off. He 
took the car back and the dealer says that it couldnt replicate the fault Mr F says that 
several employees saw the fault and recognised the unit as being faulty.
This was a new car and Mr F expected it to work properly and while I acknowledge, as has 
been pointed, that cars are complex pieces of machinery that doesnt mean one can accept 
faults. The car was relatively expensive and while even a basic model should not come with 
a fault a car such as this should be in perfect condition.
It seems the dealer decided to replace the unit and I understand this was not done with the 
agreement of Mr F. In any event Mr Fs partner identified the same fault a few days later and 
the car was returned. The dealer couldnt find a fault and I gather that by this point video 
evidence had been provided by Mr F. A written request to reject the car was made within 30 
days, but this was rejected.
Toyota became involved and an independent inspection was carried out. The inspector 
drove the car for 14 miles and couldnt replicate the fault and so it rejected the claim.
Our investigator was satisfied that there was an intermittent fault and having reviewed the 
evidence, especially the videos I find myself in agreement. While I can understand the 
dealers reluctance to allow rejection it is clear that there was an issue with the media 
system. The consumer is allowed to reject goods with the first 30 days if they are faulty. 
Intermittent faults can be problematic, but I am satisfied that there was a fault and so 
rejection is the best solution. I have noted Toyotas response to our investigators view and 
appreciate its view that as the dealer has not identified a fault there mustnt be one, but I 
cannot see why Mr F would wish to return the new car he had waited for immediately without 
good reason. I believe that it is sufficiently clear that the car was faulty at the point of sale 
and so rejection is appropriate.
Putting things right
Mr F should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay,
collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr F,
refund the Mr Fs deposit/part exchange contribution of £2,732.73 insofar as it was 
not used to clear existing finance,
pay a refund of 10% of the monthly payments from September 2020 to the date of 
settlement to cover any loss of use, or impaired use, of the car because of the 
inherent quality issues,
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement,
pay a further amount of £150 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods,
remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file in relation to the agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman