DRN-2775857
The complaint
Mrs K and Miss R complain that esure Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on a motor
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K shares a home address with her husband Mr K and her daughter Miss R. Miss R says
her mother has some health issues.
In January 2020, Mrs K had a car insured on a comprehensive policy. Miss R was a named
driver.
The insurance company that was responsible for dealing with claims was esure. Where I
refer to esure, I include other companies and individuals insofar as I hold esure responsible
for their actions.
Miss R reported to esure that, while the car was parked in January 2020, a lady driving past
scraped its left side and broke its wing mirror.
On 31 January 2020, esure (through its appointed vehicle marketing company) sent a driver
who collected the car and filled in a report sheet. On the same day, esure (through its
appointed hire company) delivered a courtesy car to Mrs K.
Mrs Ks car was beyond economic repair according to esure. Miss R says esure offered a
valuation of £2,300.00 for it. She didnt accept that.
At her request, esure (through the vehicle marketing company) returned the car to Mrs K on
the evening of 17 February 2020. Mrs K gave back the courtesy car and the hire company
invoiced Mrs K £69.96 for excess protection cover.
Miss R complained that esure had collected their car with minor damage but esure returned 
it with more damage. She also complained that some prescription glasses and sunglasses 
had gone missing from the car.
Miss R and Mrs K first contacted us on about 21 February 2020. They said esure should pay
for a repair at a repairer of their choice and pay compensation for being without a car and
compensation for the hurt esure had caused them.
By a final response dated 4 March 2020, esure turned down the complaint. But it said that 
as a gesture of goodwill in relation to the glasses - it was sending a cheque for £200.00 (the
limit of cover for personal belongings in the car).
Later in March 2020, esure said it had sent a cheque for £69.96 to reimburse the excess
protection.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that:
There was no evidence to suggest that the extra damage Mrs K had complained 
about was not present when the vehicle was picked up on 31 January 2020.
As neither Mrs K nor esure can provide evidence that the pairs of glasses were taken 
from the car, the gesture of goodwill of £200.00 was fair and reasonable.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs K 
and Miss R and to esure on 26 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
As shed withdrawn the claim, esure didnt have to deal with Mrs Ks claim for the
damage caused by the lady who had scraped the car.
esure bore responsibility for carelessly causing further damage to the front bumper.
But I didnt think there was enough evidence to show that esure was responsible for 
any other careless damage to the car after the accident.
The vehicle marketing company had paid adequate compensation for the further
damage to the bumper. So it wouldnt be fair for me to direct esure to pay
compensation for the same damage.
I didnt consider that there was enough evidence to show that esure mishandled any
glasses that were in the car. So I was satisfied that its goodwill payment of £200.00 
was more than fair and reasonable.
It was the damage caused by the lady, rather than the further damage to the bumper,
that was the reason Mrs K and Miss R didnt have the use of the car.
Subject to any further information from Mrs K or Miss R or from esure, my provisional 
decision was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct esure Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mrs K and Miss R disagree with the provisional decision. Mrs K says, in summary, that:
She has provided photographs of what her car looked like before the accident and 
what the car looked like when the vehicle marketing company driver bought it back. 
The extra damage was caused by the vehicle marketing company. They have 
accepted liability. The vehicle marketing company tampered with its collection sheet.
The lady has accepted liability for the accident.
She has an estimate from car garages before esure collected her car.
The vehicle marketing company driver asked for the spare keys to her car on 31 
January 2020 when he came to collect the car.
esure sent an email on 28 January 2020 saying the car was a total loss without 
seeing the car. She had sent the pictures of the passenger side where the lady had 
damaged the car.
The car was not damaged enough to be written off by an insurance company that had not seen the car. She has written quotations from a garage that the car can be 
repaired. 
She rang esure on 7 February. She wanted her car back. Every time she called 
esure she was told an engineer would call her back, but no one called. She did not 
withdraw the claim for her car. 
The car was not drivable. The front bumper was falling off, the car would not start, 
the doors would not open, the bumper was broken. 
The damage to her car was caused by esure and the vehicle marketing company. 
That company accepted liability and paid her £1,750.00. 
The damage caused by the lady has not been dealt with by esure.
She had no car for over one year as esure and the vehicle marketing company both 
have been messing her around.
At her age, she is not going to drive a hire car. It has nothing to do with an insurance 
company if they had access to another vehicle or not. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK was in a national lockdown. She was shielding, her 
daughter had no car as the damage caused by esure and the vehicle marketing 
company was not repaired. 
They would like some compensation for all the hurt and stress and being without a 
car for one year. 
The vehicle marketing company paid for the damage they caused. Esure have not 
dealt with her claim. 
She has not withdrawn the claim. She would like to see written evidence that the 
claim was withdrawn as this is likely to be fraud.
She has sent us copies of the text messages she received from esure to confirm the 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car had a number plate personal to Mrs K. According to DVLA, the car had been
manufactured in 2007. In the usual course of events, I find it likely that the car had suffered
incidents of minor damage which hadnt been the subject of insurance claims and that hadnt
been repaired.
Such pre-existing damage would adversely affect the value of the car. That adverse effect
on the value of the car would in turn adversely affect the prospects of an economic repair. In
other words, a lower value car would mean that only lower value repairs would be economic.
When the lady damaged the car in January 2020, the damage was to the left side of the car.
Theres no suggestion that the damage was structural. But it affected several panels.Miss R took the car to a garage for a repair estimate. She has recently sent us a copy of that 
estimate dated 23 January 2020 for £720.00 including VAT. 
Mrs K decided to make a claim to esure. She has sent us copes of three text messages she 
received from esure. The first two are to start the claim and to acknowledge receipt of it in 
late January 2020.
I accept that - from the age of the car and the reported damage to its left side - esure was
able to say that the car wouldnt be economic to repair. According to esure, it sent an email
on 28 January 2020 saying that the car would be a total loss and asking Mrs K and Miss R to
remove any personal items from the car. Miss R told us that on 31 January 2020, the driver
asked Mr K to give him any second key for the car.
So I find that Mrs K and Miss R ought reasonably to have known that esure wasnt going to
repair the car.
It is an unsatisfactory feature of this case that there are two versions of the collection report
sheet dated 31 January 2020. Compared to the version we received from Mrs K, the version
we received from esure indicates more damage to the front bumper. I find it likely that the
vehicle marketing company made that alteration. I dont condone that.
Nevertheless, both versions of the collection report sheet indicate some damage to the front
bumper as well as damage to the right side of the car, its rear bumper and all its wheels. So
 notwithstanding the alteration  I find that this damage was present when the driver
collected the car on 31 January 2020. And I dont find it likely that this damage had been
caused by the lady who had scraped the left side.
Miss R says that she rang esure in response to a text on 5 February 2020 offering a
valuation of £2,300.00. She says she rang again on 7 February 2020. According to her, she
was waiting to hear from esure or its engineer.
The other text message Mrs K has sent us is one dated 10 February 2020 asking her to 
contact esure. Together, the texts show that esure was dealing with Mrs Ks claim up to 10 
February 2020.
There was a telephone call on about 10 February 2020. A transcript of the call says that 
Miss R wanted the car back and she withdrew the claim. And in its email to Mr and Mrs K on 
5 March 2020, esure said they had withdrawn the claim. I havent seen any reply from the 
family contradicting that at the time. So I find that Miss R did withdraw the claim on about 10 
February 2020. 
From the hire invoice, I see that Mrs K gave the courtesy car back on 15 February 2020.
According to the invoice, shed driven it for only 3 miles. So I find it likely that the family had
access to another vehicle at that time.
The vehicle marketing company returned Mrs Ks car on 17 February 2020. I find that 
consistent with the withdrawal of the claim. The family complained that the car had suffered 
further damage.
Ive looked carefully at all the photographs of the car. From those, and from the alteration of
the collection report sheet, I find it likely that esure bears responsibility for carelessly causing
further damage to the front bumper. But I dont think theres enough evidence to show that
esure is responsible for any other careless damage to the car after the accident.
As shed withdrawn the claim, esure didnt have to deal with Mrs Ks claim for the damagecaused by the lady who had scraped the car. And esure didnt have any outlay that it could
seek to recover from the lady (or her insurer).
From the photographs, I find it likely that it was the damage caused by the lady, rather than
the further damage to the bumper, that was the reason Mrs K and Miss R didnt have the use
of the car. So I dont hold esure responsible for the fact that they were unable to use it to do
shopping or other trips.
I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show that esure mishandled any glasses
that were in the car. So Im satisfied that its goodwill payment of £200.00 is more than fair
and reasonable.
In October 2020 (after the investigators opinion), the vehicle marketing company asked for
Miss R to provide a quote for the front bumper, and the company said it would settle this as
quickly as possible. Our investigator asked Miss R for her consent for us to share that quote
with esure, but she declined. However, I consider that Miss R had given consent in our 
complaint form.
In response to the provisional decision, Mrs K has told us that the vehicle marketing 
company paid £1,750.00. Thats the full amount of the quote for the front bumper. From what 
Ive seen, the vehicle marketing company made its payment in November 2020. So Im 
satisfied that the company has paid adequate compensation for the further damage to the 
bumper. So it wouldnt be fair for me to direct esure to pay compensation for the same 
damage.
Mrs K has recently sent us a copy of an email she sent to the third partys insurer in 
November 2020  asking it to pay for the damage she had caused.
According to DVLA, the last V5 was issued in 2010. So I find it likely that Mrs K still owns the
car. It is taxed until July 2021. It passed an MOT in December 2020, so I find it likely that the
car has been driveable since at least that time.
In summary, I find as follows:
As shed withdrawn the claim, esure didnt have to deal with Mrs Ks claim for the 
damage caused by the lady who had scraped the car.
esure bears responsibility for carelessly causing further damage to the front bumper. 
But I dont think theres enough evidence to show that esure is responsible for any 
other careless damage to the car after the accident.
The vehicle marketing company has paid adequate compensation for the further 
damage to the bumper. So it wouldnt be fair for me to direct esure to pay 
compensation for the same damage.
I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show that esure mishandled any 
glasses that were in the car. So Im satisfied that its goodwill payment of £200.00 is 
more than fair and reasonable.
It was the damage caused by the lady, rather than the further damage to the bumper, 
that was the reason Mrs K and Miss R didnt have the use of the car.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman