DRN-1141973
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Zenith Insurance plc (and it's agents), in connection with her pet 
cover.  
What happened
Mrs R held pet cover with Zenith for some years. She was in the middle of an ongoing claim 
when her policy renewed. Due to the claim she was approaching the limit of claim payouts 
for that particular condition. She feels Zenith should have warned her about this, and that if it 
had she would not have renewed, it being uneconomical to do so. Zenith didn't agree so she 
complained to us. 
One of our investigators considered the matter but didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs R asked 
for an ombudsman's review of that decision, so the case has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too won't be upholding this complaint. I'll explain why. 
Mrs R's policy contains various wordings that confirm the policy limit. I don't think they are 
unclear. Equally, the renewal documents issued do mention the limit as well. So, I don't think 
the presence of the limit or its basic workings can be in dispute. 
Turning to the issue of whether a business needs to advise a customer if they are close to 
reaching a policy limit I'm not sure they are. There isn't anything in the contract that 
stipulates this will happen. And of course a consumer can always keep their own record of 
how a claim is mounting up. 
As Mrs R knows there is another unfortunate aspect to this case, the actions of the vet. It 
appears some bills were sent in late, perhaps very late, So I appreciate it might have been 
difficult for her to track the growing claim, but I can't say that was the fault of the insurance 
company. 
I also note that the investigator did discuss with Mrs R the reasons why someone might keep 
a policy going, even if the limit on a condition was reached. Such as cover for accidents, and 
for different conditions. I know Mrs R is clear she wouldn't have kept cover for those 
reasons, but some people do, and that's another factor in my thinking as to whether an 
insurance company should warn people when a limit is going to be exceeded. 
 My final decision
 I make no award against Zenith Insurance plc.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Chris Tilson
Ombudsman