DRN-2675429
The complaint
Mr F and Ms M complain that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) declined a claim for damage to a 
retaining wall and removed flood cover from their policy. 
What happened
Mr F and Ms M noticed damage to a wall at the rear of their property following a storm in 
September 2019. They contacted Lloyds and an inspection of the damage was arranged.
Following that inspection, Lloyds declined the claim on the grounds that Mr F and Ms Ms 
property hadnt been affected by the landslip at the same time as the damage to the wall had 
occurred. Mr F and Ms M were unhappy about this, and said their neighbours insurer had 
accepted their claim, so they couldnt understand why Lloyds hadnt accepted theirs. They 
raised a complaint with Lloyds.
Lloyds responded to the complaint, saying its decision to decline the claim had been made 
correctly, based on the terms and conditions of the policy. And that it couldnt comment on 
why another insurer had come to a different decision in relation to their neighbours claim.
Mr F and Ms M didnt agree with Lloyds response and referred their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended that Lloyds reinstate flood cover 
to the policy  but didnt think it had acted unfairly in declining the claim for damage to the 
wall. As Mr F and Ms M didnt agree that the wall shouldnt be covered, and Lloyds didnt 
agree that it should reinstate the flood cover, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and will be partially upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Lloyds has accepted that a storm event took place and that the wall was damaged as a 
result of that storm. Both parties have provided expert evidence to confirm this. Mr F and 
Ms M instructed two engineers, one of whom confirmed that the collapse of the wall has 
been caused by storm damage and one of whom says the main house has also been 
affected.
Mr F and Ms Ms policy says if a storm causes a landslip, the claim wont be considered 
under the storm part of the policy, but instead under the landslip part of the policy. And loss 
or damage caused by subsidence, heave or landslip isnt covered unless the private 
dwelling is also affected at the same time by the same event. So, even though we know the 
storm event caused the damage to the wall, Ive looked at the reports provided by both 
parties to determine whether the damage to the wall should be covered under this policys 
terms and conditions.
The first report Ive considered is from the loss adjuster, who visited the property in October 
2019, a few weeks after the storm. This says that while the collapse of the stone wall has 
been observed, there is no identifiable damage to the building. I appreciate Mr F and Ms M 
say that the kitchen roof is buckling and they have provided evidence of this, but their 
evidence doesnt show that this also happened as a result of the same storm peril and, 
crucially, at the same time. It is probable, from the evidence Ive seen, that the buckling of 
the kitchen roof started to occur some time after the event which led to the collapse of the 
rear boundary wall. I say this because, the first loss adjuster who visited the property notes 
that there is no damage to the private dwelling  despite Mr F and Ms M saying they pointed 
it out at the time  and it is only later reports which note damage to the main house.
Mr F and Ms M provided a report dated 1 December 2020, which says the retaining wall 
failure has been caused by excessive rainfall, leading to a collapse of the masonry structure. 
The engineer doesnt agree that the main house hasnt been affected. But I have to consider 
that this engineer visited the property some months after the storm and so I cant say for 
certain that the observations made in relation to the main house can be attributed to the 
same insured event as that which affected the retaining wall. Nor does the engineer confirm 
that the damage to the main house occurred at the same time as the damage to the wall. 
This is important in order for the damage to be covered under the terms of the policy.
Another report was provided, dated 28 January 2020  but this report only confirms that the 
wall has been affected by a storm and doesnt comment on whether the main dwelling has 
also been affected by the same insured peril at the same time.
Mr F and Ms M have also referred to their neighbours claim, but I cant comment on this, 
because I dont have the terms and conditions of that policy, so the neighbours policy may 
not be like for like. And in any event, insurers arent bound by the acceptance or declinature 
of other similar claims by different insurers.
So, having considered all the evidence, Im afraid I havent seen enough to persuade me 
that the main dwelling was damaged by the same storm peril which affected the retaining 
wall and at the same time. And based on the terms and conditions of the policy, I therefore 
dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to have declined the claim.
Turning now to the issue of the flood cover which has been removed from Mr F and Ms Ms 
renewed policy, Lloyds has said as the renewed policy was new business, the underwriters 
had the right to decide the risk they were willing to accept. And that Mr F and Ms M could 
have sought cover elsewhere if they were unhappy about the exclusion of flood cover from 
the new policy. But Im not satisfied Lloyds has done enough to show that its acted fairly in 
removing flood cover.
Lloyds has provided a screenshot of a flood database it says it checked when determining 
the risk of flooding for the new policy. It says this showed the risk had increased to a level 
which produces a flood exclusion. But I cant be satisfied from this screenshot alone that 
Lloyds has applied the flood exclusion fairly to all its customers in that area. I dont know 
which website it has used  and its results contradict both the long term and short term flood 
risks indicated for that area on the governments website, which shows a very low risk. So 
for that reason, Im not persuaded that the flood cover has been fairly and consistently 
excluded for all customers in the area, or that the rating factor warrants complete exclusion 
of cover.
Putting things right
Lloyds should reinstate flood cover to Mr F and Ms Ms policy.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Society of Lloyds to put 
things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman