DRN-3133367
The complaint
Miss T complains about her mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Its a joint mortgage but she 
and her partner separated some years ago. She complains that HSBC hasnt let her take the 
mortgage into her own name or take out a new interest rate.  
What happened
Miss T and her former partner Mr G took out their mortgage with HSBC many years ago. 
The mortgage is in two parts  one had a fixed rate which expired in 2008 and the other in 
2010. Both parts of the mortgage have been on the standard variable rate (SVR) since then.
In 2014 Miss T and Mr G separated. Miss T remained in the property and took over paying 
the mortgage, though it stayed in joint names.
Miss T says that she has asked HSBC about removing her former partner and taking a new 
interest rate to lower the payments several times since then, but it has always refused. It 
said the mortgage was not affordable for Miss T on her own.
Miss T says she has recently switched the mortgage to a tracker rate, which has reduced 
her payments. She complains that HSBC didnt suggest taking a new rate without removing 
her partner when she applied before  instead of just turning down her applications. If it had 
done that, she would have taken a new rate sooner and saved substantial interest 
payments. Her new rate has saved her £300 a month. She says that paying more interest 
than she needed to has had a significant impact on her as a single parent with young 
children.
HSBC said that it couldnt make changes to the mortgage without the consent of both 
parties, or while the mortgage was in arrears. It said it had recently changed its policy, which 
was why Miss T was now able to take a new interest rate. But it didnt think it had treated her 
unfairly before the policy change. It offered Miss T £200 compensation for not 
communicating with her as well as it should.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Miss T didnt agree, so it comes 
to me for a final decision to be made. I took a different view so I issued a provisional decision 
to allow the parties a chance for further comment.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
I can see that things have been far from easy for Miss T over the years, and Im sorry to hear 
about the difficulties and financial struggles shes faced.
With that in mind, Ive thought very carefully about whether theres anything more I would 
have expected HSBC to have fairly done to assist her.
When the relationship broke down in 2014, there were immediate financial problems. With 
HSBCs agreement, the mortgage payments for September and October 2014 were missed, 
though partial payments were made. The mortgage continued to be in arrears by just under 
two months payments until the arrears were finally cleared in April 2020.
It was, until 2020, HSBCs policy not to offer new interest rates to borrowers in arrears. So 
this meant that Miss T wasnt eligible for new rates until then.
There were discussions with HSBC in 2015, 2016 and 2018 when HSBC looked at Miss Ts 
finances to see whether the mortgage was affordable for her alone. On each occasion, it 
found that Miss Ts expenditure was higher than her income and therefore it wasnt.
Miss T says that HSBC should have told her that even if she couldnt take the mortgage over 
herself, she could still take a new interest rate and lower the monthly payments.
As Ive said, it wasnt HSBCs policy to allow that at the time while the mortgage was in 
arrears. But Ive thought carefully about whether that resulted in a fair outcome for Miss T 
The reasoning behind a policy not to offer new rates to a customer in arrears is that theres a 
risk theyll bring the mortgage to an end early  either through having to sell the property, or 
through repossession, to deal with the arrears. And that doing so would trigger an early 
repayment charge (ERC) which would increase the amount to be paid back.
But that doesnt apply here. The new tracker rate Miss T took in 2020 doesnt have an ERC 
associated with it. Ive checked, and the same is true of the tracker rates HSBC offered in 
2015 to 2018.
Therefore, if the property had to be sold during the life of the rate, there would be no ERC  
and that objection to offering Miss T a new rate falls away.
Ive also noted that while there were missed payments in 2014, and the arrears that resulted 
werent finally cleared until 2020, there were no further missed payments  and the arrears 
gradually reduced  after 2015.
I think HSBC could have done more to assist Miss T in this case. By 2016, it was some time 
since there had been missed payments. While Miss T hadnt cleared the arrears, neither had 
they increased. Full payments on the SVR had been maintained for a long time.
And while the income and expenditure assessment HSBC carried out showed that the 
mortgage didnt appear to be affordable, in practice Miss T was affording it and making the 
payments. If a new tracker rate had been applied at this point, it would have made it more 
affordable to her  without the risk of an ERC if the mortgage didnt prove to be sustainable.
Miss T had been maintaining the mortgage for some time, and this would have helped her 
clear the remaining arrears and move forward on a sustainable basis. By this time the 
arrears amounted to less than two months payments.
Its therefore difficult to see why offering a tracker rate at this point wasnt in Miss Ts best 
interests, or what the risk of offering one was.
In my view, by the time of the discussion in 2016, Miss T had shown that she could in fact 
manage the mortgage. But that doing so was  as the income and expenditure showed  a 
struggle for her, preventing her reducing the historic arrears. Offering her a new interest rate 
at this point would have been an appropriate form of forbearance to help her deal with the 
arrears and  notwithstanding HSBCs policy on eligibility for a rate  a fair way to assist her. In 2020, HSBC agreed, knowing the circumstances, to proceed without the consent of 
Miss Ts former partner. As this was a tracker rate, with no ERC, it could have done the 
same in 2016.
In all the circumstances, I think a fair way to resolve this complaint is to re-work the 
mortgage as if Miss T had taken a lifetime tracker rate in January 2016, running up to the 
rate she actually took in 2020.
This will result in her having made overpayments to the mortgage. Miss T should be given 
the option of either having the overpayments refunded to her, or used to reduce the 
mortgage balance month by month  once the arrears are cleared. Necessary amendments 
to her credit file should be made too.
Finally, I think HSBC could fairly have done more to assist  and that it didnt do so has led 
Miss T to worry about her financial situation more than she would otherwise have needed to 
do since 2016. I think compensation of £350 is fair in all the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss T accepted my provisional decision. She said that not being given a rate from 2016 had 
had a significant impact on her. It meant she had paid more to the mortgage than she 
needed to  and that had caused problems with other unsecured debt. 
HSBC said it thought the loan to value of Miss Ts property was around 81% in 2016, but it 
would put her in the up to 80% loan to value band. It provided a copy of its rates from that 
time, which showed that in the up to 80% band, it had a fee-free tracker rate of 2.49% above 
Bank of England base rate  making, at that time, the applicable rate to be 2.99%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. But I havent 
changed my mind about the fair way to put things right in this case. Im grateful to HSBC for 
confirming that it will treat Miss Ts mortgage as being in the up to 80% band, and for 
confirming the rates that were available.  
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, I think the fair way for HSBC to put matters right is for it 
to re-work Miss Ts mortgage as if it had been on a tracker rate between 2016 and 2020, 
when Miss T did take a new rate. And Im satisfied that compensation of £350 is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to:
Re-work Miss Ts mortgage so that it is as if it had been on a tracker rate of 2.49% 
above base rate from 1 February 2016 to 28 February 2020, and on the rate she 
took in February 2020 thereafter;Use the resulting overpayments to clear the arrears still outstanding in 2016, and 
then for the remaining overpayments, give Miss T the choice of either:
oHaving the overpayments refunded to her, adding simple annual interest of 
8%* running from the date of each overpayment to date of refund; or
oHaving the overpayments used to reduce the mortgage balance each month, 
reducing interest charged in subsequent months accordingly;
Amend the date the arrears were recorded as cleared on her credit file in line with the 
re-working of the account; and
Pay Miss T £350 compensation. 
* If Miss T selects this option, HSBC UK Bank Plc may deduct income tax from the 8% interest 
element of the refund, if it considers it should do so. But it should give Miss T confirmation of the 
deduction so that she can apply to HMRC for a refund if shes entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman