DRN-2956787
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE should refund the premium they paid 
for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents.  
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs T bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 21 February 2020, to cover any trips of up to 35 days 
duration taken in Europe. The policy year started on 21 February 2020 and was due to end 
on 20 February 2021.
Mr and Mrs T paid £440.74 (excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT)) for the standard level 
of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered their 16 declared medical 
conditions including her osteoarthritis and joint replacement and his arrhythmia. Mr and Mrs 
T also paid an additional premium of £36.65 (excluding IPT) for optional travel disruption 
extension cover and they paid £86.22 (excluding IPT) for cruise plus cover. The premium Mr 
and Mrs T paid for their travel insurance policy, including the additional cover options, 
included a discount of £46.43. Mr and Mrs T paid a total of £629.90 for the policy including 
IPT. 
On 21 April 2020, Mr and Mrs T cancelled their next cruise holiday. On 16 June 2020, Mr 
and Mrs T contacted Great Lakes to cancel their travel insurance policy. Great Lakes said in 
relation to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ts policy that it couldnt offer a full refund as the 
14 day 'cooling-off' period had expired, and the policy terms and conditions said that no 
refund will be issued outside of this period.
However, Great Lakes reviewed their cancellation policy due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19. Following the calculation of the pro-rata refund Great Lakes offered a
pro-rata voucher for £314.83 to use towards a new policy. Great Lakes had calculated the 
pro-rata offer from 16 June 2020 until 20 February 2021. Great Lakes hasnt included the 
premium Mr and Mrs T paid for their optional travel disruption extension cover and for their 
cruise plus cover within its calculations.
The terms of the offer gave options as follows:
An opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual
policy for the price 12, at the current market rates. This offer is limited time only
and can be withdrawn at any time.
Or the opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a deferred annual
policy. This will be a 12-month policy, at the current market rates. Mr and Mrs
T can then choose to start the cover at any time within 12 months of
purchasing the policy. This offer is limited time only and can be withdrawn at any
time.
Or, Great Lakes can now offer UK-only annual multi trip policies, where there is a
potential to upgrade the destination area at a later date subject to Terms and
Conditions.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Great Lakes. It wrote a final response in October 2020 
reiterating its offer. Mr and Mrs T then brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened and recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld in part. She set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how 
they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The 
investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 21 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
She didnt think that the terms of Great Lakes voucher were unreasonably restrictive, so she 
thought the voucher was a fair offer in the circumstances.
She recommended that Great Lakes should provide Mr and Mrs T with a pro-rata refund of 
the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in the form of a 
voucher calculated on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy
from 16 June 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension
cover and for the cruise plus cover from 16 June 2020.
Great Lakes responded to the investigators opinion by saying that the offer isn't fully 
transferable to a third party and can't be used to purchase a single trip policy.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say, in summary, that:
Great Lakes bore no risk for the travel insurance, as the UK was in lockdown from 23 
March 2020, and all cruises cancelled, and travel banned. Mr and Mrs T had to shield 
as they are in their seventies.
Since June 2020, Mr T has seen heart, respiratory and neurology consultants. In 
December 2020, he collapsed and was admitted to hospital where they diagnosed 
sinus node heart disease and he has had a pacemaker fitted. In June 2021 he had 
an emergency appointment with his heart specialist.
Mrs T has seen an orthopaedic consultant for osteoarthritis, in her hand and hip.
Their medical conditions and their age would make the cost of insurance prohibitive 
and would therefore exclude them from travel. So they couldnt use a voucher.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ts insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their cancellation 
rights under the contract. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im upholding this complaint only in part because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling- off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says no premium will be refunded, 
however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances. The terms of the 
policy refer to individual circumstances, such as a change in a health or 
bereavement. So, I dont think that it is fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to 
apply that discretion to the circumstances relating to Covid-19, which impacted on 
many policyholders
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. 
Mr and Mrs T were covered from the 21 February 2020 for a number of listed events 
insured under the policy (including cancellation of any holiday due to illness) and I 
dont think theyve been treated unfairly. 
In the circumstances of this case I think the offer of Great Lakes is fair and 
reasonable save for the following two points:
1. Great Lakes should include a pro rata refund of the premium paid for the 
optional travel disruption extension cover and for the cruise plus cover;
2. Great Lakes should calculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid 
for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on 
risk. 
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case for the following reasons:1. Mr and Mrs T entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring 
under the policy  including for their declared medical conditions. Mr and 
Mrs T were able and willing to travel with their declared conditions when 
they took out the policy.
2. While I understand Mr and Mrs Ts reasons for doing so, it was their 
decision to cancel the insurance policy. Paying a refund by way of a 
voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a 
future date. 
3. While Im sorry to hear of their further medical issues, theres not enough 
evidence that these issues will prevent Mr and Mrs T from booking 
holidays within the next year or so.
4. I accept that their premiums may increase. But in making the offer of a 
voucher Great Lakes is doing more than its required to do under the 
relevant regulations and the policy terms. 
5. I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered are 
unreasonably restrictive for Mr and Mrs T.   
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs T with a pro-rata 
refund of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in the form 
of a voucher calculated on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy
from 16 June 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension
cover and for the cruise plus cover from 16 June 2020;
The refund should include the proportionate amount of IPT Mr and Mrs T paid on the 
premiums. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to provide Mr and Mrs T with a pro-rata refund of the 
premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in the form of a voucher 
calculated on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy
from 16 June 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension
cover and for the cruise plus cover from 16 June 2020;
The refund should include the proportionate amount of IPT Mr and Mrs T paid on the 
premiums. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman