DRN-1275094
 
Complaint
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews Insurance plc (St 
Andrews) has accepted responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews Insurance 
plc has also agreed it is responsible for the complaint. To make things easier Ive referred to 
St Andrews throughout my assessment.
Mrs S says St Andrews mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the policy, 
which provided cover if Mrs S couldnt work because of unemployment or accident and 
sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. 
Where there isnt much evidence (as is the case here) or theres contradictory evidence for 
me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to 
say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision 
based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents available 
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to 
provide any documentation as these events happened over 15 years ago. And whilst I dont 
doubt that Mrs Ss testimony represents her honest and best recollections of the events, 
memories can fade over time, and, as Ive noted, this sale happened over 15 years ago. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows St Andrews didnt secure Mrs Ss agreement to the 
sale or failed to make Mrs S aware the PPI was optional. And Ive noted that the PPI was 
sold some months after the mortgage was agreed. Considering how long ago the sale was in 
this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. 
So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve made Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it, even though she may not remember that now, many years later. 
St Andrews said it recommended the PPI to Mrs S. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for her. I dont know how that was 
achieved at the time, but looking at Mrs Ss circumstances in 2004, I think such a 
recommendation wouldve been reasonable. I say this because:
Mrs S was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a claim. 
The PPI provided cover for up to 24 months if she was too ill to work or if she lost her 
job. Mrs S said she wouldve got good sick pay initially but it dropped significantly 
after six months such that she would have had to rely on her partner for support. The 
policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay she may received from her 
employer and for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of 
pay. I note that Mrs S is now saying that she also had some savings she could have 
relied on. But I note that she chose to protect these savings by not taking a smaller 
mortgage. And this policy would have further protected those savings and would 
have reduced her reliance on any help her partner may have been able to provide. 
So, considering all of this, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on 
a loan secured on her home, I think Mrs S couldve found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable. 
 
I dont know what information Mrs S was given about the policy during the phone call, so its 
possible Mrs S didnt get everything she needed. But for the same reasons given above that 
made me think the policy was suitable for Mrs S, I dont think more or better information 
wouldve made a difference to her decision to buy it. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. And I make no award 
against St Andrews Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman