DRN-2319780
The complaint
Mr O is director of a company that Ill refer to as C. Hes complained on Cs behalf that The
New India Assurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim on their fleet insurance
policy.  
What happened
Mr O claimed on Cs policy after one of their drivers was involved in an accident. New India
turned down the claim because Cs driver had passed their driving test less than two years
previously, and that wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr O complained. He said there was nothing in his documents to say drivers who passed
their test less than two years ago wouldnt be covered. Mr O brought Cs complaint to us. He
said this was a significant limitation and should have been set out in the Insurance Product
Information Document (IPID).
New India said the policy contained an endorsement that said there was no cover for drivers
who had passed their test less than 24 months ago.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 October 2020 where I explained what 
I intended to require New India to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cs policy document contains a page of endorsements. The relevant term on that page says:
Excluding Drivers under 25 over 65 or with less than 24 months full licence
It is noted and agreed that the Insured Vehicle shall not be driven by any person;
(a) who is under 25 years of age
(b) who is over 65 years of age
(c) who has not held a full UK/EU driving licence for a period of 24 months
ICOBS says that when dealing with a commercial customer a firm might choose to provide
an IPID, policy summary or other similar summary document if it considers that to be a
comprehensible form. It says this should include the IPID information, even if an IPID itself
isnt provided.
As part of this information New India is required to highlight any significant or unusual
exclusions or limitations to the policy. I think cover not being provided for drivers who have
held their licence for less than two years is a significant limitation to the policy. And as such I
think New India should have highlighted it.
New India accepts the endorsement isnt contained in a summary document. Instead its
listed on page 27 of the 27-page policy document. I dont think the endorsement is
sufficiently highlighted, as its on the last page of the policy.
I appreciate that the policy summary says it doesnt contain all of the terms and conditions
and should be read alongside the policy document. But I dont think thats enough to have
highlighted the endorsement. Also, the summary says it contains important and unusual
limitations. I think most people would reasonably expect significant endorsements to
contained in the list of information in the policy summary.
If New India had highlighted the endorsement I dont think C would have used a driver who
wasnt covered by the policy. I think New India not highlighting the endorsement caused C a
loss. So, Ive thought about what would have happened if New India had highlighted the
endorsement, in order to decide how to put things right.
If C had been made aware of the endorsement, I think they would have used a driver who
would be covered by the policy. While its arguable that by not using a driver with less than
two years experience might have led to the accident not occurring in the first place, I think
the fair and reasonable way to put things right is for New India to deal with Cs claim. I say
that because C employed the driver under the belief he would be covered by the policy. And
the only reason C has now experienced a loss is because New India didnt highlight the
significant limitation to the policy.
New India didnt agree with my decision. It said Id exonerated the policyholder from having 
to read the last page of their policy. In addition, it said the endorsement about the policy 
highlighted that it was only for drivers over the age of 25 and this was likely the reason C 
bought it, as it could have resulted in a lower premium. It said the broker also liaised with C 
about this requirement. 
Mr O accepted my decision but said C had suffered a number of consequential losses 
amounting to around £18,000, for van hire, storage costs and loss of earnings, as well as a 
loss of market share. 
I asked C to provide further information to support their losses and to show how theyd 
mitigated these. After reviewing this information, I let C know that I didnt intend to award any 
further losses, as I didnt think theyd been able to show that theyd mitigated them. As such, 
I said my final decision was likely to remain along the same lines as that set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Mr O didnt think this was fair as he felt it was New Indias fault C didnt have use of their van 
and hed explored options for getting the van repaired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither New India nor Mr Os comments have persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
New India said the endorsement about the driver age restrictions was highlighted by the 
broker and this was a requirement the broker and Mr O discussed. While I can see this 
happened in relation to the driver age, the driver involved in the accident was over 25. The 
issue here is that the driver had held their licence for less than 24 months. And I dont think 
New India highlighted this significant limitation, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. Mr O said C had to hire a van for busy periods, but still lost earnings each week. He said 
theyd also had to pay storage costs for the damaged van and lost market share due to not 
being able to carry out work in the same way they had before.
The information Mr O provided in support of this hasnt persuaded me that C mitigated their 
losses. I say this because I can see that they looked to source a new van which would have 
cost around £3,000, which is a lot less than the losses C feels theyve incurred. I appreciate 
Mr O said C didnt have a lump sum of money to replace the van, but he has also provided 
an invoice for repairs C has now had carried out for around £1,300. Given the options of 
replacing or repairing his van for a lot less than £18,000 I dont think it would produce a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint for me to require New India to pay the 
consequential losses Mr O feels Cs suffered.
As such my decision remains that New India should deal with Cs claim as though the driver 
was covered under the policy.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The New India Assurance Company Limited to deal with 
Cs claim as though the driver was covered under the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman