DRN-1926040
The complaint
Mrs Z complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited handled a medical assistance claim 
she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Z was on holiday abroad. The day before she was due to fly home, she called BUPAs 
medical assistance team to let it know she was suffering from severe back pain. She wanted 
BUPA to arrange for her seat to be upgraded on her return flight.
BUPA let Mrs Z know that shed need a medical report from a doctor confirming a diagnosis, 
so it could assess whether a seat upgrade was medically necessary. Initially, Mrs Z provided 
a letter from her GP in the UK which stated that she needed an upgrade. BUPAs medical 
team reviewed the letter. 
But as the letter wasnt signed and didnt include a diagnosis or proposed treatment for Mrs 
Zs condition, BUPA didnt think it was sufficient evidence to show an upgrade was medically 
necessary. So BUPA ultimately provided Mrs Z with details of its local provider so that she 
could arrange for a house call from a doctor. The supplier told Mrs Z that itd usually get a 
guarantee of payment from BUPA before a doctor came out. Mrs Z updated BUPA, which 
got in touch with the supplier to make arrangements. It needed Mrs Zs permission though, 
to pass on her number to the supplier. Unfortunately, Mrs Z didnt see the email in time to 
give her permission and see a doctor.
Mrs Z travelled to the airport as planned. She tried to arrange an upgrade directly with the 
airline, but it wasnt able to facilitate this. So Mrs Z travelled as planned in her pre-booked 
seat. She said she was in real pain. After her return, she received spinal injections to treat 
her condition. She made a complaint about the way BUPA had handled her request for help. 
BUPA acknowledged itd initially emailed the wrong email address and that it hadnt been 
proactive as it couldve been in contacting Mrs Z. It apologised for these failings. But it said 
the assistance team had correctly told Mrs Z that it needed a medical report from a doctor 
whod examined her which showed it was medically necessary for her flight to be upgraded. 
As Mrs Z hadnt provided this information, it felt itd handled her claim fairly.
Mrs Z remained unhappy with the way BUPA had handled her claim and she asked us to 
look into her complaint. She felt BUPA should pay £2000 compensation for her pain and 
suffering.
Our investigator accepted that BUPA had made some mistakes in the way it handled Mrs Zs 
claim  notably in first emailing the wrong address and then in not updating her more 
regularly. But overall, she felt BUPA had dealt with Mrs Zs claim fairly. She thought the 
assistance team had clearly told Mrs Z from the start what information it needed from her. 
And then itd tried to arrange a doctor to visit her at her accommodation to try and establish 
whether it was medically necessary for her to be upgraded. She also felt that given Mrs Z 
had been experiencing pain for around five days, it mightve been reasonable for her to get 
in touch with BUPA earlier.
Mrs Z disagreed. Ive summarised her response.
BUPA hadnt told Mrs Z she needed to get a medical report filled in and it hadnt told 
her it would accept a report in another language;
Although the notes showed BUPA had tried to call her, she didnt have any missed 
calls on her phone;
BUPAs call handler hadnt explained the usual payment process with its supplier;
The doctor BUPA recommended hadnt been willing to see her;
She hadnt got in touch with BUPA earlier due to a religious holiday;
£2000 is nominal compensation for the pain she experienced and the fact she 
needed spinal injections following her return to the UK.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided BUPA doesnt need to do anything more. Ill explain why.
First, I appreciate Mrs Z experienced a very painful and upsetting situation while she was 
abroad. Im sorry to hear about her condition and I hope the treatment she received 
successfully helped her to recover. Id also like to reassure Mrs Z that while Ive summarised 
the background to her complaint and what happened, Ive read and considered everything 
both she and BUPA provided in detail.
Ive looked carefully at the medical emergency section of Mrs Zs policy. This section 
explains that BUPA will cover medical expenses of a sudden and unforeseen nature for 
bodily injury and illness. It also says that covers only provided if a recognised medical 
practitioner tells a policyholder that they need immediate in-patient or out-patient treatment.
The policy also says that BUPA will cover: additional travelling costs to repatriate you to the 
UK when recommended by our senior medical officer.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mrs Z was suffering from severe back pain, which did 
require treatment when she returned to the UK. But before BUPAs medical team could 
determine whether to pay for an upgrade for Mrs Z, it needed to see evidence which showed 
a diagnosis and that she needed immediate treatment. Thats so its senior medical officer 
could assess whether an upgraded flight was medically necessary.
Ive listened to the initial calls between Mrs Z and BUPAs call handler. I think BUPA did 
make the information it needed clear enough during the call. Its unfortunate that the call 
handler sent an email to the incorrect address following the call. But I think he gave Mrs Z 
enough information about what BUPA needed to assess her claim during the call to enable 
her to try and get a medical report.
Mrs Z says she then saw a doctor abroad who thought she needed to be upgraded so that 
she could lie flat. But she said the doctor didnt speak English, so she arranged for her 
surgery in the UK to send a letter explaining that she needed an upgrade. I appreciate it 
mustve been frustrating when she learned that this letter wasnt enough to show BUPA that 
an upgrade was medically necessary. But its explained that this was because the letter 
didnt provide a diagnosis, the proposed treatment and the doctor hadnt had the ability to 
examine Mrs Z. I think this was a reasonable response from BUPA  as I dont think its senior medical officer had enough medical evidence to assess whether an upgrade was 
needed.
Im satisfied BUPA did take reasonable steps to try and assist Mrs Z after this point. It 
offered to arrange a doctor via one of its providers to come and visit her, but Mrs Z had 
specific requests about who could treat her. This wasnt something BUPA could arrange 
itself, so it passed its providers details onto Mrs Z so she could set up an appointment. This 
was outside of the usual process, so its unfortunate that the provider couldnt organise this 
with Mrs Z at that point. But I can see that BUPA was in contact with the provider to try and 
move things along and that the hold-up was the fact it needed Mrs Zs permission to pass on 
her number.
Mrs Z told us that she did receive an email from BUPA asking for that permission late that 
night, but that she didnt see it until the following day. So Im satisfied BUPA did try to 
progress things. Its unfortunate that Mrs Z didnt see the email and so things couldnt move 
along. But I think that given she was waiting to see a doctor, it mightve been reasonable for 
her to either try and get back in touch with the provider directly or with BUPA to chase things 
up. Because Mrs Z didnt give BUPA permission to pass on her information, the provider 
wasnt able to arrange a call-out and assessment for her.
On that basis, I dont think BUPA had a fair chance to assess what Mrs Zs likely diagnosis 
was and whether it was medically necessary for her to have an upgraded seat. I think it 
made reasonable and appropriate steps to help Mrs Z obtain the information she needed. 
Because she didnt obtain a medical report which gave a diagnosis or explained why an 
upgrade would be medically necessary, I dont think BUPA acted unfairly or outside of its 
policy terms by not upgrading Mrs Zs seat.
However, its clear that BUPA didnt update Mrs Z as much as it couldve done during the 
day. And it did originally send an email to the wrong email address. I dont doubt that this 
caused Mrs Z additional upset at an already distressing time. But BUPAs notes do show 
that it tried to get in touch with Mrs Z and Im satisfied it did take fair steps to try and help 
her. So considering everything, I think its apology for these mistakes was enough to 
recognise the impact it had on Mrs Z. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Zs position, Im not telling BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman