DRN-4165529
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oplo PL Ltd, trading as Oplo, lent to him irresponsibly when it gave him 
a loan that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr M took out an unsecured loan for £4,500 with Oplo in February 2021. The loan was 
repayable over three years at a cost of £192.27 a month, making the total amount payable 
£6921.80. Mr M declared that the loan was for debt consolidation purposes.
Mr M, through his representative, says that Oplo failed to conduct sufficient checks on his 
individual financial position. He thinks Oplo was negligent in allowing him to take the loans. 
He asks that Oplo pay back all interest and any charges he paid and to pay him 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr M made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision. 
Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Oplo should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. There may even come a point where 
the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was 
unsustainable. For smaller sums and in the early days of a lending relationship it may be 
reasonable for Oplo to have done fewer checks.
Oplo has provided copies of the checks it did before it lent to Mr M. It completed a full 
income and expenditure assessment based on information Mr M gave to it about his income 
and using Office of National Statistics information. It assessed Mr Ms expenditure on things 
like travel, food, energy, insurances, utilities and council tax and took into account 
repayments Mr M had to make each month on other credit which were visible on his credit 
file, such as credit cards and his mortgage. 
From Mr Ms credit file Oplo was able to establish that Mr M didnt have any outstanding 
County Court Judgments or current arrears. There had been no defaults on Mr Ms credit file 
in the last three years. 
Using this information, Oplo assessed that Mr M had a monthly disposable income of £764. 
Once the loan repayments were taken into account and Mr M had consolidated his debts he 
would have been left with a disposable income of around £570, suggesting that the loan 
repayments would be affordable.
 
I think the checks Oplo completed were reasonable and proportionate. I think it acted on 
those checks in a fair and reasonable manner. I dont think they showed anything to indicate 
that there was reason to believe Mr M might find the repayments unaffordable and so I dont 
think Oplo needed to do anything further before it lent to Mr M.
Mr M suggests that this lending resulted in him having to take further borrowing at a later 
stage. This isnt relevant to whether Oplo acted fairly at the time of providing the loan. 
Indeed, Mr M has provided evidence of his financial circumstances at the time of the loan 
which shows that his income was higher than he declared to Oplo at the time of application, 
so he is likely to have had even higher disposable income than Oplos checks revealed.
Furthermore, Mr M provided his credit file which, again, doesnt show any evidence that he 
was overindebted or that Oplo missed information it ought to have been aware of. Oplo has 
also indicated that Mr M has made all payments on the loan on time and in full and Mr M has 
not contacted it to say he is struggling with them.
 
So, on the information available to me I dont agree that Oplo acted unfairly when it lent to 
Mr M and I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint so it follows that Oplo PL Ltd does not have to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman