DRN-3955889
The complaint
Mr W complains Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly refused to cover the costs of repairing 
damage to his vehicles engine.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr Ws vehicle suffered bodywork damage in a collision. Tesco, as insurer 
of the vehicle, arranged for it to be taken to one of its approved repairers (AR). Whilst in the 
ARs possession it suffered an engine seizure.
Mr W asked Tesco to cover the engine repair  as the vehicle was in the hands of its agent 
when the damage happened. He felt it was responsible as it had failed to take adequate 
care. Tesco refused. It said the damage was due to mechanical fault, not related to the 
collision and so wasnt covered by the terms of the policy. It said neither was the loss the 
responsibility of its AR. Mr W wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He wants Tesco to 
reimburse him the cost of repair and pay him compensation. 
Our investigator felt Tescos position that the damage wasnt accident related was fair and 
reasonable. Neither was she persuaded its AR was responsible. So she didnt recommend 
Tesco cover the cost of repair. Mr W didnt accept that outcome. The complaint was referred 
to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so Im not going to require Tesco to reimburse Mr W for the repair to his 
engine. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr W and Tesco provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Id first like to explain to Mr W why Ive decided to issue this decision without allowing further 
time to provide information about the vehicles starter motor. The complaints been with this 
service for a long time. Its in the interest of all involved to have it resolved as soon as 
possible. And I consider it unlikely either of his sources will by now be able to provide 
anything thats likely to change my position on this complaint. 
I note Mr W doesnt connect the engine failure to the collision. But for completeness Ive 
considered the terms of his policy. The policy excludes mechanical failure. It seems to be 
agreed that the oil pump failure resulted in oil starvation and so caused significant damage 
to the engine. Regardless of responsibly Im satisfied thats mechanical failure. So Tescos 
decision that the engine repair isnt covered by the policy is reasonable. 
But Mr Ws view is Tescos ARs employees failure to take proper care is the cause of 
damage. In summary Mr W feels the vehicle wasnt stopped quickly enough in response to a 
warning light  leading to unnecessary destruction of the engine. He doesnt accept Tescos 
position that the fault could have happened at any time  nor its explanation that the ARs 
driver pulled up within a minute, and at the first safe location, after experiencing vibrations. 
I accept its possible the ARs driver did fail to take proper care of the vehicle. But for me to 
fairly require Tesco to reimburse Mr W, the cost of repair, he would need to persuade me 
they most likely did. I realise this will be frustrating for him, but I havent seen enough to 
persuade me of that. 
Ive considered everything Mr Ws said and provided  including his thoughts on the lack of 
stored diagnostic codes, his doubt around the ARs account, the need for a replacement 
starter motor and the time the engine would need to run before damage occurring. But for 
me the ARs account is plausible. I havent seen enough to fairly say its probably not true. 
Mr Ws referred to a manufacturer workshops opinion an engine could run for four to five 
minutes with no oil. But it seems likely to me that the extent of additional damage incurred 
would vary depending on the individual circumstances. So Im not persuaded its as simple 
as stating damage occurred, therefore the ARs driver must have continued for longer than 
one minute.      
In addition Mr W hasnt provided strong evidence, like a report from an expert thats 
inspected the vehicle, to support the AR being responsible. So on balance Tescos position 
that its AR isnt seems fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Tesco Underwriting Limited to reimburse Mr W 
the repairs costs or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman