DRN-3884692
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that HSBC Private Bank (UK) Limited is threatening to take legal action to 
recover an outstanding mortgage debt.
Ms G complained to HSBC about this, and a number of other issues. I have today issued a 
jurisdiction decision in which I have explained that those other issues are outside our 
jurisdiction. This decision is limited to Ms Gs complaint about recovery action.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms G being identified. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome, or which fall outside our jurisdiction.
Ms G and her ex-husband, Mr G, have a mortgage of about £16 million on their former 
matrimonial home (where Ms G lives). In 2019 the bank wrote to Ms G because the 
mortgage interest payments of about £23,000 per month werent being maintained by Mr G. 
There are now substantial arrears and HSBC is considering taking legal action to recover the 
debt.
Ms G complained about this, and about other issues which, as explained above, are outside 
our jurisdiction.
An investigator looked at what had happened. She was satisfied that, because the mortgage 
repayments werent being made, HSBC was entitled to consider recovery action. The 
investigator didnt think HSBC had treated Ms G unfairly.
Ms G disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has made detailed submissions in response to the investigators findings  most of 
which relate to the issues that are outside our jurisdiction, and so I will not comment on 
those matters. Ms G acknowledges that HSBC is entitled to take enforcement action, but 
says HSBC should not do so until it has answered all the questions shes put to the bank to 
her satisfaction.
I appreciate Ms G wants to consider making an early offer to settle, but says she will only 
do so if she is provided with certain documents relating to Mr Gs dealings with HSBC. I cant 
see any basis on which HSBC could disclose Mr Gs documents to Ms G without his express 
consent. I dont have any power to order HSBC to release them and, in any event, the 
historic issues relating to the lending are, as I have already decided, outside our jurisdiction.
Its up to HSBC to decide how to operate its business  including the conduct of enforcement 
action and risk management. Overall, Im not persuaded that there is any basis  nor would 
it be fair or reasonable  to expect HSBC to hold off recovery action, given the level of 
arrears. 
I can understand how upsetting Ms G has found this situation. She is faced with the very real 
prospect of losing her home, and I dont underestimate the distress this is causing her. But 
Im satisfied that HSBC is entitled to take recovery action where there are substantial 
arrears. 
If the bank does decide to start legal action, Ms G would, of course, be free to raise in court 
any of the arguments shes raised with us in defence of any claim for possession. I would 
suggest Ms G takes legal advice before doing so.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms G was hoping for, but in all the circumstances, Im unable to 
find HSBC has done anything wrong in informing Ms G that it is considering recovery action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman