DRN-2903397
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that a business who Ill call A, acting on behalf of Amtrust Europe Limited 
(who Ill refer to as Amtrust) unfairly declined a claim she made under her GAP insurance 
policy after her car was stolen in September 2019. Mrs Z is represented in her complaint by 
Mr Z.
What happened
Mrs Z purchased a GAP RTI insurance policy in September 2016 when she purchased a 
new car. The car was stolen in September 2019. 
In October 2019 Amtrust declined Mrs Zs claim because the terms and conditions of the 
policy indicate there will be no cover provided, in the event of total loss of the vehicle, where 
its being used for hire or reward. Amtrust explained that as the vehicle was insured for the 
carriage of passengers or goods for hire and reward, they were unable to accept her claim. 
Mrs Z told us that when the car was purchased, she was assured that as long as she had 
fully comprehensive insurance cover for the car, the GAP insurance would be valid. She also 
said that she purchased the GAP cover in good faith to cover the shortfall between the 
invoice price and the insurance settlement. On receiving the decline decision, Mrs Z 
complained to Amtrust.
In May 2020, Amtrust issued their final response to Mrs Zs complaint in which they 
confirmed their view that the claim had been correctly declined in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Mrs Z wasnt happy with Amtrusts response so referred her complaint to this service in 
October 2019. Our investigator looked into the complaint and issued her view upholding the 
complaint on 30 July 2020. She concluded that there was no evidence to show that Mrs Z 
used the vehicle for any of the purposes set out in the exclusion which Amtrust relied on in 
declining the claim. Our investigator also said there was nothing in the policy terms and 
conditions to suggest the vehicle had to be insured under a motor vehicle policy that 
excluded commercial or business use. She upheld the complaint on the basis that the 
exclusion didnt apply.
Amtrust disagreed with the view and requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
They said that because the vehicle was insured for business use including the carriage of 
passengers or goods for hire and reward, it wasnt covered by the GAP terms and 
conditions. Amtrust also commented that, in their view, if the vehicle wasnt being used for 
hire and reward it would make no sense to insure the vehicle as such because that would 
massively increase the cost of the customers own road risk insurance.
On 25 June 2021, I emailed Amtrust to explain that I was intending to uphold this complaint. 
I clarified that although the view had referred to the business as A, the decision would be 
issued against Amtrust Europe Limited, as the business responsible for the decision to 
decline the claim.
 
I said I was minded to uphold the complaint on the basis that the GAP policy terms don't 
specify that the Motor Vehicle Insurance must not provide cover for commercial use, and 
also on the basis that there is no evidence to show the vehicle was used for commercial use.
 
In addition, I explained there was an additional point that hadnt previously been addressed, 
which I wanted to give Amtrust an opportunity to comment on, before issuing my final 
decision on the complaint. 
I pointed out that the eligibility criteria for the GAP policy says that the owner of the vehicle 
(covered by the GAP policy) must be the insured under the motor vehicle insurance policy. 
However, as Amtrust will have been aware from correspondence in relation to the complaint 
(and most likely from when the policy was put on risk) Mrs Z is a named driver on her 
husband's insurance policy, she is not the insured.
 
I went on to say that I didn't think it would be fair or reasonable to decline the claim on that 
basis, because the vehicle was covered by motor vehicle insurance, which had paid out on 
the total loss of the vehicle. So, Amtrusts position, as the underwriter of the GAP policy, 
wouldn't be any different if Mrs Z was the insured, rather than the named driver on the motor 
vehicle insurance. The vehicle was covered for total loss, which the motor vehicle insurer 
paid out on. 
The only comment Amtrust made in response to the points I raised was to repeat that: The 
claim was not upheld as the insurance documents provided confirmed the vehicle was 
insured for business including the carriage of passengers or goods for hire & reward. As this 
is the only argument Amtrust have provided to support their decision to decline the claim, it 
is this argument I will address to in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive explained to Amtrust, the conclusions I was intending to reach in this final decision. Ive 
also provided Amtrust with an opportunity to provide their comments on those proposed 
conclusions, as Ive said in the background to this decision. Now that Amtrust have given me 
a response, Im satisfied that its appropriate to proceed to issue a final decision on this 
complaint. 
The terms and conditions relevant to the combined GAP/RTI Insurance policy are set out on 
page eight of the policy terms and conditions. There is no dispute that Mrs Z made a valid 
claim under the policy. So, the issue for me to decide is whether Amtrust fairly declined the 
claim.
However, for completeness I will first address what is covered under the policy.
Page eight of the policy terms and conditions say:
WHAT IS COVERED
If within the Period of Insurance an incident occurs within the stated Geographical Limits 
which results in a Total Loss under your Motor Insurance Policy, this insurance will pay the 
financial shortfall (whichever is the greater) between the amount you receive from the Motor 
Insurance Policy and;
1. The purchase invoice price of the Vehicle; or2. The outstanding settlement value on Your finance agreement subject to the original 
amount financed being less than or equal to the Vehicle purchase price.
This will include Motor Insurance Policy excess up to an amount of £250.
The Motor Insurance Policy is defined as a fully comprehensive policy of motor insurance 
which covers the Vehicle in respect of damage, fire and theft, and which is maintained in 
Your name throughout the Period of Insurance
Mrs Z confirmed that the motor vehicle insurance policy did pay out on the total loss of the 
car, but says it left her with a shortfall of £9,500 which she has claimed for under the GAP 
policy. Amtrust hasnt disputed the fact that Mrs Z has made a valid claim under the GAP 
policy. However, theyve relied on an exclusion set out in paragraph 1.3 of the policy terms 
and conditions, and detailed below, to decline the claim.
WHAT IS NOT COVERED.
Vehicles:
1.3 used for hire or reward, taxis, racing, pace making, speed, testing, reliability, trials 
rallying, or vehicles used for any other competitive event
In support of their decision to decline the claim, on the basis of this exclusion, Amtrust have 
argued that the vehicle was used for hire or reward on the basis that:
the vehicle was insured for business use including the carriage of passengers or goods 
for hire & reward; and 
in their view, if the vehicle wasnt being used for hire and reward it would make no sense 
to insure the vehicle as such as that would massively increase the cost of the 
customers own road risk insurance.
On the other hand, Mrs Z has explained that theyd decided to save money by using Mr Zs 
no claims bonus to insure the vehicle on his existing motor vehicle insurance policy. 
Mrs Z has also told us that the car was only used for social, domestic and pleasure 
purposes, as set out in the motor vehicle policy terms and conditions.
Section 6 of the motor vehicle insurance policy terms and conditions says:
Limitations as to use specified:
Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes and for the business of the insured including 
the carriage of passengers or goods for hire and reward by previous booking subject to all 
vehicles and drivers being appropriately licensed by the local council where legally required. 
Excluding hiring, the letting on hire, racing, pacemaking, use in any contest, reliability or 
speed trial, or use for any purpose in connection with the Motor Trade.
It is a policyholders responsibility to show they have an insured loss which Mrs Z has done. 
It is then the insurers responsibility to support its decision to decline the claim by showing 
that an exclusion clause applies to the circumstances of the claim. However, for the same 
reasons as those given by our investigator, Im of the view that Amtrust have not shown that 
the exclusion clause reasonably applies to Mrs Zs circumstances. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not, happened.
On the one hand, Amtrust is of the view that Mrs Z used the vehicle for hire or reward 
because the motor vehicle insurance policy included cover for the carriage of passengers or 
goods for hire and reward by previous booking, and because they believe insurance that 
included this cover would be more expensive than a policy that didnt include this cover (and 
so would only be taken out if the vehicle was intended to be used for commercial purposes).
On the other hand, Mrs Z told us that the vehicle was only used for social, domestic and 
pleasure purposes, and the decision to insure the car on her husbands policy, which also 
covered his business use of his own vehicle, was based on the savings theyd achieve by 
utilising his no claims bonus.
The exclusion that Amtrust is seeking to rely on, refers to the vehicle being used for hire and 
reward. The only evidence theyve provided shows the vehicle was insured for hire and 
reward, which is not the same thing. In the absence of any persuasive evidence to show the 
vehicle was used for hire or reward, Im upholding this complaint on the basis that Amtrust 
has unreasonably applied the exclusion and has unfairly declined Mrs Zs claim.
Putting things right
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to settle Mrs Zs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It should add simple interest to the settlement amount at a rate of 
8% a year from the date of Mrs Zs claim to the date payment is made*. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. If 
Amtrust Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest due to Mrs Z, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs Z a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay 
the awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman