DRN-3125026
The complaint
Miss A says Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Miss A took out a loan over 60 months from Bamboo on 27 August 2019. It was for £5000
and the monthly repayments were £197.09. The total repayable was £11,825.37. I
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Miss A said Bamboo didnt complete good enough affordability checks, had it done so it
would not have agreed to lend to her.
Our investigator found that Bamboo lent irresponsibly to Miss A. He found the
lenders checks were not proportionate, and better checks ought to have led to a different
lending decision as there were signs the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Miss A.
Bamboo rejected this conclusion. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was
passed to me to make a decision.  
I reached the same conclusion as the investigator, but my findings varied slightly so I issued 
a provisional decision (an extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked for 
any new comments and evidence by 24 October 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Miss A before it approved the loan. It
asked about her income and checked this using an income verification tool. It also checked
Miss As credit file to understand her current credit commitments and credit history. It made
some assumptions about her living expenses based on national averages. It asked about the
purpose of the loan, which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined Bamboo
concluded Miss A had monthly disposable income of £884.01 and so could afford the loan.
Im not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the
loan. Bamboo need to be sure Miss A would be able to afford to sustainably make
repayments for five years. And as there was adverse information in the credit check Bamboo
carried out I think it should have completed a fuller financial review using actuals, rather than
relying primarily on national statistics or averages. I note Bamboo says this service has
previously concluded that using national statistics is an appropriate check, but we review
each case on its individual merits and what may be proportionate in one set of
circumstances may not be in another. But I wont comment further on this as even given the
checks it carried out I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
The credit check Bamboo completed showed Miss A had defaulted on three accounts in the
last 12 months. Bamboo pointed out that none of these were in the eight months leading up
to the application, but Im not persuaded there was sufficient evidence to fairly conclude that
she was no longer having problems managing her money. Miss A was making no inroads
into reducing the defaulted debts. I think this ought to have concerned Bamboo given that it
understood she had £884.01 of disposable income each month. And she had also already
needed to take out a loan for £5000 six months earlier.
Miss A told Bamboo the purpose of this loan was to consolidate debts, but I cant see it took
any steps to understand which debts and/or how giving the loan for this purpose would
impact Miss As overall indebtedness. It seems to have focused on pounds and pence
affordability, without considering as part of its lending decision whether almost doubling her
overall indebtedness to £15,173.37 (assuming she used the full £5000 to reduce her existing
debt to £3347 before increasing it by the total repayable here of £11,825.37) would be
potentially harmful. It would clearly prolong her use of high-cost credit. In response to our
investigators assessment Bamboo said it couldnt know from the credit check that the
February 2019 loan was a guarantor loan. But it could have asked for more information
about this loan to help it make a fair decision.
I note it also argues that the loan was sufficient for her to clear her default balances
therefore putting her in a better financial position  but this may not be the case as it was
giving her a high-cost loan and its likely interest had been frozen on her defaulted balances.
Plus, Miss A hadnt used the £5000 loan she took out in February 2019 to clear any of her
defaulted balances so Im unsure on what grounds Bamboo is making this assumption.
It needed to consider not just the monthly affordability, but also the longer-term impact of
giving the loan to meet its obligations under CONC 5.2A.12(R) which sets out (amongst
other things):
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
And for the reasons set out above I think Bamboo ought to have realised there was a risk
that the loan might be harmful to Miss As overall financial position. It follows I currently think
Bamboo was wrong to give the loan to Miss A.
I then set out what Bamboo would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint.
Bamboo responded with some additional comments before the deadline, Miss A didnt 
comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
In response to my provisional decision Bamboo said the loan might not necessarily have 
increased Miss As overall indebtedness due to the different ways a lender can report credit 
(excluding interest charges, or including them as Bamboo does). It suggests the other £5000 
loan is net of interest and therefore the total amount to repay would be far higher than what 
was reported at the time of this loan application. And so by Bamboo lending to Miss A for the 
purposes of debt consolidation her level of debt remained fairly consistent.
This point does not change my conclusion. Whilst I accept the point that lenders report 
differently, as I said in my provisional decision I found no evidence that Bamboo took any steps to understand what debt Miss A intended to repay with its loan  and therefore to 
understand whether or not its loan might be financially detrimental for her. Nor did it put in 
place direct repayment of any of her debt as other lenders often do. I cant fairly find that it 
made its lending decision with any certainty that it was reducing  or at the very least not 
increasing Miss As overall indebtedness. So I think it was most likely prolonging her use of 
high-cost credit.
Also, Bamboo argued previously that the loan was sufficient for her to clear her default 
balances therefore putting her in a better financial position. I pointed out Miss A hadnt used 
the £5000 loan she took out in February 2019 to clear any of her defaulted balances - so I 
was unsure on what grounds Bamboo was making this assumption. And given it was lending 
Miss A a total of £5000, I also dont think that it can fairly argue that she would be able to 
clear the guarantor loan she took out in February 2019 (thus it wasnt increasing her overall 
indebtedness) as well as her older defaulted debts.
Overall, I still think Bamboos lending decision is unfair as it seems to rely on certain 
assumptions about how Miss A would use the loan, rather than being based on conclusive 
information it gathered to check that the loan would most likely be sustainably affordable for 
Miss A, and not harmful to her overall financial situation. And as I said previously, there were 
signs of previous financial stress that I dont find historic enough so as to not be relevant - 
the credit check Bamboo completed showed Miss A had defaulted on three accounts in the 
last 12 months.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Miss A.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss A to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It seems Bamboo hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Bamboo is not able to buy the debt
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Miss A made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss As loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss As loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss A.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should
give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss As complaint. Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) must put 
things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman