DRN-3087573
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont restore its car to its pre-
accident condition following a claim made on its commercial motor insurance policy. J is 
represented in this matter by Mr N. 
What happened
J had a fleet policy with Aviva. One of its cars was stolen and recovered damaged. But Aviva 
said that the cars alloy wheels had been replaced and these were an undisclosed 
modification. It said it wouldnt pay for their replacement, just for standard wheels. J was 
unhappy as it said it hadnt asked for the wheels to be changed and they were fitted prior to 
purchase. It said Aviva hadnt told them the policy terms and condition it had relied on to 
refuse to make the replacements. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. Aviva had declined to 
pay for the replacement of the wheels because of a policy breach due to the undisclosed 
modifications. But he thought this should be dealt with as a misrepresentation. 
The investigator thought J should have reasonably disclosed the changed wheels as a 
modification under its duty of fair presentation when it took out the policy with Aviva. He 
thought this wasnt deliberate or reckless. Aviva said it would still have offered cover, albeit 
on different terms if the disclosure had been made. So the investigator thought Aviva should 
calculate the proportionate settlement it should have made and, if this was to Js benefit, 
settle the claim accordingly.
Aviva replied that it disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva declined to replace the cars wheels as it said there had been a breach of policy. It 
said J hadnt disclosed the modification, i.e. the replacement wheels, and no modifications 
were permitted under the policy. 
But I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be considered under the 
Insurance Act 2015. This is because under the Act, J had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a policy. This means it had to disclose 
either:
everything it knew, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer 
in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
The cars wheels had been replaced with very expensive alternatives. I can see from the 
invoices provided that the replacement had been made before J bought the car. But I think J 
would reasonably have been aware of them at the time of purchase. Or it could have asked 
the dealer if it was unsure what had been changed from the manufacturers standard 
specification. And so I think J should have disclosed the modification to Aviva, but it didnt.  
Aviva has told us that if the modification had been disclosed, it would still have offered cover, 
but with an increased premium and possibly an increased policy excess. But it hasnt 
specified what these would be. 
So I think that as Aviva would still have offered cover but on different terms, then this is a 
qualifying breach under the Insurance Act 2015. I havent seen evidence that the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. And as Aviva would have charged a higher 
premium if the modification had been disclosed, the available remedy is for it to take a 
proportionate approach to any claims. This means it may settle them in proportion to the 
amount of premium that was paid compared to what should have been paid. 
Aviva hasnt told us what the increased premium would be in order to calculate a 
proportionate settlement for the claim. So I cant see whether its current settlement, including 
replacing the wheels with standard ones, has put J in a better position than a proportionate 
settlement. And so, to put things right, I think Aviva should calculate the proportionate 
settlement is could have paid and, if this is better for J, settle the claim accordingly. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to calculate the increased premium and proportionate 
settlement it could have paid to settle the claim and, if this is better for J, to settle the claim 
proportionately. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman