DRN-2111533
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way she was treated by Suzuki Financial Services Limited when a 
hire purchase agreement came to an end.
What happened
In August 2015 Ms B took a car on hire purchase from Suzuki. The hire purchase agreement 
recorded that she was to make 42 monthly payments of £148.27 and, 43 months after the 
date of the agreement, a final payment of £3,191.
The agreement also included, at clause 5:
5. HOW YOU MAY BECOME THE OWNER OF THE GOODS
5.1 You will become the owner of the Goods when you have paid all the Repayments shown 
on page 1 and the Purchase Fee (if any) included in the Final Repayment for the Goods and 
all other amounts due under this Agreement less any applicable rebate for early payment
5.2 If you do not buy the Goods, you must return them at the end of this Agreement.  
Clause 6 included:
6 GOODS RETURN OPTION
This clause applies only if the GOODS RETURN OPTION' section on page 1 (including the 
Guaranteed Future Value) has been completed and you have paid all the Repayments 
shown on page 1 (except the Final Repayment for the Goods) and all other amounts due 
under this Agreement.
6.1 Instead of paying the Final Repayment for the Goods you may return them to us on or 
before the date when it is due 
Towards the end of the 43-month term of the agreement Ms B decided that she needed to 
keep the car. She didnt however have the means to make the final payment of over £3,100. 
She contacted Suzuki to see if it would allow her to make a smaller payment of £2,000 and 
pay the balance by continuing to make the same monthly payments as she had been 
making. Suzuki declined and said that Ms Bs options were to make the full payment or 
return the car.
Ms B didnt think this was fair, as she needed the car for work. She did however agree to the 
return of the car. Suzuki says that it then tried to contact Ms B on a number of occasions but 
was unable to do so. Ms B says that Suzuki had her home telephone number and address 
but used her mobile number, even though she had told Suzuki that she could not take calls 
while she was at work. It was therefore some time before Suzuki collected the car. Ms B said 
she ought to be paid for the costs she incurred as a result  including maintenance and 
insurance. 
Suzuki acknowledged that it should have explained to Ms B that she could have sold the car 
privately and paid her £75 in recognition of that. It didnt accept that it had otherwise treated 
her unfairly. Ms B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered it. 
The investigator concluded however that Suzuki hadnt treated Ms B unfairly and didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms B didnt accept his conclusions, however, and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.            
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues here: Suzukis refusal to accept Ms Bs proposal for payment of 
the final instalment due under the hire purchase agreement and the delay in collecting the 
car. 
Ms B agreed when she entered into the hire purchase agreement that, if she wanted to keep 
the car at the end of the agreement, she would make a payment of £3,191. If she didnt 
make the payment, she would have to return the car. In asking Suzuki to accept the final 
payment by instalments, therefore, she was asking it to agree to a change in the agreement. 
I can see why she wanted that and why she thinks it would have been good for Suzukis 
reputation if it had done so. Ultimately, however, it was for Suzuki to decide whether to agree 
to the arrangement she proposed  as a matter of its own commercial judgment. I dont 
believe I can properly conclude that it wasnt entitled to exercise that judgment in the way it 
did. 
Ms B also agreed that when the agreement came to an end (as it did when Suzuki declined 
her offer) she would return the car. I accept that Suzuki could have used different means of 
communication to contact Ms B, but I dont believe I can fairly say that it should have done 
so. Ms B knew, or ought to have known, that the agreement had come to an end and that 
the car needed to be returned. The primary duty was on her to return it, not on Suzuki to 
collect it. I dont believe that Suzuki in any way prevented that from happening or obstructed 
Ms Bs attempts to return the car.    
For these reasons I believe that the payment of £75 is sufficient to resolve Ms Bs complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Suzuki Financial Services Limited to do anything more 
to resolve Ms Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman