DRN-2899516
The complaint
Miss J complains about a legal fee that was applied to her debt by Shoosmiths LLP.
 
What happened
Shoosmiths was instructed to contact Miss J about a debt by another business. In February 
2020 Shoosmiths sent Miss J a Letter of Claim that explained it intended to pursue legal 
action to recover the debt on behalf of the owner and asked her to get in touch. 
On 26 February 2020 Miss J contacted Shoosmiths and advised the Citizens Advice Bureau 
(CAB) was assisting her and would be in touch shortly. Shoosmiths says it shouldve placed 
a 30 day hold on Miss Js account following her call but didnt. 
As a result, on 18 March 2020 Shoosmiths started court proceedings and applied a £85 legal 
fee to Miss Js debt. On 19 March 2020 Shoosmiths received contact from CAB and wrote to 
it the following day to confirm collections activity was on hold. 
Over the following months, Miss J instructed another organisation to assist her and agreed a 
repayment plan. 
In December 2020 Miss J complained about the legal fee applied by Shoosmiths. In its final 
response, Shoosmiths agreed the £85 fee shouldnt have been applied and refunded it. 
Shoosmiths also offered Miss J £25 to apologise. Miss J referred her complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Shoosmiths had dealt with the 
complaint fair so didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss J asked to appeal, so her complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background to Miss Js case as all parties 
broadly agree about what happened. I can see that a fee of £85 was applied to Miss Js 
outstanding balance despite Shoosmiths receiving a letter from CAB. Im pleased that when 
Miss J complained Shoosmiths refunded the fee and apologised. Shoosmiths has explained 
it shouldve placed collections activity on hold for 30 days after Miss J contacted it on 26 
February 2020. 
As Shoosmiths has apologised and refunded the fee, theres no loss to Miss J. I understand 
Miss J had to raise the issue with Shoosmiths before the fee was reversed and agree there 
was a degree of inconvenience caused. In its final response to Miss J, Shoosmiths 
apologised for the error and offered £25. 
Ive considered how the issues raised impacted Miss J. As Ive said above, I agree there was 
some inconvenience. Im satisfied £25 fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused to Miss J 
in connection with raising this issue with Shoosmiths. As Im satisfied Shoosmiths has 
refunded the £85 and made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im 
not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Shoosmiths LLP has already made 
an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman