DRN-2321264
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr J took out a credit card through Barclays in 2001. In 2003, during a telephone call with 
Barclays, PPI was added to Mr Js account.
Mr J complained to Barclays that PPI was mis-sold. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint. 
But, it did refund him the commission he paid that was above 50% of the cost of the policy. 
Mr J didnt accept Barclays offer of settlement and referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Js complaint and did not uphold it. Mr J didnt agree, so his 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, I have to make a decision 
about what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr J said, in summary, PPI wasnt explained to him, he didnt need or want it and he 
wasnt told about the costs and benefits of PPI. He said that if he had been given clearer 
information, likely he wouldnt have taken out PPI.
Barclays said that it recommended this policy to Mr J. Mr J didnt think this was an 
advised sale. I have proceeded on the basis that this policy was recommended to Mr J. 
Ive done that because, in those circumstances, Barclays also had the additional 
responsibility of considering whether the policy was suitable for him. Whether this was an 
advised sale or not, Barclays also had to give him enough clear and fair information 
about it so that he could make informed choice about whether he wanted to buy it.
The policy was sold on the phone, some time after the credit card was taken out. So, I 
think Mr J wouldve understood PPI was an optional extra, and he didnt have to have it 
to use Barclays credit facility. Ive also seen the call script that Barclays was using at the 
time to sell PPI to customers. I think this made it clear that PPI was optional, and that the 
customer didnt have to take it out.
I havent seen anything to make me think, that more likely than not, Barclays wouldnt 
have been using a script like that when it sold the PPI to Mr J. I think it probably did use a 
script like this. So, based on everything Ive seen, I think it more likely that Mr J was told 
PPI was optional, but chose to take it out, knowing he didnt have to.
Ive considered whether the policy was suitable for Mr Js needs at the time and I think it 
was. He appeared eligible to take out PPI given his age, work circumstances and 
residency. Mr Js employer changed as a result of a company take over, but Im satisfied 
that he was in continuous employment and therefore this wouldnt have affected his 
ability to claim under the policy.
The policy appeared affordable and the cost of it appeared separately on his statements, so I 
think it wouldve been clear to him what he was paying for the cover.
I cant see that Mr J was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness 
and unemployment. Mr J said his family couldve helped with his repayments. I accept they 
may have wanted to, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed much reliance on this. 
He said he wouldve been eligible for redundancy pay and some sickness cover, covering 
him for less than 3 months of his pay. Mr J also said he had a modest amount of savings 
which wouldve covered him for around 6 months. The policy wouldve paid out for longer. 
So, I think it couldve provided Mr J with useful protection, in his circumstances.
Mr J also mentioned some other insurances, including life and critical illness cover. But, as 
these didnt provide Mr J with duplicate protection, I cant see that these made PPI 
inappropriate.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been, particularly in relation to the costs. But he chose to take it out - so it looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr Js said but these points dont change my decision. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Barclays has repaid Mr J the commission it received that was more than 50% of the 
cost of the policy. I think this is a fair response in the circumstances and therefore I 
make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Kim ParsonsOmbudsman