DRN-4045895
The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds bank PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved her overdraft 
application and later went on to increase the limit. 
What happened
Miss K had a current account with Lloyds and on 11 June 2020 applied for an overdraft 
facility. Miss K made three applications on the same day. The first was for £750, the second 
was for £1,390 and the third was for £1,500. 
Lloyds says the overdraft applications were all assessed online by its system. In support of 
her applications, Miss K said she was earning £1,800 a month with housing costs of £425. 
Lloyds says it carried out a credit search and found Miss K had around £320 of monthly 
credit commitments. Lloyds also used essential living costs of £374 for other day to day 
expenses. Lloyds says the application data indicated Miss K had around £680 a month as 
disposable income. 
Lloyds applied its lending criteria to the applications and approved an overdraft facility with a 
limit of £1,500. 
On 22 June 2020 Miss K applied for an increase to her overdraft facility, taking it to £1,600. 
Again, Lloyds says it reviewed the available information supplied by Miss K and looked at 
her credit file before deciding to approve the increase. 
During 2022 Miss Ks payments from her job stopped crediting her Lloyds account. Lloyds 
ultimately closed the account and recorded a default on Miss Ks credit file. 
Miss K complained that Lloyds had lent irresponsibly when it approved her overdraft 
application and increased the credit limit on multiple occasions. Lloyds sent Miss K a final 
response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Lloyds said it had carried out the relevant 
checks before deciding whether to approve the overdraft and later increase it by £100 to 
£1,600. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ks case. They thought Lloyds had dealt with 
Miss Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss K asked to appeal and 
said Lloyds was giving an incorrect address to one of the credit reference agencies and that 
it had allowed her to increase the overdraft facility multiple times in quick succession. As 
Miss K asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
In this case, Miss K completed three applications for an overdraft facility on 11 June 2020. 
As Ive noted above, Miss K gave Lloyds information about her income and regular 
outgoings. Ive looked at Miss Ks bank statements covering the period in question and I can 
see her income was broadly in line with the figure she gave Lloyds. And I think Lloyds 
reasonably took housing costs or £425 plus general living expenses of £374 into account 
when considering whether to proceed. 
Lloyds also looked at the information on Miss Ks credit file. Ive seen the results and whilst 
Lloyds did find evidence of historic defaults, they were over three years old at the point Miss 
K applied. Lloyds took Miss Ks monthly cost of paying her credit commitments into account 
when applying its lending criteria. 
Lloyds says that based on the information Miss K supplied and her credit file, she had 
around £680 in disposable income each month. And Lloyds has confirmed Miss Ks 
application was correctly applied in line with its lending criteria. 
I understand Miss K made three applications in one day, taking the overdraft limit to £1,500. 
But Im not persuaded that doing so was sufficient to cause Lloyds to decline to proceed. Im 
satisfied that Lloyds did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it approved the 
overdraft limit of £1,500 on 11 June 2020. 
Miss K applied for an increase to £1,600 on 22 June 2020. Again, Lloyds has provided 
evidence to show it considered the information Miss K supplied in the application and looked 
at her credit file. Lloyds has confirmed the overdraft extension was approved in line with its 
lending criteria. I appreciate the increase was requested a short time after the original 
applications were made. But Im satisfied the amount of the increase was modest and that 
Lloyds carried out reasonable checks, in line with what wed normally expect, before 
deciding to proceed. 
In Miss Ks response to the investigator, she said Lloyds had increased her overdraft facility 
on multiple occasions. But the overdraft limit was approved at £1,500 on 11 June 2020 and 
increased to £1,600 on 22 June 2020. I havent seen evidence of further increases above 
that figure on Miss Ks bank statements. 
Miss K recently sent us a copy of her credit file. Whilst I can see there are defaults showing, 
the appear to date from the period after Miss Ks overdraft was approved. And whilst I can 
see Miss K did have outstanding credit with other businesses when her applications to 
Lloyds were made, Im satisfied they were factored into the lending assessments. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss K but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds lent 
irresponsibly in this case. 
When Lloyds responded to Miss Ks complaint it wrote to the wrong address. A follow up 
final response awarded Miss K £200 for the mistake and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied 
£200 fairly reflects Lloyds error, so Im not telling it to do anything else. In response to the 
investigators findings, Miss K said Lloyds was reporting the wrong address to a credit 
reference agency. As that doesnt form part of this complaint, I cant comment in this decision. But if Miss Ks address isnt being correctly recorded she can contact Lloyds to ask 
it to investigate. 
As Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with Miss Ks complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman