DRN-2864892
The complaint
Mr S complains Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) provide poor customer service and 
unnecessarily delayed the transfer of his pension benefits.
What happened
Mr S is represented in his complaint by Mrs S, for ease I will refer to Mr S throughout my 
decision.
Mr S held a pension with Aegon and received a letter in November 2018 explaining his 
retirement date, in April 2019, was approaching and he should start to consider his options. 
The value of the pension at this time was just over £87,000 and the pension plan had a 
guaranteed minimum pension (GMP).
On 7 December 2018, Aegon issued Mr S with the first of a number of illustrations. It said a 
tax-free cash lump sum of £7,778.32 was available and explained Mr S could contact a third-
party provider, L&G should he wish to take an annuity.
Aegon had taken a commercial decision to no longer provide annuities but had instead 
reached an agreement with L&G to provide annuities for its customers.
On 25 April 2019, Aegon sent Mr S another letter explaining the cost of the annuity was 
more than the plan value and as such there would no longer be a tax-free cash lump sum 
option.
What followed were protracted discussions and communications between Mr S, his financial 
adviser and Aegon in an attempt to provide the information Aegon said it needed to process 
Mr Ss request to transfer his pension benefits to L&G in order to commence his annuity.
On 4 October 2019, Aegon processed the transfer, sent the funds to L&G to arrange and 
pay the annuity. As previously stated, there was no tax-free cash lump sum available.
When L&G made the first annuity payment, Mr S returned it as he was very unhappy with 
the whole experience and was unsure if accepting the annuity payment would impact the 
complaint, he made to Aegon.
Aegon issued its final response and acknowledged it had provided poor customer service 
and there had been delays. It said some of those delays were as a result of awaiting 
information from L&G, but it accepted it could have done more and offered to pay £500 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Mr S remained dissatisfied. He wanted Aegon to honour the original quote it gave in July 
2019 which included a tax-free cash lump sum and back date the payment to April 2019, 
which was when he should have commenced his annuity payments. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr S. He could see Aegon had acknowledged it had 
provided poor customer service. He sympathised with Mr S but explained he couldnt ask 
Aegon to honour a quotation it had already said was made in error. He also explained that 
as the funds were transferred to L&G in October 2019, he could only look at Aegons actions 
up to that point. He agreed there had been unnecessary delays but felt the offer of £500 was 
fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset this matter had caused and so 
didnt ask Aegon to do anything further.
Mr S disagreed. He feels there are a number of aspects to his complaint that have not been 
understood fully or acknowledged. These include:
1. Why the delays Aegon has acknowledged should be compensated by £500 when in 
effect he lost out on six months annuity pension payments which would have totaled 
over £1000
2. Why this service didnt explain he could take his annuity payments without it affecting 
his complaint which he feel has caused further delays.
3. Why Mr S has received a letter from L&G suggesting it has yet to receive the funds 
from Aegon.
Mr S asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as the adjudicator for broadly the 
same reasons.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Aegon. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Theres no dispute here that Aegon has caused delays to the transfer, it has acknowledged it 
could and should have provided a better service. The question I have to consider is what 
impact that had, did Mr S suffer a financial loss or a loss of expectation as a result and if so, 
what would be a fair and reasonable way to put things right. There are also two parties 
involved here and both has said the other caused delay at different times during the course 
of the events that led to this complaint.
Mr S has brought this complaint against Aegon and so I can only consider Aegons actions in 
reaching a conclusion. Im also not able to consider any complaint Mr S raises with this 
service and what he was or wasnt told in relation to this complaint. That should be raised as 
a service complaint and a separate matter.
So, for the avoidance of doubt I will be considering the actions Aegon took or didnt take 
between the initial contact and the completion of the transfer of funds in October 2019. After 
that time the responsibility falls with the annuity provider, namely L&G.Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
So, should Aegon honour the illustration it provided in July 2019 and backdate the annuity to 
April 2019 as Mr S has requested?
Its important to establish Aegons responsibilities here. It is the pension provider and was 
responsible for providing details of the pension value and any tax-free cash that Mr S may 
be entitled to. In order to calculate this, it needed information from L&G regarding how much 
the annuity would cost to provide.
Theres no doubt here that the communication between Aegon and L&G fell short of 
expectations on a number of occasions and that both Mr S and his adviser were given 
incorrect and misleading information. Aegon has said L&G didnt provide a correct date of 
birth for Mr Ss spouse until June 2019. It then became clear that there were insufficient 
funds to meet the GMP and as there were no excess funds, a tax-free cash lump sum was 
not available. For that reason, I do not believe that it would be either fair or reasonable to 
require Aegon to provide the tax-free lump sum. He is not entitled to that sum; Aegons error, 
whilst undoubtedly frustrating for Mr S, does not create either in law or equity an entitlement 
to the incorrectly calculated tax-free cash.
But, Aegon did supply an illustration that indicated that tax free cash was available. I dont 
consider that it was unreasonable for the adviser and Mr S to have assumed that the 
illustration was correct, and I can see no reason as to why they would have believed 
otherwise. It is not for Mr S or his adviser to identify errors in Aegons calculations; they were 
entitled to rely on the figures supplied to them by Aegon or to understand the communication 
breakdown between Aegon and L&G that seemed to be going on in the background.
Whilst I understand there has been a loss of expectation here, and notwithstanding the 
sheer frustration Mr S and his adviser clearly expressed in the repeated emails to Ae
gon , the pension transfer was completed on 4 October 2019 and so the annuity  payments 
were only able to commence from this point, so I cant reasonably ask Aegon to backdate 
the annuity payments to April or honour an illustration provided in error.
I sympathise with Mr S, what should have been a relatively straightforward process has been 
delayed and caused him undoubted frustration, trouble and upset. Im afraid I cant comment 
on why Mr S chose not to take the annuity payments from when they were available to him. 
If he feels this was in some part down to information provided or not by this service, this 
must be raised as a separate matter, but in any event, I dont find it fair or reasonable to hold 
Aegon responsible for his decision not to do so.
I have clarified Mr Ss funds are held by L&G and I understand he is in the process of 
making his annuity arrangements.
I have considered carefully the redress offered for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused and whilst I have no wish to underplay the frustration this matter has caused, I find 
£500 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mr S will 
be disappointed but Im not going to ask Aegon to increase it further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) to:Pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman