DRN-3775003
The complaint
Mrs D complains Avantia Insurance Limited mis-sold her buildings insurance. And about how 
it has dealt with her complaint.
All references to Avantia also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I cant consider and why
I can see Avantia have offered Mrs D compensation for a delay in answering her complaint. 
DISP 2.3.1R says The ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory 
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the 
following activities. 
Regulated activities are a specified list of activities that the Financial Conduct Authority 
regulate and authorise financial businesses to carry out.  I wont repeat the full list here as it 
contains a large number of activities. But having considered that list it doesnt include 
complaint handling. So, I wont be commenting on this further in my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs D has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive 
read and carefully considered everything shes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. 
I dont intend this as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mrs D, and by Avantia, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy excludes cover for flat roofs, or damage caused by its failure, unless there 
is proof it has been inspected and maintained at least every ten years by a registered 
builder. Mrs D feels this was not made clear to her during the sale of the policy. 
Mrs D took out the policy online, on a non-advised basis. This means Avantia was 
responsible for providing information to Mrs D for her to make an informed decision 
on whether the policy was suitable for her needs.
Ive looked at the screen shot of information Mrs D would have had access to when 
taking the policy out. I can see before proceeding with the policy, there was a link 
that gave access to an insurance document  and to proceed it asks the buyer to 
confirm they have read these documents. 
This document sets out what is insured and what is not insured. The document is two 
pages, and I can see the exclusion is on the first page. I think it is clearly worded and 
I think it wouldve been accessible.
So having considered the above, I think Avantia did enough to bring the exclusion to 
Mrs Ds attention. 
While I acknowledge Mrs Ds comments that it might not be in other policies shes 
highlighted, Its not an unusual term. And Ive not seen anything that persuades me 
this term was unique to Mrs Ds policy, so I dont think Avantia had to do anything 
more than it did to highlight this to Mrs D.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman