DRN-1758661
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that HBSC UK Bank Plc didnt notify them in advance that the 
fixed rate deal on two of their mortgages was due to end. This resulted in their monthly 
payments increasing. They also complain that when they attended a meeting to change 
the rate of interest on their mortgages HSBC didnt action this immediately.
What happened
On 30 April 2018, Mr and Mrs Vs fixed rate deal on their mortgage accounts ending xx36 
and xx16 expired. Mrs V says HSBC didnt notify them in advance about this and it 
resulted in them paying interest at a higher rate when the fixed rate expired.
In contrast, Mrs V told us that when the fixed rate on another mortgage account they held 
with HSBC ending xx55 was due to expire, HSBC notified her in advance by email, text 
message and letter.
They also complain that they met with a mortgage advisor at a branch of HSBC on 17 
November 2018 to arrange a new rate on their mortgage accounts ending xx36, xx16 and 
xx55 which they were told would be effective immediately but this wasnt actioned until 
early December 2018. This meant they were charged interest at the original rate rather 
than the new rate theyd agreed.
Mr and Mrs V complained to HSBC. It said it sent them a letter at the end of January 2018 
through internet banking to explain that the fixed rate deal on their two mortgages would be 
coming to an end. It explained that following customer feedback it changed its 
communication policy and this is why it sent a letter in October 2018 prior to the expiry of the 
fixed rate for their mortgage account ending xx55.
HSBC said that the sending of an expiry reminder letter is a courtesy only and it remains 
the responsibility of their customers to be aware of the end date of any fixed rate deal 
and this information was clearly communicated in their mortgage  documentation.
Unhappy  with HSBCs  response,  Mr and Mrs V referred  their complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
HSBC had notified them in advance of the expiry of their fixed rate by sending them a letter 
through online banking on 30 January 2018. HSBC also sent a follow up letter to their home 
address on 31 January 2018 which explained that a document had been sent to online 
banking and which remained unread.
Our investigator thought the letter sent to their home address was enough to make Mrs 
V aware shed been sent a communication from HSBC via online banking and which 
required her attention. And she thought HSBC had taken reasonable steps to make 
Mrs V aware of the rate change.
In terms of the delay in implementing the rate change, HSBC accepted that due to human 
error the paperwork wasnt sent off following the meeting and this meant the original 
payments were collected at the beginning of December 2018 rather than the new amounts. 
Our investigator noted that HSBC had refunded the additional interest paid during this 
period and it had also offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill which she thought was fair and 
reasonable and reflected the upset caused due to HSBCs error and its delay in 
implementing the rate change.
Mrs V disagrees with the investigators view. She says HSBC is responsible for a catalogue 
of errors, and she would like the matter reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Notification of fixed rate deal ending
Ive seen copies of the mortgage offers for Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage accounts ending xx16 
and xx36. Both documents make clear that their fixed rate would come to an end on 30 April 
2018 and revert to HSBCs variable rate after that date. The mortgage offers were signed by 
Mr and Mrs V so I think they will have been aware of the expiry date of their fixed rate offer 
when they signed their mortgage offers.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs V may not have remembered the expiry date two years later 
but based on the information available to me I think HSBC did enough to notify 
Mr and Mrs V in advance that the fixed rates on their mortgage accounts ending xx16 and 
xx36 were due to come to an end.
HSBC has provided copies of emails it sent to Mr V dated 30 January 2018 in which it 
explained that the fixed rate for their mortgages ending xx16 and xx36 were due to expire 
on 30 April 2018. It also provided confirmation that Mrs V was sent an email in relation to 
their mortgage account ending xx36.
The email also explained the options available to them going forwards. HSBC said these 
emails were sent to My Documents through online banking. Ive also seen that a further 
letter was sent to Mr Vs My Documents on 1 May 2018 and this confirmed that their 
interest rate had increased to HSBCs variable rate following the expiry of their fixed rates.
HSBC has provided confirmation that Mr and Mrs V were both registered for online banking. 
HSBCs Digital Banking Terms say once you register for digital banking, we may place 
documents in the My documents facility. We may stop sending certain correspondence by 
post so its important you check My documents regularly. If weve got an up-to-date email 
address for you, well send an email each time we place something new in My documents 
and wont change or delete them. So I cant say HSBC treated them unfairly by notifying 
them using their online banking account.
In addition to the letters it sent through online banking HSBC also sent a follow-on letter to 
Mr V and also separately to Mrs V at their home address on 31 January 2018. In this letter 
HSBC explained that it had sent correspondence to their My Documents folder which 
hadnt yet been opened. It asked them to log on to online banking to read the documents.
I can understand why Mrs V thinks it would have been better had HSBC sent a copy of the 
mortgage expiry rate letter to their home address  rather than telling them they had 
unopened correspondence in their online banking account and to log in to their account. However, I think HSBC did enough to make them aware that important correspondence had 
been sent to My documents which required their attention.
I appreciate Mrs Vs comments that HSBC had previously sent her letters asking her to 
check her online account only to discover that the documents werent important. 
However, in the circumstances of this complaint I agree with the investigator that the 
letter sent by HSBC had as its heading in bold you have important documents to read 
online. Im therefore satisfied that this made clear that the documents it sent to their 
online banking account were important.
After the expiry of Mr and Mrs Vs fixed rate offer I appreciate that  they paid interest at 
HSBCs standard variable rate for a while until they took out new fixed rates but for the 
reasons Ive explained above I think HSBC treated them fairly and I dont think it needed 
to do any more than it did to bring to their attention that their fixed rates were due to 
expire.
Rate change
HSBC accepts that following a meeting on 17 November 2018 - in which Mr and Mrs V 
arranged to change the rate of interest on their mortgage accounts ending xx36, xx16 
and xxx55  it didnt send off their paperwork due to human error. This meant that Mr and 
Mrs V were charged interest at the old rate rather than the new rate theyd agreed.
HSBC has confirmed that it refunded the additional interest they paid during this period 
and it follows that this is fair because it puts them in the position they would have been in 
had the error not occurred. HSBC also offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this 
is fair and reasonable and reflects the upset caused to them due to HSBCs delay in 
implementing the rate change. It follows that I will not be asking HSBC to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman