DRN-2278475
The complaint
Mr T complains about the customer service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
Mr T says he tried to pay a cheque into his account, but when he arrived at his local branch 
it was closed. He says he then tried to pay in the cheque using the Barclays app, but was 
unable to as he didnt know what to enter in the section asking for a statement reference. 
He says he called Barclays to query this, but the wait time was too long. He says he had to 
visit another branch to pay in the cheque, which he found inconvenient. 
Mr T complained to Barclays about not being informed of a change in branch opening times 
and due to the wait times on the phone. Barclays looked into the complaint and said that it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said due to the pandemic it had to adapt branch 
opening hours in order to keep both its customers and staff safe. And it said the delays in 
answering the phone were due to a higher demand caused by the pandemic. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had treated Mr T unfairly. This was because he didnt 
think Barclays was at fault for Mr T visiting a branch when it was closed. And because the 
call wait times couldnt be helped. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to give an impartial view on this complaint. I must therefore tell Mr T that Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and so wont be asking Barclays to do 
more to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays has explained that it adapted its branch opening hours in order to keep its 
customers and staff safe. This is a step that many businesses have taken, in line with 
government guidelines. Mr T felt he shouldve been made aware of this. But I dont think 
Barclays needed to notify him personally. In my view updating its website was enough.
Mr T has said there was differing information about opening hours on the internet. I accept 
there probably was. But Barclays cant be held responsible for information contained on 
websites which are not its own and therefore not within its control.  
Barclays has explained call waiting times have increased, as demand has increased. I 
accept that this meant Mr T was unable to get the information he needed to pay in the 
cheque using the app in a timely manner. This was unfortunate. However, in the context of 
the pandemic, I dont think increased waiting times are out of the ordinary. In any case, Mr T 
was able to visit a different branch the day after to pay in the cheque, so I think the impact 
was minimal
Mr T has raised various concerns about the way his complaint was handled. But as 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, I cant comment on those. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman