DRN-4363911
The complaint
Mr E has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd (James Hay). Mr E used monies transferred into his James Hay SIPP to purchase 
shares in Elysian Fuels. Mr E complains, with the help of a representative, that James Hay 
failed to undertake due diligence in respect of the Elysian Fuels shares, particularly in 
relation to the structure of the investment and the value of the shares. Mr E says that James 
Hays own risk management protocols and internal controls relating to the purchase of 
unlisted shares were breached. And, that James Hays actions breached the regulators 
Principles for Businesses in numerous ways and failed to comply with its legal and 
regulatory duties, HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) requirements and to treat Mr E fairly.
What happened
Mr Es SIPP application form recorded that he was an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
and had annual earnings of around £100,000. The adviser listed on the form was the 
business he worked for at the time. 
Mr Es James Hay SIPP was subsequently established and a Selftrade Execution Only 
account was set up. 
A share certificate was issued on 16 May 2013 confirming Mr E was the registered holder of 
110,000 Elysian Fuels shares. 
Mr E signed the paperwork to complete the sale of the Elysian Fuels shares he held in his 
personal capacity to his James Hay SIPP on 20 May 2013. Amongst other things, Mr E 
completed a statement for Self-Certified Sophisticated Investors. As part of this Mr E was 
asked to explain how he became aware of the proposed investment and to confirm he 
understood that as an unregulated investment Elysian Fuels could not be marketed to retail 
clients in the UK. In response to this, Mr E said: 
I was introduced to the share investment by my accountant and solicitor, as an IFA, I 
fully understand that this is an unregulated investment and cannot be marketed to 
retail clients in the UK.
The stock transfer form was also dated 20 May 2013. 
According to the transaction history of the SIPP, monies were paid out for the Elysian Fuels 
shares that are the subject of this complaint on 25 June 2013. Whereas a letter sent to Mr 
Es adviser indicates that the transaction took place on 13 June 2013. That transaction is the 
subject of a separate complaint. 
A subsequent share certificate was issued on 8 November 2013 confirming Mr E was the 
registered holder of an additional 160,000 Elysian Fuel shares. 
Mr E signed the paperwork to complete the sale of those Elysian Fuels shares to his SIPP 
on 14 November 2013. As part of this Mr E signed a declaration which, amongst other 
things, said: 
You should not invest in unquoted shares if you do not understand or are not 
comfortable with the extent of your exposure to the risks. You should carefully 
consider whether such investments are suitable for you in light of your experience, 
objectives, risk appetite, financial resources and other relevant circumstances. 
And 
I accept that if the investment proceeds on the basis of the information provided by 
me in this questionnaire and such information is not true, accurate and complete, that 
this may result in the imposition of an unauthorised payment charge, unauthorised 
payment surcharge, scheme sanction charge or other tax charge or penalty on my 
SIPP by HM Revenue & Customs.
The purchase of these shares is the transaction that is the subject of this complaint. 
This arrangement was later challenged by HMRC as an unauthorised payment out of the 
SIPP and Mr E has ended up being found to owe an unauthorised payment surcharge and 
interest to HMRC in relation to the transaction that is the subject of this complaint.
Background to this complaint
Unhappy with what had happened Mr E complained to James Hay. James Hay issued its 
final response to his complaint but Mr E remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. 
James Hay responded making further submissions, it said: 
Mr E was an IFA and a director of an advisory firm which advised numerous clients to 
invest in Elysian Fuels and sell these shares to their SIPPs. 
He had held several positions in the financial advice sector and held a variety of 
controlled functions including CF1 Director, Investment Adviser and Compliance 
Oversight. 
He advised clients in relation to Elysian Fuels. 
Mr E, given his background and professional expertise, would most likely or at least 
should have fully understood how the investment in Elysian Fuels operated and 
understood the associated risks on the basis that he provided advice to others in a 
professional capacity about this investment.
He would have had a good understanding of pension legislation and the 
circumstances that would make a payment unauthorised, including the tax 
implications of this. 
Mr E should have been reasonably aware that the release of his pension monies 
could have been regarded as an unauthorised payment because: 
oThe share purchase had been mainly financed by way of a limited recourse 
loan (which he did not disclose to James Hay at the time); and 
oHe then sold the shares to his SIPP for £1 per share which released his 
pension funds before he had reached the minimum age of 55 when he could 
legitimately withdraw funds from his pension. If James Hay had refused to accept Mr Es application, he was sufficiently 
experienced and knowledgeable to have found a way to make the transaction 
happen anyway. And, would likely be in the same position as he now is. 
Mr E disagreed and his representatives made further submissions on his behalf. Briefly, they 
said: 
The extent of James Hays role: 
oJames Hays role was key, most IFAs who recommended secondary planning 
recommended James Hay, advisers placed reliance on the due diligence James 
Hay had completed over a number of years and its assurances that the Elysian 
Fuels investment was permitted in its schemes. 
oJames Hay provided credibility to the Elysian Fuels scheme and ensured the 
process was as straight forward as possible for advisers. It is reasonable to put 
faith in professional entities that have controls and regulatory requirements to 
protect the interests of the customer. 
oThese transactions wouldnt have gone ahead but for James Hays involvement 
and that is a view shared by each of the advisers and investors who dealt with 
James Hay and Elysian Fuels. 
oJames Hay notified IFAs, such as the firm Mr E worked for, that it had completed 
the necessary due diligence to authorise releases of Elysian Fuels, giving 
advisers confidence to recommend the Elysian Fuels investment to their clients. 
oEach Elysian Fuels investor had two regulated entities confirm that the Elysian 
Fuels shares were worth £1. 
oMr E was treated as an advised client for the purposes of authorising the Elysian 
Fuels transaction. And, James Hay continues to treat him as such. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is, in other cases, saying James Hay failed to 
carry out sufficient checks on the Elysian Fuels scheme. And saying James Hay 
should compensate other consumers, any reduction in this liability would be of 
financial benefit to James Hay. 
Mr E wasnt treated any differently to other investors and James Hays processes 
werent amended in light of his background and he shouldnt now be treated 
differently to other investors. 
Mr E reasonably relied on the due diligence James Hay had undertaken, that it 
confirmed that the investment was acceptable to be held in a pension and on the fact 
that two regulated entities confirmed that the value of the Elysian Fuels stock was £1. 
Mr E didnt undertake any due diligence when making the decision to invest 
personally and wasnt required to do so. He wasnt aware that the shares werent 
worth £1 and categorically wouldnt have proceeded with the transaction had he 
known.
It wouldnt have made sense for Mr E to have proceeded had he known the 
transaction would be viewed as an unauthorised payment, he wouldnt have 
proceeded if he had known this to be the case. 
James Hay is a large and reputable SIPP operator. It held itself out as having carried 
out due diligence on, and as being expert on, the Elysian Fuels scheme. Mr E was 
entitled to trust it.
It is also wrong to say Mr E would have gone ahead with the Elysian Fuels scheme 
investment, or something similar, if James Hay had refused his application. He only 
made the investment because James Hay approved it.  
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this case was passed to me for review. I sent my 
provisional decision to the parties to this complaint, explaining why I didnt think it should be upheld. I said that I would consider anything either party wanted to add. Mr E disagreed with 
my decision and made further submissions, in summary, he said: 
He wasnt aware that the sale of the Elysian Fuels shares to his SIPP would be 
considered an unauthorised payment. 
James Hays due diligence and involvement in the scheme over a number of years 
provided him with comfort that this was a bona fide transaction. 
It wouldnt make sense for him to intentionally take part in a transaction that would 
result in significant tax penalties, in his clients losing substantial sums of money and 
potentially put his business and livelihood at risk. 
Mr E was in a unique position as an adviser that recommended his clients invest in 
the Elysian Fuels scheme and weve found that given his specific background he 
ought to have been aware of the tax risks involved. However, it has been found that 
James Hay undertook insufficient due diligence when permitting transactions in 
Elysian Fuels shares within its SIPPs. And, given James Hays role in connection 
with the Elysian Fuels scheme to advisers and that Mr E wouldnt have been aware 
of this scheme but for its involvement, it isnt fair and reasonable that he rather than 
James Hay should suffer these losses. 
James Hay didnt make any further submissions at this stage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my findings remain as set out in my provisional decision. Ive largely 
repeated these below. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the parties to this complaint have provided detailed 
submissions to support their position and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. 
Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the 
fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The Elysian Fuels scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement. It involved buying 
shares largely with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to a SIPP so that 
funds were paid out of the pension scheme to the investor. This is, as Ive said, an unusual 
arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it. It found that the 
payment was an unauthorised payment and imposed a surcharge and interest.
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme. Sometimes people 
invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme. And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has been 
more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.Weve been provided with redacted correspondence from HMRC in which it said in relation 
to the Elysian Fuels scheme that: 
Elysian Fuels is an undisclosed mass marketed multi use tax avoidance scheme 
which HMRC considers one of the main purposes of the arrangements was to secure 
a tax advantage. You have entered into a scheme where the tax benefit exceeds the 
potential return from the underlying business plan. You did not pay a cash 
contribution of the purported £1 per share and the loan finance was provided on 
uncommercial terms in addition the loan finance was never in your control being paid 
directly to the special purpose vehicle. The funding of the whole scheme is of a 
circular nature and the funds were never available for the underlying purpose. 
The promoter of the scheme has recently confirmed that no formal valuation of the 
shares was carried out and did not consider any third parties had sufficient 
information or access to documentation to carry out independent valuations. There 
was a valuation of the underlying business assets which were owned by another 
entity but neither the Elysian Fuels LLP nor the Special Purpose Vehicle funding 
company owned any tangible assets. This is a complex valuation issue and HMRCs 
initial view is the shares had no value when the transaction took place.
If an investor chooses to invest in a scheme understanding and accepting the risk HMRC 
might challenge their scheme and might impose tax consequences upon them, is it fair and 
reasonable for such an investor to complain later if HMRC does challenge and does impose 
those consequences? That is, in effect, the issue here because, like the investigator, I 
consider that Mr E, because of his own professional expertise, will have realised the Elysian 
Fuels scheme was unusual and was at risk of challenge from HMRC. Mr E was an IFA at the 
time of the transaction and the business he worked for had advised a number of its clients to 
invest in Elysian Fuels. I consider that Mr E will have had a good understanding of taxation 
matters, and of the possibility of HMRC questioning a scheme involving unusual features 
such as the Elysian Fuels scheme in this case. 
Mr E will have done a number of things when he was weighing up the risks involved. And 
that will have, or should have, included his own assessment (made in conjunction with his 
financial advisers if they were advising him on the matter and not just arranging it on his 
instructions) of the Elysian Fuels scheme as a whole  not just the share price  set against 
his professional understanding of taxation matters. I accept that he may also have taken into 
account the fact that James Hay was prepared to allow members of its SIPPs to invest in the 
Elysian Fuels scheme (or previous versions of it). But does that mean that the risk Mr E 
knew, or should have known, he was taking should fairly and reasonably transfer to James 
Hay? In my view it does not. 
James Hay was not Mr Es adviser. It did not advise him that taking those risks was suitable 
for him. Mr E made that decision for himself, or in conjunction with his advisers. But in my 
view, in determining his complaint against James Hay only, that was a decision Mr E was 
qualified and experienced to reasonably make for himself (either by himself or in conjunction 
with his financial advisers), and it is fair and reasonable that he bears the consequences of 
that decision. 
I understand that Mr E feels strongly that it is not fair and reasonable that he bears the 
consequences of the transaction that is the subject of this complaint going ahead and not 
James Hay, given its role in the transaction. However, I remain of the view that, in the 
unusual circumstances of Mr Es case, even if James Hay did not carry out adequate due 
diligence on the Elysian Fuels scheme (and I make no finding on that point), it is not fair and 
reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr E. And so, in the particular circumstances 
of his case, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint against James Hay Administration 
Company Ltd and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman