DRN-2431196
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) has treated him 
after a change in his circumstances has left him unable to repay the money he owes.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both sides so I wont go into too much 
detail here. Mr F has two accounts with Barclaycard with a joint balance of around £15,000.
In January 2019 he suffered an accident which led to him being unable to work and his 
corresponding reduction in income eventually meant he could no longer meet his contractual 
monthly repayments. At some point after mid-2020 Mr F asked Barclaycard for assistance. It 
considered Mr Fs income and expenditure and medical evidence and agreed to:
Permanently suspend all interest and charges
Confirmed no payment was due and it wouldnt pursue Mr F for the debt while his 
circumstances remained the same
Reported the account in default and back dated this to December 2019 when Mr F 
stopped making regular payments to the account 
Periodically review the account and Mr Fs circumstances
Mr F didnt feel this was enough as all his other creditors had agreed to write off what he 
owed. His representative explained the accident had had a severe impact on his mental 
health and Barclaycard actions didnt offer any assurance it wouldnt pursue him for the debt 
in future. He was also concerned Barclaycard refused to guarantee the accounts would 
never be passed to debt collectors and made a complaint to Barclaycard asking it to 
reconsider its position.
Barclaycard responded and explained its position hadnt changed as Mr F didnt meet its 
criteria for a full write off of the debt. It confirmed if more medical information came to light it 
would be happy to review this. Mr F brought the complaint to our service to consider and our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt that overall, Barclaycard had acted in line 
with what we would expect.
Mr F didnt feel this was fair. Whilst he accepted Barclaycard wasnt prepared to write off the 
debt completely he felt it should guarantee the debt wouldnt be passed to a third party to be 
pursued. He also felt that despite the fact he was particularly vulnerable in light of the impact 
his accident had had on his mental health, Barclaycard hadnt treated him any differently to 
any other customer who was unable to repay a debt and it should do more. 
As Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a borrower is in financial difficulties, the relevant rules require a lender to pay due 
regard to their circumstances and treat them fairly. This includes considering whether 
options like suspending interest, reducing repayments or suspending collection activity are 
appropriate.  And its also considered good industry practice to think about whether writing 
off the debt in full is fair and reasonable in the circumstances if theres no reasonable 
prospect of it ever being repaid. But theres no set actions a lender needs to take as how it 
approaches a customer in financial difficulty should be tailored to the individuals 
circumstances. 
In this case, Mr F has raised specific concerns about Barclaycards decision not to write off 
the debt and whether its done enough given hes a vulnerable customer. So Ive addressed 
these specific points when considering whether Barclaycards treatment of Mr F on the 
whole was fair and reasonable.
Should Barclaycard have written off the debt?
Upon learning about the change in Mr Fs circumstances, Barclaycard requested further 
information in order to consider things, including information about Mr Fs financial and 
medical circumstances. This is what Id have expected it to do before making any decisions 
about the debt.
Barclaycard has explained it reviewed this in line with its internal policies around writing off 
debt. And although it didnt doubt the severity of the situation, it didnt feel it had been given 
anything that showed Mr F wouldnt be able to return to any kind of occupation or that his 
current financial position couldnt change in the future. So it didnt feel at that stage it had 
enough to say there was no reasonable prospect of him ever repaying the debt such that 
debt write off was appropriate. 
This isnt to say that Barclaycard believes Mr Fs financial position will change or that what 
hes told Barclaycard isnt accurate. It just means it would like to keep the option to review 
the situation in future. It currently plans to do so every 12 months in addition to reviewing any 
new information Mr F provides which I think is a reasonable timeframe. Unless his situation 
changes, Barclaycard says he wont be pursued for the debt by it or any other party and as 
charges and interest have been permanently suspended the debt wont increase. Overall, I 
think the decision not to write off the debt at this stage is reasonable.
Should Barclaycard guarantee the accounts wont be pursued in future?
I understand Mr Fs concern is that currently hes not been given any assurances about the 
future. In particular, Barclaycard has refused to guarantee the debt will never be passed to a 
third party company that will pursue the debt. Barclaycard has explained to our service it 
wont offer this guarantee because the account will be under review periodically and if 
Mr Fs circumstances change in the future it might once again expect payment for the debt 
and contact Mr F about this or sell it to a third party. 
But, its also said that while Mr F is considered a vulnerable consumer, as he is now due to 
the impact the situation is having on his mental health, the accounts will remain with a 
specialist team. While the accounts remain with this team it seems that he wont be pursued, and the debt wont be passed to a third party. So again, whilst it cant guarantee this wont 
change in future, while Mr Fs circumstances are what they are now this situation seemingly 
wont change. Whilst I understand Mr F would like more reassurance than this, I think in the 
circumstances this is reasonable.
Barclaycard is entitled to review the situation periodically and as Ive mentioned I think 12 
months is a reasonable time frame. It has also said that if Mr F has any further evidence it 
would like it to consider it would be happy to consider this at any stages. And although I 
have no doubt it does take an emotional toll to discuss his circumstances, Mr F does fairly 
still owe the debt and has an obligation to keep Barclaycard updated if there are any 
changes.
Mr F has said he doesnt think Barclaycard is treating him any differently to any other 
customer in financial difficulties and it isnt giving due consideration to the fact he is 
vulnerable. But I think Barclaycard has taken his individual circumstances, including the fact 
he is vulnerable, into account when dealing with his account. Overall, I think Barclaycard has 
treated Mr F reasonably in light of his financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman