DRN-3085522
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Barclays Bank trading as Barclaycard declined her claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs H purchased a car and paid £3200 of the purchase price using her 
Barclaycard credit card.
Mrs H experienced a knocking noise and contacted the supplying dealer. The supplying 
dealer asked Mrs H to arrange for the car to be inspected. Following the inspection, Mrs H 
tried to exercise her short term right to reject the car, but the supplying dealer refused. It said 
the issue was due to wear and tear but agreed to carry out repairs as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this and arranged an independent inspection of the car. This 
identified a knocking noise which was suspected to be an issue with the suspension. The 
inspection also found damage to the wheel arch liner, the underside and the alloy wheels.
Mrs H was concerned that the car had been in an accident and raised a claim under section 
75 with Barclaycard.
There was a delay in Barclaycard investigating the claim, so Mrs H raised a complaint. 
Barclaycard apologised for the delay and paid compensation of £50. Barclaycard declined 
the section 75 claim but made an offer to cover the cost of repairs if Mrs H provided an 
independent assessment of what repairs were needed.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the outcome and brought her complaint to this service.
Since bringing her complaint to this service, Mrs H has sold the car for £3636. She seeks the 
difference between what she paid for the car (£5500) and the sale price.
Our investigator thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
because of the faults identified at the inspection. She said that Mrs H had exercised her right 
to reject within the first 30 days and accordingly she should be refunded the difference 
between what shed paid for the car and what shed sold it for. The investigator also said that 
Barclaycard should refund the cost of the inspection.
Barclaycard didnt agree. It said the car had been sold to Mrs H with a recent MOT with no 
advisories, and that the first inspection hadnt found an issue with the suspension. It said the 
second inspection, whilst identifying an issue with the suspension, found that the car was fit 
for purpose and safe to drive. Barclaycard said it wouldve arranged for an independent 
inspection of the car if it hadnt been sold.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs Hs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, and that Barclaycards response to the claim under section 
75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods  in this case, the car  must be of satisfactory quality and 
fit for purpose at the point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be 
said to have occurred.
Mrs H hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract. In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, I would 
need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive looked at the inspection reports. The first inspection says that the rattle could be the 
steering rack, but that this has been checked and no fault found. 
The second inspection identified a knocking noise and stated that a strip down of the 
suspension was needed to determine the cause. The inspector found damage to the alloy 
wheels, damage to a wheel arch and that part of the undertray was missing. The second 
inspection includes some photographs. Ive looked at these and they show damage to the 
underside of the car, which I dont think wouldve been easily seen by Mrs H when she 
looked at the car with a view to buying it.
Ive also taken into account the supplying dealers initial response when Mrs h raised 
concerns about the car. it offered to change the steering rack as a preventative measure in 
case there were any issues with it in the future. I dont think its likely that the dealer wouldve 
offered to replace such a significant part of the car unless it thought there was something 
wrong. I dont accept the explanation that a part like a steering rack would be replaced just 
in case. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Both of the inspections identify a knocking noise and the second inspection links this 
noise to the steering rack. I dont agree with Barclaycard that a knocking noise linked to the 
suspension is a minor issue. In my view, this is a significant fault which a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect to experience within the first few days of getting a car.
Ive taken into account what Barclaycard has said about the car having a recent MOT and 
the engineer who carried out the second inspection saying the car was safe to drive. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 doesnt require a car to be unroadworthy in order to be of 
unsatisfactory quality. In other words, its possible for a car to pass a MOT but not be of 
satisfactory quality. 
Putting things right
Because Im satisfied that Mrs H was supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
it follows that Im satisfied that theres been a breach of contract. Mrs H has the right to reject 
the car, because she exercised her short term right to reject. Shes not obliged to accept a 
repair. 
Mrs H has since sold the car, so I cant instruct the business to accept a rejection and refund 
the purchase price. I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for Mrs H to be 
reimbursed the difference between what she paid for the car and what she sold it for, which 
is £1863.99.I can see that Mrs H incurred the cost of obtaining an independent report. The cost of this 
should also be refunded.
Im therefore requiring Barclaycard to:
Refund Mrs H the sum of £1863.99
Refund Mrs H the cost of the inspection £57, plus 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
Because the deposit was paid by credit card, the transaction will need to be unwound as if it 
had never happened. If this leaves a credit balance, Mrs H should be paid 8% simple 
interest per year on this sum from the date of the credit balance to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK plc trading as Barclaycard 
must take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman