DRN-3210264
The complaint
Ms I complained because Nationwide Building Society refused to refund her for an online 
purchase where the merchant refused to refund her.
What happened
On 11 October 2019, Ms I made three online payments to a dietary supplement firm, using 
her Nationwide card. The total was £210.96. The same day, she emailed saying she didnt 
want to go ahead with the purchase, because she felt the pricing and advertising was 
misleading. The seller said she couldnt cancel because the package was already on its way.
On 13 October, Ms I raised a dispute with Nationwide. Nationwide issued a temporary credit, 
while it investigated. It issued a chargeback, which is a scheme under which card refunds 
can be claimed. The section which it used was 13.5, which is that the goods had been 
misrepresented.
On 12 December, Ms I emailed the merchant and said As I have never received this order 
and it has clearly been sent back to you please forward my refund as soon as possible. The 
merchant replied to say it would issue a refund as soon as it received the package. It said 
that any undeliverable packages would be returned automatically, so shed be refunded.
On 27 December, Nationwide told Ms I that the merchant had defended itself against the 
chargeback by providing the terms and conditions of the sale. So it re-debited Ms Is account 
with the disputed £210.96. 
On 29 December, the merchant told Ms I it had never received the return package.
On 3 January 2020, the merchant told Ms I that it couldnt give her a refund because there 
was a chargeback on the account. It asked her to contact Nationwide to get the chargeback 
deleted. Ms I complained to Nationwide on 11 February, and it reissued the letter it had sent 
Ms I confirming it had declined and closed the chargeback in December.
Ms I complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Is complaint. He said that Nationwide should have done more to 
help Ms I recover the money, especially after shed told Nationwide that shed returned the 
goods and the merchant was willing to refund her but couldnt because of the chargeback. 
He said Nationwide could have raised another chargeback with a different dispute code.
Nationwide didnt agree. It said it had raised the chargeback under the section 13.5 
misrepresentation because Ms I had received the goods, but felt shed been misled. It 
explained that Ms I hadnt sent Nationwide the merchants email saying it couldnt issue a 
refund because the chargeback was in progress  shed just asked for confirmation the 
dispute had been declined. It had provided this as shed requested, so she could ask the 
merchant for the refund it had promised. Nationwide said that it believed section 13.5, goods 
being misrepresented, was the best fit for Ms Is situation. Nationwide asked for an 
ombudsman decision.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I recognised that Ms I was frustrated and upset at having tried to 
stop the purchase with the merchant, and having ended up in a situation where she had 
neither the goods not the money. But I explained that my role is to look at whether 
Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably, and whether it should refund Ms I. This service 
cant look at any dispute she may have directly with the merchant here.
Nationwide issued a temporary credit while it investigated the dispute here, which Id expect 
it to do. And it issued a chargeback under section 13.5, which is the section about 
misrepresentation. I considered that was fair, because thats what Ms I said when she asked 
the merchant to cancel her order on 11 October:
 as your pricing/advertising is misleading and I do not wish to deal with your company.
When the merchant provided a defence to the chargeback, Nationwide re-debited the 
disputed amounts on 27 December, and provided a copy of the defence to Ms I. I considered 
it acted fairly here. I accepted that it chose to re-debit the chargeback at that point because it 
considered there was no further reasonable prospect of success, based on what the 
merchant had sent in. Taking into account what the rules say, I considered this was a fair 
decision in the circumstances of this case.    
Chargeback processes arent set by individual financial organisations, but by the card 
schemes, which are the card businesses that run the payment network. I could see why 
Nationwide didnt take the chargeback to the next stage of the chargeback dispute process 
where Ms I hadnt provided new evidence to counter the information which the merchant had 
provided about the authorisation of the transaction.
I also looked at what happened later, early in 2020, when the merchant said at different 
times that it couldnt refund Ms I because of a pending chargeback. At that point the 
chargeback had already been closed. Nationwide reissued the decline letter it had already 
sent, so Ms I could prove to the merchant that there wasnt a live chargeback. I thought this 
was fair, and its hard to see what else Nationwide could have done at that point.
I also noted that the merchant gave another reason for not providing a refund to Ms I  that it 
had never received the products back. I didnt have evidence to show whether or not the 
goods were received back by the merchant. But that issue isnt relevant to whether or not 
Nationwide acted wrongly, because what it was deciding was whether or not there was 
reasonable prospect of success in the chargeback claim for misrepresentation.
I sympathised with the fact that Ms I tried to stop her order with the merchant, and ended up 
having neither the product nor the money shed authorised for the payment. But I found that 
Nationwide didnt act wrongly or unfairly towards Ms I. It put forward the chargeback under 
the appropriate section, provided Ms I with the defence put forward by the merchant, and it 
provided her with a copy when the merchant wrongly claimed that there was still a 
chargeback pending in early 2020.
For these reasons my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Ms Is complaint 
against Nationwide.
Responses to my provisional decisionMs I didnt reply to the provisional decision.
Nationwide replied and said it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, and in the light of the 
responses from the parties, my provisional decision is unchanged. . 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman