DRN-3902073
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) decision
to decline his claim under his life and critical illness. The policy (the policy) this claim is
under started in February 2018.
I previously issued a provisional decision which commented on the merits of Mr Ps 
complaint about L&Gs rejection of his claim under this policy. This was because at this point 
I was considering L&Gs decision to reject two claims from Mr P under two different policies
as one complaint. However, Ive since decided these need to be considered as separate
complaints.
What happened
Mr P was diagnosed with what his treating consultant described as a left frontal brain
abscess secondary to periodontal disease. He submitted a claim under the policy, which
says Mr P is covered for £200,000. L&G defined the condition as an intracerebral abscess
and said this was not one of the critical illnesses listed as covered by the policy. So, they
turned down Mr Ps claim. Mr P complained to L&G. They said they were satisfied their
decision to turn down his claim was correct.
Mr P has asked us to consider his complaint about L&G turning down his claim. Hes also
complained about how they handled it, including the length of time it took them to consider it
in the first instance. And the length of time it took them to review the further evidence he
provided.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 December 2022 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy sets out that if he - as the life insured - is diagnosed with one of the critical
illnesses as defined in the section headed Critical Illness Definitions he will receive the
amount he is covered for, which is £200,000. It also states that the critical illness must be
verified by a medical specialist who holds an appointment as a consultant in a hospital in the
UK and whose specialism L&G reasonably consider is appropriate to the critical illness.
The relevant defined critical illness that Mr P has said he had is a Benign Brain Tumour.
This is defined as follows:
A non-malignant tumour or cyst originating from the brain, cranial nerves or meninges within
the skull, resulting in either surgical removal or permanent neurological deficit with
persisting clinical symptoms.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
Tumours in the pituitary gland.
Tumours originating from bone tissue.
Angiomas and cholesteatoma.
L&G havent suggested any of the exclusions listed apply, but they dont think Mr P had a
cyst. They think he had an abscess and that this is different to a cyst. An abscess isnt
specifically mentioned or defined in the policy.
Under the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Guide to Minimum Standards for Critical
Illness Cover, which was produced in 2018, Cyst is defined as A cavity or sac enclosed by
a membrane, often containing liquid or semi-solid material.
The guide does say insurers didnt need to adopt the changes it introduced until February
2019 at the latest. And  I appreciate the policy started in February 2018. However, in the
absence of any definition of a cyst in the policy wording or a previous definition by the ABI, I
think in deciding the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint it is appropriate to apply
the definition of a cyst in the 2018 ABI guide when deciding whether Mr P suffered from a
Benign Brain Tumour as defined in the policy. I say this because if the ABI later defined a
cyst in this way, they must be satisfied it is the right definition for insurers to use and it was
clearly considered to be the industry standard at the time Mr P made his claim. Its still the
same in the new guide, which was issued by the ABI recently, which reinforces my opinion
that to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in this case it is appropriate to use this definition
of a cyst.
The medical notes provided by Mr P, which were provided following his discharge,
specifically refer to finding a Thick capsule and later refer to taking small biopsies of the
wall. These notes also refer to finding and draining pus from the cavity. While pus is
generally used more specifically in definitions of an abscess, the ABI guide definition of a
cyst only requires liquid or semi-solid material. And I think pus fits this criteria.
L&G think there is a clear distinction in medical classifications between an abscess and a
cyst. They do not consider it compelling or reasonable to accept that the terms brain
abscess and cyst can be used interchangeably. Theyve said Mr Ps policy covers the
latter, but the former is a separate insurable event. Theyve pointed out that, although a brain
abscess is not covered by Mr Ps policy, they and other insurers do now provide cover for it.
And they think that there would be no logical reason for insurers to do so if a brain abscess
was intended to be covered as a different condition such as a benign brain tumour. Theyve
also pointed out that cysts and abscesses are separate conditions under the International
Classification of Diseases (ICD 10) and an abscess is not a sub-set of cyst. Theyve said
under this a cerebral cyst is coded G93 and an intracranial abscess is G06. L&G think this is
contrary to the view that an infected cyst is known as an abscess.
L&G think the crux of this case is based on the definition applied to Mr P's condition more so
than regular points of dispute such as a prognosis or ongoing deficit. They feel they have
provided a number of credible explanations which demonstrate that Mr Ps brain abscess is
not medically defined as a cyst. And they consider a decision to the contrary would have far
reaching implications for insurers, in publicising that critical illness cover may be incorrectly
extended from the conditions which are covered to those which are perceived to share
similar features.
L&G have stressed that all of Mr Ps medical notes from the time of his hospital admission
and treatment refer to him suffering a brain abscess. And that the language was only
changed to include the word cyst when Mr P engaged with medical professionals for the
purposes of his critical illness claim.Ive noted L&Gs comments and I appreciate there could well be other medical conditions
where the ABI definition can just as reasonably be applied. But, I have to decide the merits
of Mr Ps complaint and need to focus on whether he has had one of the critical illnesses as
defined in the policy. These include Benign Brain Tumour and to meet the first part of the
policy definition of this illness Mr P needs to have had a non-malignant tumour or cyst
originating from the brain. Therefore, in my opinion, if he had a cyst - as defined in the ABI
guide  originating from his brain and it was this that left him with a permanent neurological
deficit with persisting clinical symptoms, his illness meets the policy definition of a Benign
Brain Tumour.
I also appreciate that some insurers do now specifically offer cover for brain abscesses and
that L&G may not have intended to provide cover for them under Mr Ps policy. But, in
deciding the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint I need to consider what is fair
and reasonable in light of the wording of the policy and the cover provided according to it
and not according to what L&G actually intended to cover.
I have noted L&Gs CMOs point that if something is referred to as cystic it is not necessarily
the same as a cyst, which is defined in medical textbooks as a cavity with an epithelial lining
containing fluid or a semi-solid material. Ive also noted his reference to typical cysts in the
brain that may result in a critical illness claim. And that an abscess is formed by a different
pathophysiological process and that they develop as part of the bodys inflammatory
process. I also appreciate that in this process pus forms in a cavity and is then walled off by
fibrous tissue and that there is no epithelial lining around an abscess. I also understand
L&Gs CMOs point that a cyst can become infected and develop an abscess within it.
But these comments do not alter my view that Mr P suffered from a cyst in his brain
according to the definition of a cyst set out in the ABI guide. I say this because all this
definition requires is a cavity or sac enclosed by a membrane, often containing liquid or
semi-solid material. There is no reference to this needing to be formed in a particular way.
And both the experts Mr P has seen, wholl Ill refer to as Ms M and Mr K, consider Mr P
suffered from a cyst in his brain. And I think it is significant that Mr K was Mr Ps treating
consultant and that both he and Ms M are eminent neurosurgeons, which makes them
experts in the field of medicine that is relevant so far as Mr Ps illness is concerned. I
appreciate L&Gs CMO does not agree with them, but I prefer Mr K and Ms Ms opinions for
the following reasons:
Mr K has said that, although the primary source of bacterium resulting in the formation of
the abscess is believed to have originated from Mr Ps dental treatment, the abscess
itself formed within the brain and nowhere else. Therefore, purely from the abscess point
of view, it originated in the brain. I find this comment very persuasive. And I am satisfied
that this shows Mr P did have a cyst that originated from his brain.
I think Mr Ks opinion that a cyst embraces a large number of different pathologies and
that a brain cyst is defined as a collection of fluid within a membrane or capsule
separating it from normal brain tissue is significant. And I think this adds great weight to
the view that Mr P suffered from a brain cyst.
I think Mr Ks comment that in recent decades the definition of cyst has been used to
embrace any collection of fluid (which includes pus) that is collected within the confines
of an inflammatory capsule is important. This is because it shows there is expert support
for my view that Mr P suffered from a cyst originating from his brain.
Mr K has also said that there is a respectable body of medical opinion which includes
abscess and an infective process under the definition of cyst. And he has referred to thepeer-reviewed publication by Go (European Journal of Radiology 1993; 17; pages 69-84)
entitled Cystic lesions of the Brain: A classification based Pathogenesis and
consideration of Histological and Radiological Features. This is further medical opinion
that I think supports the view that Mr P suffered from a cyst originating from his brain.
I also think the Cedars Sinai definition of a brain cyst, which lists a brain abscess as a
type of brain cyst supports the view Mr P suffered from a brain cyst.
Mr K also thinks that in essence, publications both within the medical specialist field, and
those which appear in lay language on the internet, include abscesses as benign cysts.
And that the large majority of these present as cystic abnormalities. I think this again
provides strong evidence in support of Mr P having a valid claim under his policy.
Ms M has said that based on the surgical procedure and the aspirate there is no doubt
Mr P had a brain cyst. I consider this in itself very strong evidence in support of Mr Ps
claim, as Ms M has met Mr P to discuss his case and reviewed his medical notes.
Ms M takes the view that the lesion Mr P presented with was encapsulated with a solid
wall, the contents were both fluid and semi-solid and that this means it satisfies the
definition of a cyst. This is again very strong evidence in support of my view that what Mr
P had was actually a brain cyst.
As Ive already mentioned, both Mr K and Ms M are eminent neurosurgeons and so experts
in their field who are to some extent independent. I think this means their views should carry
a great deal of weight. And Im satisfied it means Mr Ps critical illness has been verified by a
medical specialist who holds or has held an appointment as a consultant in a hospital in the
UK and whose specialism L&G should reasonably consider is appropriate to the critical
illness.
I acknowledge L&Gs point that there is a clear distinction in medical classifications between
an abscess and a cyst. And I understand L&G dont think the terms brain abscess and cyst
can be used interchangeably. But these points do not alter my view that what Mr P suffered
from meets the definition of a cyst as set out in the ABI guide. And that this means his critical
illness meets the definition in his policy for a Benign Brain Tumour.
I have also noted L&Gs view that a decision in Mr Ps favour would have far reaching
implications. But, in my opinion, this complaint turns on a difference in medical opinion and a
definition that is accepted as the industry standard. And, while I appreciate L&G and their
CMO have a different medical opinion to Mr K, Ms M and many other medical experts that
have written articles on the subject, I prefer these other opinions to that of L&Gs CMO. This
is because they are to a large extent independent experts, one of who has actually treated
Mr P and one of whom has met with him.
I have also considered whether Mr Ps illness meets the second part of the definition for
Benign Brain Tumour in his policy. This is that it has resulted in either surgical removal or
permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms. And I think it does. This is
because - in his letter of 26 January 2021 - Mr K said Mr P would have a permanent
abnormality within his brain. And he said in Mr Ps case the left frontal location of the
abscess he suffered from has left him with typical higher cognitive disfunction. And he also
explained Mr P was likely to have long-term neuro-cognitive deficits, although he did say
these would reduce with time.
Mr K also said Mr P would require long-term anticonvulsants, but he did also suggest that if
he remained seizure free for two years he may consider weaning himself off theantiepileptics. Since Mr K said all this Mr P has suffered a further seizure and now has a
bracelet to show he has epilepsy and he has said he will need to take medication for this for
the rest of his life. And Ive seen details of the notes from the hospital Mr P was admitted to
when he had this seizure, which refers to left side frontotemporal in the form of slow and
interical sharp epileptiform activity.
Therefore, considering what Mr K said in January and the fact Mr P has had another seizure
since he said this, plus the fact that I have no reason to doubt Mr Ps word that he will need
to take medication for epilepsy for the rest of his life, Im satisfied his illness meets the
second part of the definition of Benign Brain Tumour in Mr Ps policy, ie that he has a
permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms.
In summary, my view is that Mr P suffered from a Benign Brain Tumour as defined by the
policy, as he had a cyst in his brain based on the definition of a cyst as set out in the 2018
ABI guide Ive referred to. And this has left him with a permanent neurological deficit with
persisting clinical symptoms. And Im satisfied this has been verified by a medical specialist
who holds or has held an appointment as a consultant neurosurgeon at a hospital in the UK.
It therefore follows that I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for
L&G to settle Mr Ps claim by paying him the sum insured under the policy of £200,000, as
this is what the policy terms require if he has a valid claim under it. Ive also provisionally
decided that interest should be paid on this amount with effect from one month after Mr P
made his claim. This is because I consider it reasonable to allow a month for the fact L&G
had to consider Mr Ps claim, even though it took longer than this for them to do so and turn
it down. The interest is because Mr P has been deprived of funds he should have had as a
result of what I consider to be an incorrect decision by L&G to decline his claim.
It is also my view that Mr P should receive £250 in compensation for the impact L&Gs
decision to turn down his claim had on him in terms of distress and inconvenience. It was a
difficult time for Mr P anyway and, whilst L&Gs decision was  in my opinion  the wrong
one, they did at least explain it clearly to Mr P. I also appreciate it took longer than Mr P
thinks it should have done for L&G to communicate their decision to him originally and after
he provided further evidence. I also acknowledge the fact that Mr P thinks the attitude of
L&Gs claims handler was inappropriate, but I think £250 for distress and inconvenience is
adequate compensation alongside the payment of his claim and interest on the amount due
as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.
I gave both parties until 10 January 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr P provided the following comments for consideration:
Within L&Gs analysis they have made reference to his illness being treated with burr 
hole aspiration. This is incorrect, as he had a craniotomy, which is self-evident with the 
triangulated scar and indentation in his skull. 
When visiting Ms M to seek her professional opinion regarding his illness she did so by 
reading his hospital notes. But, most importantly he arranged for her to receive copies of 
his brain scans, which support her view of a walled structure encapsulating the illness. 
Mr K previously advised in his letter discharging him from hospital that in the unlikely 
event that he suffered a further brain seizure he would suffer with epilepsy and need to 
take an anti-convulsant for the rest of his life. He has continued to pay the monthly premiums for the policy to make sure it remains 
valid, which wouldnt have been necessary if L&G had accepted his claim. He thinks 
these premiums, plus interest, should be added to the settlement amount due to him. 
He has provided his calculation of the interest payable. Hes then added that he 
understands the sum payable in interest maybe subject to tax. However, as a company 
owner he is not directly employed by any company. And he would prefer the interest sum 
is paid gross, so it is taxed correctly in consideration with his accountant. 
I then wrote to L&G on 29 December 2022 to say that I agreed with Mr Ps point that the 
premiums he paid since 5 September 2020 had only been paid because his claim was 
wrongly rejected. I went on to say this meant it was a loss flowing from what I considered to 
be an incorrect decision by L&G on his claim. And that I thought Mr P should also have any 
premiums hed paid since 5 September 2020 refunded to him with interest at 8% per annum 
simple from the date he paid them. This is because he has been without money he should 
have had. I also gave L&G until 10 January to provide further comments on this. I also let Mr 
P know Id done this. 
L&G have now responded to my provisional decision and my email about the refund of 
premiums to say they have no further comments or evidence to provide to either. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the further points Mr P has made about his treatment, Ms Ms review being based 
on his brain scans as well as his hospital notes and Mr Ks comment on what would happen 
if he had a further brain seizure. But, as these dont alter my view on the fair and reasonable 
outcome to his complaint, I see no reason to comment on them. 
Ive also noted his point about the monthly premiums he paid after his claim was turned 
down. He is aware I think L&G should refund these, plus interest, for the reason stated 
above. 
I do not consider it is appropriate for me to tell L&G how they should pay interest on the 
amounts due to Mr P. This is because I think this is a matter for them as the respondent 
business.
As L&G havent provided any further comments and evidence in response to my provisional 
decision I see no reason to depart from what I provisionally decided. I also see no reason to 
depart from the view I set out in my email of 29 December, as L&G have not provided any 
comments or evidence in response to it. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows that for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and my email of 29 
December 2022 Ive decided the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is to uphold it 
and make Legal and General Assurance Society Limited pay Mr P £200,000 in settlement of 
his claim. Ive also decided L&G should pay interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple 
from one month after Mr P submitted his claim to the date of actual payment.
Again, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive also decided L&G should pay 
Mr P £250 in compensation for the impact their decision to turn down his claim had on him in 
terms of distress and inconvenience.In addition, Ive decided L&G should refund any monthly premiums Mr P paid for his policy 
after 5 September 2020, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date he paid each 
one to the date he receives the refund. 
L&G must tell Mr P if they have made a deduction for income tax from the interest due. And, 
if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction certificate 
for Mr P if asked to do so. This will allow Mr P to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue 
& Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman