DRN-3846068
The complaint
Mrs H complains that her TSB Bank plc online banking facility doesnt work.
 
What happened
Mrs H has a current account with TSB and had been using its online banking facility until 
May 22. Mrs H has told us that since May 2022 shes been unable to reliably access online 
banking which has made it hard to manage her accounts. 
Mrs H complained to TSB and it investigated the technical issue. TSB has gone on to refer 
Mrs Hs difficulties to a technical team to investigate but, to date, its been unable to resolve 
the situation or restore access to online banking. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Hs complaint and upheld it. They asked TSB to 
pay Mrs H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. During the investigation, TSB 
advised it still wasnt able to resolve Mrs Hs technical difficulties but was continuing to look 
into the problem. TSB agreed to pay Mrs H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But Mrs H asked to appeal. As a result, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief in setting out the background of Mrs Hs complaint as all parties broadly agree 
about what happened. I can see Mrs H hasnt been able to access online banking for a long 
time and TSB accepts theres a technical issue thats impacting her. TSBs confirmed 
investigations into the issue remain ongoing but hasnt been able to provide a timescale for a 
fix. 
Ultimately, until TSB is able to find out whats wrong and why Mrs Hs online banking facility 
isnt working she wont be able to access it. I understand that doesnt resolve the underlying 
issue. But I think its fair to be realistic and say theres no way we can force TSB to fix the 
issue beyond investigating the problem. Given the length of time this issue has been 
ongoing and the lack of resolution, Mrs H is free to consider her banking options and 
whether TSB is able to provide the services she requires. 
I agree that the issues raised have unfairly impacted Mrs H and that shes lost an important 
tool to help manage her account. I agree that Mrs Hs case should be upheld. Our 
investigator asked TSB to pay Mrs H £200 for the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
As Ive noted above, I accept Mrs H hasnt been able to use online banking as intended. But 
Mrs Hs account still operates as normal and can be managed using other means. So Mrs H 
hasnt lost access to the bank account itself, just the online banking facility. Having taken all 
the available information into account, Im satisfied the £200 payment for the distress and 
inconvenience caused that has already been agreed is a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
Mrs Hs complaint. As Im satisfied the compensation already agreed is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances and TSB has confirmed it continues to investigate the technical 
problems, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay her £200 (less 
any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman