DRN-3684333
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains about Phoenix Life Assurance Limited and how it doesnt 
recognise that he invested into a managed bond in January 1995.
What happened
Mrs R is the late Mr Ms daughter. She is acting on behalf of his estate.
Mr M held three bonds with Phoenix, and they were all due to mature in 1994 and 1995. 
It seems it was Mr Ms intentions at that time to wait for all three bonds to mature and 
with the proceeds reinvest £10,000 into one bond. 
Mrs R found paperwork dated 13 January 1995, that she says showed he had invested 
the money into a Sovereign unit linked bond with Phoenix. She said the document 
showed how many units he had purchased and that the policy was still active. The 
document showed there was a guaranteed sum payable, and the assured person was 
the late Mr Ms wife. Mrs R said Phoenix told her the policy hadnt been set in in force 
and that in all likelihood the three policies that had matured were instead paid out to her 
late father. 
Mrs R was not happy with Phoenixs response and said she held paperwork that 
showed otherwise. She said it clearly stated in the policy documentation that units had 
been purchased in a bond in 1995. She made a complaint to Phoenix about this. 
Phoenix explained that from what it could see the policy was not taken up by Mr M in 1995. It 
said it didnt have any evidence that Mr M had held any units in the bond in question. It did 
though at this stage acknowledge that it hadnt handled the complaint as well as it should 
have done and offered £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience due to the delays 
it caused in responding.
Mrs R wasnt happy with Phoenixs response so referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he had seen 
documentation from Phoenix that showed money hadnt been paid in for the bond after 
the date Mrs R said the policy had been set up. He concluded on balance that the bond 
wasnt in force and instead the money had more likely than not been paid to Mr M. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said Phoenix had not provided any evidence that a cancellation 
notice had been received by it. Or that an initial premium of £10,000 was returned to her 
father. She said it had received the initial premium of £10,000 due to the maturity of three 
bonds. It then issued a policy and schedule that listed the investment and the amount of 
units allocated. 
She asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the estate of Mr Ms complaint, and these are my findings that explain 
why:
I have seen and looked through the documentation Mrs R has submitted and 
referred to. This being a policy document and schedule both dated 13 January 
1995. I can see why she would query with Phoenix about the information on 
these forms. It says on the policy document that a premium of £10,000 was paid, 
at an offer price of 261.60 and that there were 3822.63 units. The schedule 
document reaffirms this.  Again, I can see why Mrs R would want to see what this 
was about and if the policy was still in existence.
Phoenix says there is nothing within any documentation that it holds to indicate 
the investment had gone ahead. It said the policy was not taken up in 1995.
Phoenix has provided notes from its system at around the time the policy and 
schedule were produced by it on 13 January 1995. I can see on a note five days 
after on 18 January 1995 it says, the full premium of £10,000 for the above 
proposal is being paid from the proceeds of maturing / surrendered policy. This 
note is from a date after the policy and schedule were produced. So, I think, this 
note at the very least shows that money had not been paid for the bond on the 
date the policy and schedule were produced.
Phoenix says it cannot see any regular statements or any documentation to say it 
received the money or anything to see that the bond was in existence. It said two 
of the three maturing bonds would have been paid out by cheque to Mr M and 
then a third matured bond paid onto an account. It said this account would have 
been closed (and presumably paid out at the same time) before the account was 
due for transfer to a third party in 2003.
With the information I have in front of me, I am persuaded by what Phoenix has 
said and the explanation it has given as to what more likely than not has 
happened here. It does look like it was Mr Ms intention to invest £10,000 into a 
bond in 1995. This intention and request created documentation such as the 
policy and schedule, but if the investment did go ahead then I wouldve expected 
to see statements, correspondence, and other documentation in relation to this 
bond and Phoenix has nothing at all within its records that suggest that it was 
taken up. So, with what I have in front of me, on balance I dont think the 
investment was taken up by Mr M and it is more likely the money from the 
maturing bonds was paid back.
Finally, Phoenix has offered to pay £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience 
due to the way it has handled this complaint. It said it took too long to respond. As I cant 
direct a business to compensate an estate for distress and inconvenience, it is now for the 
estate of Mr M to decide whether or not to accept this.
In conclusion I dont uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint about whether Phoenix set up a 
managed bond or not in 1995. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs R, but I hope she will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
I do not uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint about Phoenix Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman