DRN-3079795
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society provided details of her sons Child Trust 
Fund (CTF) to him when he set up an online banking application.
What happened
Ms S set up a CTF for her son. She says that her privacy was breached because the CTF 
balance was disclosed to her son when he set up an online banking app. She understood 
that her son would be able to access the account at 18 but says that he was only 14 when 
he set up his online banking and became aware of the account. She says her son wasnt 
aware of the account until that time.
Nationwide said that Ms S son was a member of Nationwide and had his own customer 
number. It said that any accounts opened in his name or where he was a beneficiary would 
be on his profile. As Ms S son was registered for internet banking all his accounts, including 
the CTF for which he was the beneficiary were able to be viewed. It said it couldnt remove 
the CTF from Ms S sons account list. 
Nationwide confirmed that Ms S remained the registered contact for the account and would 
do so until her son turned 18, or 16, if he chose to become the registered contact at that 
time.
Our investigator explained that it isnt our role to decide whether there has been a data 
breach, that is for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). However, we consider 
whether its fair and reasonable to tell a business to pay compensation or take any other 
action to recognise the impact of whats happened on a consumer as a result of any error(s) 
made. In this case, he didnt find that Nationwide had made a mistake and therefore didnt 
uphold this complaint.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said the issues had caused a rift between 
her and her son and made her health condition worsen. She also said that she wasnt told 
when her son opened an account with Nationwide that his CTF details would be linked to 
this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S set up a CTF for her son in 2009. I can understand why she was upset when her son 
set up internet banking and became aware of the balance on this account. Ms S has 
explained that he wasnt aware of this before that time. She believes a data breach has 
occurred by the information being available to her son. However, as our investigator has 
explained, it isnt our role to say whether a breach of data protection has occurred, that is for 
the ICO. We can consider whether the issue has meant that Ms S hasnt been treated fairly 
and consider any impact the issue may have had.
This issue has been upsetting for Ms S. She has explained her medical condition and that 
the stress caused by her son becoming aware of the account has made her condition worse. 
However, for me to say that Nationwide is required to take any further action regarding this 
issue I would need to be satisfied that it has acted unfairly here. But I dont think it has. 
The CTF was set up by Ms S and Nationwide has confirmed she remains the registered 
contact. However, it is her son who is the beneficial owner of the account. Nationwide has 
explained that Ms S son has his own customer number. So, this account, along with any 
others that he is the beneficial owner of, will be on his profile. Therefore, when he set up 
internet banking, he was able to see the account.
I appreciate why this has caused upset and I note the issues Ms S has said have been 
caused between her and her son. I also note Ms S comments about her not being told when 
her son set up his account that the CTF would be linked to it. However, the internet banking 
terms set out the definition of account being any that is in the customers name or jointly 
held. I have nothing to suggest that Ms S asked about the CTF when her son set up his 
account and I cant see that Nationwide have been made aware of whatever parental 
arrangement may have been in place here, or of any concerns Ms S had about her son 
seeing the CTF account. Had it have been aware of this, it might have been fair for it to have 
done things differently. But without any awareness of this I cant see any reason that 
Nationwide should have acted differently as it followed its usual processes. 
I appreciate why this has caused upset and I note the issues Ms S has said have been 
caused between her and her son. However, I do not find I can say that Nationwide has done 
anything wrong. The CTF terms are clear that her son is the beneficial owner and on 
balance, I do not find that I have evidence to say that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman