DRN-2419242
The complaint
Mr W is not happy with the length of time it took Nationwide Building Society to open a 
savings account in his name.
What happened
Mr W applied for an ISA with Nationwide on 28 November 2019, but the ISA wasnt opened 
by Nationwide for him until 3 January 2020. Mr W was unhappy that this took so long, and so 
he made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ws complaint on 12 January 2020. They agreed that they 
could have communicated with Mr W better about the delay in opening the ISA, and so they 
upheld Mr Ws complaint. 
The terms of the ISA meant that a maximum of £200 could be deposited into the account 
each month. Because the delay in opening the account meant that Mr W had been unable to 
make these deposits for December and January, Nationwide arranged to backdate the 
monthly deposit allowance for Mr Ws ISA so that he could make these deposits, and so that 
they would be treated as though they would have been received on the 1st of each 
respective month. 
Nationwide also made an offer of £75 to Mr W to compensate him for the inconvenience this 
matter had caused. Mr W accepted this offer and Nationwide paid it a few days later. 
However, when Mr W attempted to make the backdated deposits, he was unable to do so. 
Mr W contacted Nationwide again as he was unhappy about this. Nationwide apologised that 
it hadnt reset the deposit limit as agreed and made a second payment of £75 to Mr W on 21 
January 2020.
Mr W referred this matter to our service. Our investigator was happy with the action 
Nationwide had taken to restore Mr Ws ISA to the correct financial position, but they were 
unaware of the second payment of £75 that Nationwide had made, and they didnt feel that 
the one payment of £75 that they were aware of was sufficient compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr W had suffered. 
So, our investigator said that they thought that Nationwide should increase their offer of 
compensation to £150 and upheld the complaint in Mr Ws favour on that basis.
Nationwide responded to our investigator and advised that they had in fact already made a 
second payment of £75 to Mr W, which meant that a total of £150 had already been paid to 
him and that therefore they felt that there was no further action needed on their part. 
Our investigator agreed with Nationwide on this point, and so changed the complaint 
decision to reflect that no further action was required by Nationwide.
Mr W was unhappy with this and advised that he hadnt received the full £150. Nationwide 
provided evidence to confirm that a total of £150 had been paid into Mr Ws account, and Mr 
W was later able to locate these payments. However, Mr W remained dissatisfied with the 
amount of compensation paid, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can understand Mr Ws frustration that the ISA which he applied for wasnt set up in a 
timely manner by Nationwide, I think that Nationwides response to Mr Ws complaint was 
fair and reasonable. I say this because Nationwide effectively backdated the opening of the 
ISA to when Mr W applied, and as such made sure that Mr W was not affected financially by 
the late opening of the account  which is what I would expect to see here.
Nationwide also acknowledged that their level of service to Mr W had not been to a sufficient 
standard, and they offered Mr W compensation because of this  initially £75, but then also a 
further £75 when Mr W couldnt make the backdated ISA deposits and had to contact 
Nationwide again about this.
It would have disappointing for Mr W to have had to call Nationwide for a second time, but 
on balance I think that the total amount of compensation (£150) that Nationwide have paid to 
Mr W is appropriate in these circumstances, and I dont feel that any additional offer of 
compensation above what Nationwide have already made is warranted at this time. 
Having reviewed this complaint I am satisfied that Nationwide acted appropriately and in Mr 
Ws best interests to put matters right and made offers of compensation that were 
proportionate to what had occurred.
As explained above, Nationwide have confirmed that the full £150 compensation offer has 
already been received by Mr W into his account, and as such I will not be upholding this 
complaint as no further action is required of Nationwide at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman