DRN-3922519
The complaint
Miss F complains that MBNA Limited closed her credit card account without telling her. 
What happened
In August 2021, MBNA wrote to Miss F letting her know that her credit card account was part 
of their use it or lose it scheme. They explained that Miss F either had to use the card or let 
them know she wanted the account to remain open by 11 November 2021. MBNA didnt 
hear back from Miss F and said the card hadnt been used since May 2019. Because of this, 
the account was closed. 
Miss F complained in October 2022. She wasnt happy with MBNAs decision to close the 
account and said she had never been told. She asked MBNA to reopen the account, as she 
wanted to retain her credit limit of £20,000. 
MBNA responded and explained that due to the amount of time that had passed they were 
unable to reopen the account. Instead, they explained that Miss F could apply for a new 
card. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He explained that he wouldnt be able to ask 
MBNA to reinstate the account as too much time had passed meaning it wasnt possible. 
However he did ask MBNA to award Miss F £100 in compensation as they werent able to 
provide a copy of the letter sent in August 2021, or any follow up correspondence letting 
Miss F know the account had been closed.
MBNA responded and were able to provide a screenshot of the mail merge file used to 
generate the letter that was sent to Miss F in August 2021. They asked whether this would 
change our investigators view, however our investigator still felt the compensation should be 
given as the screenshot didnt show the date the letter was sent. 
MBNA accepted and agreed to pay Miss F £100. However Miss F disagreed as she wanted 
her account to be reopened. Because of this the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
the same reasons. I will explain why. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Fs account explain the agreement has no fixed duration 
and can be ended by MBNA or Miss F. They go on to say that if the account is going to be 
closed, they will give at least two months notice. 
Its quite common that banks will close accounts that havent been used for a long time. 
What I must decide is whether MBNA have done this fairly and given enough notice. 
MBNA have provided documentation to show that Miss F last used her credit card in April 
2019. It was then paid off in the same month. 
MBNA arent able to provide a copy of the letter sent to Miss F in August 2021. They have 
explained that the record dropped from their systems after 12 months but having looked at 
the historical data from the time, they can see that Miss F was sent the letter in August 2021. 
They have also provided a screenshot of the mail merge file that would have been used to 
generate the letter.
Miss F has said she was never told of the closure. She also said her account specified that 
she wanted paperless communication meaning MBNA should have told her about the 
closure via digital communication. 
From the information MBNA have provided I believe its more likely than not that the letter 
was sent. However as we dont have any solid evidence to show the date it was sent, nor do 
we have a copy of the letter, I agree with our investigators recommendation that £100 in 
compensation should be awarded. 
I note Miss Fs preference for digital communication, but there are some occasions where a 
bank will send certain correspondence by letter only. The terms of the account explain that 
while MBNA will usually notify a customer of changes via their online secure inbox, they may 
also use post, provided they give at least 30 days notice. Because of this, I dont find MBNA 
are at fault for sending Miss F a letter. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss F wants. She wants the account to be reopened 
with the same credit limit, and I understand her reason for needing that limit is both very 
important, personal, and emotive. But unfortunately this isnt something I can ask MBNA to 
do. 
Given the time that has passed, Miss Fs financial circumstances may have changed. It 
wouldnt be responsible for MBNA to provide Miss F with a credit card limit of £20,000 
without doing the checks that are needed first. 
If Miss F would like a credit card, she will need to make a new application. MBNA have said 
she can check her eligibility on their website using their eligibility checker which will use a 
soft search. I find this to be reasonable. 
While I know this isnt the outcome Miss F was hoping for, I hope I have clearly explained 
why Im not able to ask MBNA to reinstate the account, together with the £20,000 limit. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should pay Miss F 
£100 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman