DRN-4091671
Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly increased 
and then added interest, fees and charges to her overdraft even after it had become clear 
that she was struggling to repay what she already owed.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ms complaint and thought Nationwide should have 
realised Mrs Ms overdraft had already become unsustainable for her by November 2019. So 
it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Ms overdraft from this 
point. Despite having been provided with additional time to do so, Nationwide didnt respond 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Nationwide acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from November 2019. By this 
point, it was evident Mrs Ms overdraft had become unsustainable for her. 
A cursory look at her statements during this period shows that Mrs M hadnt seen a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. And by this stage the credits going into the account 
didnt suggest that it was reasonable for Nationwide to believe that Mrs M was in a position 
to repay what she owed without borrowing further or experiencing difficulty either.    
So I think that by November 2019 Nationwide should have stopped providing the overdraft 
on the same terms and treated Mrs M with forbearance rather than increasing Mrs Ms limit 
and adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Nationwide should have realised that Mrs M was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered her help to repay what she owed. As Nationwide didnt react to Mrs Ms 
account usage and instead increased her limit, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was 
already struggling to repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Mrs M lost out because of 
what Nationwide did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for Mrs M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from November 2019 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Mrs M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Nationwide 
to reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Mrs Ms credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
November 2019. Nationwide can also reduce Mrs Ms overdraft limit by the 
amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so 
wouldnt leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file. 
Nationwide can also reduce Mrs Ms overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman