DRN-1946998
The complaint
Miss A complains that Citifinancial Europe Limited (Citifinancial) mis-sold her a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss A was sold a PPI policy in connection with a loan during a meeting in September 2003. 
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit if Miss A was off work because of an 
accident or sickness. It also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator thought that Miss As complaint should be upheld because they thought that 
the cost of the policy had not been made clear to Miss A. Citifinancial didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case. 
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint. I will now explain why. 
Citifinancial had to make the cost of the policy clear to Miss A. It says that the costs were set 
out clearly in the documents provided to Miss A. However, I have seen a copy of these 
documents and I dont think the costs were set out clearly enough. 
Miss A was sold a single premium policy which meant that the cost of the policy was added 
to her borrowing and she would have been charged interest on this. In these circumstances, 
I would have expected Citifinancial to set out the cost of the PPI premium, the interest to be 
charged, the total cost of the PPI including interest and the monthly PPI repayment so that 
Miss A could make an informed decision about the cost of the policy and whether it was of 
value to her. 
However, the insurance application form simply set out the cost of the PPI  without 
interest. Ive also seen a copy of the credit agreement to check if the costs had been set out 
any more clearly here. But they werent. This only set out a total amount for both insurances 
sold to Miss A but no breakdown was provided. Although it showed interest would be added, 
it didnt set out the amount of interest that would be charged (it only provided a percentage 
figure) and I wouldnt expect Miss A to work this out on her own. So in effect the following 
important information was missing: the amount of interest to be charged, the total amount of 
PPI including interest and the monthly cost of the PPI.
I think that if the costs of the PPI had been made clear to Miss A as they should have been, I 
dont think she would have taken the policy out as I dont think she would have considered it 
to have been good value for money in her circumstances. 
It follows that I think Citifinancial mis-sold Miss A this PPI policy. 
Putting things right
Miss A borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Miss A needs to get back the extra shes 
paid. So, Citifinancial should: 
 Work out and pay Miss A the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid without PPI. 
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss A paid from when she paid it until she gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on . 
 If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citifinancial can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 I know that Citifinancial made an offer to refund some of the commission it received for 
Miss As PPI premiums. If this has already been paid to Miss A, Citifinancial can take off 
what she got for the commission from the amount it owes her. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Citifinancial to take off tax from this interest. Citifinancial 
must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss As complaint against Citifinancial Europe Limited and require them to pay 
Miss A the compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman