DRN-1610657
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Oodle Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance ("Oodle") is of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr N took receipt of a used car in June 2019. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle. At the point it was supplied the car was already about three years old 
and had completed about 23,000 miles.
Just a few days after Mr N took receipt of the car the side window dropped. The dealership 
were unable to fix the car in time so Mr N took it to another garage. They fixed the window 
but noted there was evidence of accident damage on the car. Mr N obtained reports from 
this garage, and another, who both agreed there was accident damage. The door's 
reinforcement was damaged and there had been a respray.
Within thirty days of receipt Mr N told Oodle he wanted to return the car. But they would not 
agree. They said it had been repaired and that accident damage wasn't necessarily a reason 
to reject it. So Mr N referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her 
opinion.
She thought Mr N had provided sufficient evidence that the car had a fault when supplied 
and she thought Oodle should allow him to invoke his short term right to reject the vehicle. 
She thought it was clear he'd been inconvenienced by matters and she suggested 
Oodle pay him £200 in recognition of this and that they refund the £80 he'd spent on 
repairs/investigations. She also thought Oodle should refund Mr N's deposit.
Oodle didn't agree with the investigator's view. They noted Mr N had been using the car as a 
taxi but hadn't told them about this and they thought this meant he wasn't an eligible 
complainant. They explained that he'd now completed considerable mileage in the car and 
that they would need to charge him for that mileage. They therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Oodle so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to 
Mr N. The car here was around three years old and had completed about 23,000 miles but I 
dont think a reasonable person would expect the window to drop when it was received.
Mr N had a short term right to reject the car if anything was wrong with it when he took 
receipt and he reported that in the first thirty days  as he did here. Im persuaded that there 
was something wrong with this car as Ive read in the garage reports that the door 
reinforcement was damaged and that the window had dropped. Mr N complained about 
these issues very quickly and I think its therefore highly likely the damage was on the car 
when he received it.
So Oodle should have allowed him to reject the car and should now do so.
Mr N appears to have been using his car as a taxi. I cant see anything in the finance 
agreement that prevents him from doing so. 
Oodle have queried whether Mr N is an eligible complainant. I can see the investigator 
explained why she thought he was and Oodle havent raised any further concerns. But for 
completeness I would say that I agree with the investigator.
The rules that govern this service are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Those 
dispute (DISP) rules say that an eligible complainant is a consumer; or, a microenterprise.
A consumer is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly 
outside that individuals trade, business, craft or profession. So as Mr N appears to be a taxi 
driver it may be that hes not a consumer as he may not be acting mainly outside his trade 
when funding a taxi thats used for his trade. 
But, I think its very likely he is a microenterprise. Thats described as a business that a) 
employs fewer than 10 persons; and (b) has a turnover or balance sheet that does not 
exceed 2 million euros. So on that basis I think he is an eligible complainant. 
 
 
Putting things right
Oodle have suggested that if Mr N was to return the car to them it may not be financially 
beneficial as they suggest hed be liable for excess mileage charges. I cant see mileage charges are applicable under the contract so I dont think it would be fair for Oodle to apply 
them. 
Mr N has clearly had fair use of the car and it seems he may well have completed a high 
mileage in it. When deciding how I should ask the business to put things right I consider 
whether the business should refund any finance instalments if usage of the car has been 
impaired. But I dont think that can be the case here, so Im not asking Oodle to refund any 
instalments that have been paid.
I think Mr N has been inconvenienced by the problems hes had with the car. Hes had, for 
instance; to return it to the dealership; obtain reports from other garages costing £80; and 
progress a complaint through this service when I think it should have been resolved much 
earlier. In those circumstances I think Oodle should pay him £200 in compensation and they 
should also refund the cost hes incurred for the work completed by third party garages.
Mr N has also been deprived of his deposit whilst funding a car that was of unsatisfactory 
quality. So Oodle should refund that deposit and they should add interest to that refund.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to:
terminate the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr N;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund the £80 Mr N has spent on garage work associated with this complaint and 
add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr N £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he's 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to these 
issues.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman