DRN-2262360
The complaint
Miss L has complained about a loan taken with Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G). Miss L says her 
credit records showed she was indebted, in financial difficulties and couldnt afford the loan.
What happened
Miss L took out one loan with L2G in July 2019, the loan was for £750 due to be repaid over 
18 months with a monthly repayment of £171.42. By the end of the loan term, Miss L was 
due to have repaid £3,085.56.
Miss L complained to L2G but it didnt uphold her complaint and so she referred it to this 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said and thought that L2G didnt do 
enough before agreeing to lend and had it done enough then its likely to have found that 
Miss L couldnt afford the loan. 
L2G disagreed, it said its checks went far enough and showed that Miss L could afford the 
loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider a number of 
different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what was being 
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
L2G says it checked Miss Ls credit file. Its search of Miss Ls credit file showed that she had 
an active county court judgement against her in 2015. It also asked Miss L about her 
monthly income which she declared as £1,600 and her monthly expenditure which she 
declared as £363. L2G says that after a thorough review of Miss Ls credit file, it increased 
her monthly expenses to £1,177.48 and added 10% of her income of her verified income 
£150.90 and so it lent to Miss L on the basis that her monthly expenses were around 
£1,328.38.
Firstly, I dont think L2G did enough before lending to Miss L, it says it verified her income, 
but I havent seen any evidence to show that it saw Miss Ls bank statements or payslips, 
I think looking at one of these would have been a reasonable step towards verifying her 
income. Based on the monthly income and expenses L2G says it used, Miss L would have 
been left with around £100 disposable income after making the monthly repayment for the 
loan.
Bearing in mind the loan was for 18 months, I think L2G should have realised that it was 
highly likely Miss L couldnt comfortably afford the repayment throughout the term of the 
loan. I think the amount of disposable income didnt give enough scope for Miss L to deal 
with financial emergencies that may have arisen during the loan term especially as Miss L 
had dependents. 
So, I think L2Gs checks on their own suggest that Miss L was unlikely to be able to maintain 
the repayment of her loan over the term.
Id also make the point that I think there was enough from what L2G found from its checks 
for it to have taken its checks further. Miss L had an active CCJ which she was still repaying 
from four years before this loan. Her credit file also showed that she was borrowing from 
other lenders and she was in arrears on some of her payments. Taking these factors 
together, I think L2G should have been looking to build a clear picture of Miss Ls finances 
before lending.
Miss L provided copies of her bank statements from around the time the loan was given and 
from what I can see, in the month before this loan, her income was around £1,450, this 
included child benefits. Miss L spent over £1,200 on repaying other lenders including short 
term lenders. Miss L also had over £900 outstanding to other lenders when she took out this 
loan. 
Miss L was spending a significant portion of her income on repaying loans and other credit. 
And I think L2G should have known that this wasnt a sustainable position and it shouldnt 
have lent to Miss L. L2G needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
L2G needs to put things right, it should;
remove all interest and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments by Miss L as payments towards the capital;
as theres likely to be an outstanding balance, L2G should reach a suitable 
repayment arrangement with Miss L;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on these loans.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im, upholding Miss Ls complaint and require Loans 2 Go 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman