DRN-2242093
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
wont progress their legal expenses claim further without another professional opinion on the 
prospects of success. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H contacted their legal expenses insurer, DAS, in 2018 following a boundary 
dispute. Initially, DAS said it wasnt able to assist as it thought the legal dispute had occurred 
prior to the inception date of the policy; but it later agreed to investigate in May 2019.
DAS instructed an initial firm of panel solicitors to assess the proposed actions prospects of 
success (a pre-condition of indemnifying legal costs under the terms and conditions of the 
policy). They advised that the dispute had less than 51% prospects of success, so the claim 
was rejected by DAS. 
Mr and Mrs H submitted that the solicitors chosen by DAS didnt specialise in boundary 
disputes, so they disputed the decision not to fund the litigation. DAS therefore told Mr and 
Mrs H that, if they could get a barrister to confirm independently that there were reasonable 
prospects of success, it would reinstate the cover. DAS agreed to Mr and Mrs Hs suggested 
barrister, who they said was an expert in this type of issue. The barristers opinion was that 
the cases prospects of success was 60%, so DAS reimbursed Mr and Mrs H the £1,200 fee 
for this advice. 
With prospects seemingly resolved, DAS passed the case to a second firm of solicitors. But 
their paralegal advised that in fact the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
DAS has acknowledged that this wasnt the correct process insofar as the firm shouldve 
sought a final expert opinion before deciding the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success. Nevertheless, because a second firm of solicitors agreed with the first that the 
claim had no reasonable prospects of success  despite seeing the barristers opinion  
DAS maintained doubts over its prospects. So it said it would fund an experienced barrister, 
at no cost to Mr and Mrs H, to impartially review the claim and advise on whether it enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success. This would be the fourth and final legal opinion. 
Mr and Mrs H dont feel that the opinions of the two solicitors firms are comparable to that of 
their barrister, based on experience and seniority. And they feel that DAS has acted outside 
the policy terms and conditions. DAS said that the first firm does specialise in this kind of 
dispute and that the paralegal for the second firm was supervised by a senior solicitor with 
20 years experience who approved the review of the claim. But it offered £250 
compensation in recognition of the error in the process. And, separately, the solicitors firm 
offered £200 in compensation. 
DAS still wishes to obtain a further opinion before agreeing to fund this litigation. It thinks 
that it wouldnt be in Mr and Mrs Hs interests to pursue litigation that wasnt likely to 
succeed; and says said that funding will continue if the second barrister determines 
reasonable prospects. It has pointed to its policy term saying that reasonable prospects must 
exist for the duration of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H say this process has caused a huge delay; is likely to have damaged their 
case; and has caused stress and an unpleasant living environment. They want funding to be 
reinstated and for DAS to proceed with court action, allowing them freedom of choice over 
their solicitor, without a further opinion. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He explained that our service generally thinks its 
reasonable for an insurer to rely on well-reasoned legal opinions on whether a claim has 
prospects of succeeding or not, rather than having the legal expertise itself. But he didnt 
think it was fair for DAS to require a further opinion unless it could show that the second 
solicitor firms assessment was approved by a professional with similar qualifications and 
experience to that of the barrister. He suggested total compensation of £500 for what had 
gone wrong. He also thought Mr and Mrs H should be given the opportunity to appoint a new 
solicitor of their choice, as long as the fees are similar to the panel solicitors DAS uses. 
DAS disagreed. It thought the recommendation of £500 was too high, considering what had 
gone wrong, especially considering that the solicitors firm had already paid £200 to Mr and 
Mrs H and it had offered £250 (i.e. a total of £450 so far). It also noted that it had offered to 
seek the additional opinion at its own cost and believes it should be able to do so before 
being forced to progress the claim to legal proceedings. It also said that allowing Mr and 
Mrs H to choose their own solicitors at this point is outside its policy terms.  
The investigator clarified the compensation award; he felt that a further £50 should be paid 
by DAS, so the total amount from all sources would be £500  with £200 of this having been 
paid separately by the second firm of solicitors. He remained of the opinion that 
Mr and Mrs H should be able to use a new solicitor of their choice, albeit that DAS would be 
entitled to offer one from its panel, but that Mr and Mrs H should have the final choice of their 
own solicitor if they wished. 
DAS still disagreed with the investigator. In summary, it said that as two firms of solicitors 
had doubted the prospects of success despite the barristers opinion, it doesnt think its 
unreasonable to seek reassurance through a more senior barrister, at its own cost. This 
would be in line with its policy which requires there to be reasonable prospects for the 
duration of the claim. So the complaint was passed to me. 
I got in touch with both parties informally, as our rules allow, to try to resolve this complaint 
at an earlier stage. Ultimately, I explained to Mr and Mrs H that I didnt think it would be 
unreasonable for DAS to seek a further opinion, given the conflicting opinions to date as long 
as it was obtained from a legal professional thats clearly more senior and/or experienced 
than the previous barrister and qualified in the relevant area of law. In addition, I explained 
that the relevant statutory regulations (the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses 
Insurance) Regulations 1990) suggest the insured can choose their own solicitor at the point 
at which legal proceedings become necessary, which hasnt yet been determined. And I 
didnt think DAS should increase its compensation award in the current absence of 
substantive evidence that delays in the case will negatively impact the overall outcome. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They believe that their barristers opinion significantly outweighs 
that of the paralegals of both firms of solicitors. Mr and Mrs H question how an individual 
would be considered more senior or more qualified to support or outweigh their barristers 
opinion. And theyd still like to appoint their own solicitor  one who believes they have 
reasonable prospects of success for the duration of the claim  and said theyd ensure 
upfront costs were provided to DAS. 
As Ive been unable to mediate a fair resolution, and as both parties have had a fair chance 
to comment on the proposed outcome, Im now issuing my final decision on the matter. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive taken everything into consideration, I wont be commenting on all the points raised 
Instead Ive focused on the crux of the complaint and will address what I feel to be most 
relevant. Having done so, while I know this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, I wont 
be upholding this complaint  Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that this matter has been ongoing for quite some time now. And I appreciate that 
having a dispute with an insurer that stems from a neighbour dispute must be very stressful. 
So I do understand why Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about this complaint  and why theyre 
keen to progress the matter and bring it to a close. 
I turn first to the terms and conditions of the policy. These set out the parties respective 
rights and responsibilities under the contract of insurance  and state:
We will pay an appointed representative, on your behalf, costs and expenses for the 
insured incidents in this section as long as reasonable prospects exist for the 
duration of the claim.
Reasonable prospects is defined:
the prospects that you will recover losses or damagesmake a successful 
defence or make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal, must be at least 51%. 
We, or a preferred law firm on our behalf, will assess whether there are reasonable 
prospects.
So, Im satisfied that its clear in the terms and conditions that DAS needs to be satisfied, 
with appropriate backing from a legal professional, that the proposed action will more likely 
than not succeed in court. That is a condition precedent to a valid claim. 
The next key consideration in this complaint is whether DAS has acted fairly in determining 
those prospects of success. Its clear from what Mr and Mrs H have said that they believe 
DAS is trying to avoid having to take the claim to court and will keep progressing the matter 
to more senior barristers until they obtain the answer they want, to be able to decline the 
claim. I can appreciate why it might come across that way to Mr and Mrs H, but Im 
persuaded that this isnt the case and DAS is simply acting on its right to test the reasonable 
prospects for the duration of the claim. So Ive thought carefully about whats happened 
here, as theres a middle ground between assessing the prospects at the beginning of the 
claim and not doing it again; and assessing the prospects a disproportionately high number 
of times to achieve what could be perceived as the desired answer.
Both parties agreed with the appointment of the initial barrister. And Im satisfied this was 
conducted in line with the policy terms, with the expert being approved in advance by DAS, 
and the cost ultimately being covered by it too. The question is around what happened after 
this. I recognise that there was an error in the process. The second firm of solicitors that 
were instructed clearly had reservations about the prospects of success. And, rather than 
seeking comparable expert advice before reaching a conclusion (i.e. from another barrister), 
it deemed the prospects of success to be below 51%. 
This sequence of events is likely to have given DAS a difficult choice to make. As the 
investigator explained, the insurer has the right to rely on well-reasoned legal opinions. But it 
meant that there were two negative prospect opinions versus one positive prospect opinion. A barrister tends to specialise in narrower fields of law and tends to be more versed in the 
conduct of litigation and how a court is likely to find. But it is wrong nowadays to assume that 
a barrister is automatically the senior lawyer just because they have rights of audience 
before the courts that a solicitor or paralegal may not enjoy. The roles are subtly different; 
but it is fair to say that the opinion of a paralegal or solicitor with years of experience cant 
reasonably be dismissed just because its at odds with what a barrister thinks. Given that 
DAS is only contractually obliged to pay the costs where there are prospects of success for 
the duration of the claim, I think its reasonable that it had doubts after receiving the second 
firms advice, especially given that the barristers opinion was available to that firm. At that 
point, there was effectively independent advice two-to-one against proceeding. No prudent 
insurer could reasonably ignore that. The Civil Procedure Rules and Pre-Action Protocols 
make it clear that litigation should not be embarked upon lightly if there arent reasonable 
prospects of success or if the proposed action is not proportionate to whats in dispute. It is 
not only potentially costly to the legal-expenses insurer but also stressful for the litigants on 
both sides and costly to the public purse (e.g. in providing courts and tribunals). I therefore 
think an insurer has a duty only to fund litigation which has reasonable and enduring 
prospects of success. 
Ive thought about the option proposed by DAS, which is for one further, final opinion from 
someone who is comparably senior, experienced and qualified (in the relevant field) as the 
original barrister. This opinion will be paid for by DAS. I dont think this option is unfair or 
outside the policy terms and conditions. If there truly still are reasonable prospects of 
success, the second barrister should unequivocally confirm this and the case will progress. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that DAS doubted the expertise of the barrister  instead 
Im persuaded that the conflicting opinions, from other suitably-qualified and independent 
legal experts, cast enough doubt over the prospects that a further opinion was justified in 
these circumstances. Ultimately, nobody will benefit from progressing a claim thats likely to 
fail. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs Hs concerns over sourcing a further opinion. So, while I agree that 
DAS should be entitled to seek a further opinion, I think the terms of this need to be clearly 
set out. If the two sides cant agree on who to choose, in line with the terms and conditions, 
they can ask the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators to decide (and share any costs for 
this).This is not a decision which the Financial Ombudsman Service would wish to make, as 
its more about the provision of suitable legal services than about the performance of a 
regulated financial contract. 
Unless new information comes to light at a later date, suggesting that the prospects have 
changed, the second barristers opinion will be the final determinative opinion and the claim 
will or will not proceed on the basis of what he or she says. Should the prospects of success 
be said to exceed 51% and the claim proceeds to court, with legal proceedings becoming 
necessary or being issued, Mr and Mrs H should then be allowed to choose their legal 
representatives in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and their statutory rights 
under the 1990 Regulations. (This freedom of choice does not extend to pre-action 
correspondence and/or negotiations.)
Overall, I dont think DASs proposal is unfair or unreasonable, so I wont be upholding this 
complaint. On the question of compensation for distress or inconvenience, whilst I would not 
have increased it by just £50 myself, I am satisfied that the overall amount of £500 from all 
sources is appropriate in all the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont substantially alter the outcome of this complaint about 
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited as I conclude that its already offered a 
fair and reasonable way forwards. Accordingly, my only decision is that, if Mr and Mrs H 
accept my decision on time, DAS will pay £300 compensation if it hasnt already done so 
(bringing the total amount for this to £500 due to the second solicitors payment); and will 
also pay for a fourth and final legal opinion from an independent and suitably-qualified 
barrister on clear terms reasonably comparable to those suggested above, which the parties 
can then rely on to determine whether the proposed action has reasonable prospects of 
success and may therefore proceed to actual litigation with the backing of an indemnity from 
DAS in line with the usual policy terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs H should note that, in law, they probably cant accept my decision and then take 
legal action against DAS with regard to the subject-matter of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman