DRN-2843321
The complaint
Mr W complains that Oplo CF Ltd repossessed his car without properly informing him or 
allowing him to voluntarily terminate his agreement.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr W acquired a second-hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement. 
This was repayable with 47 monthly payments of £174.05 and a final one of £348.85.
Mr W suffered some financial problems and in February 2017 he cancelled his direct debit 
and made a card payment instead. He notified Oplo that he was changing jobs and so he 
couldnt make double payments until end of April 2017.
He then missed his April and May 2017 payments and Oplo contacted him. He explained 
that he wasnt in a position to make the payments at that time. His direct debit failed for a 
third time and Oplo called him again and he explained he had changed banks, but not 
updated his payment details. During the call he paid one months payment, but this left one 
month in arrears.
In April 2018 Oplo was informed that the direct debit had been cancelled again and his 
March 2018 payment was missed. At this point Mr W was in arrears by two payments. Mr W 
called Oplo on 5 April 2018 and asked to enter a payment arrangement to clear the arrears. 
He was asked for income and expenditure details. He was also subsequently told that a 
default notice had been issued on 10 April due to level of arrears on the account. This gave 
him until 24 April to clear those arrears.
On 19 April 2018 Mr W told Oplo that his income would be reduced and he was asked for 
income and expenditure details, but this was not supplied and no suggestion was put 
forward as to how the arrears would be addressed. Mr W has said that he had deferred 
doing so while he considered his options. However, on 24 April 2018 Oplo issued a 
termination notice because arrears of £348.10 were still outstanding. 
This prevented Mr W from opting for voluntary termination. On 1 May 2018 Mr W contacted 
Oplo and explained he had submitted an income and expenditure form as requested by 
email. He was told there was no record of this, but that was an error. On 7 May 2018 Oplo 
acknowledged an email containing the income and expenditure details and attempted to 
contact Mr W to discuss an arrangement that would be affordable. 
In April Mr W had told Oplo that he had changed hi mobile number but it had not updated its 
records and despite trying to call him on numerous occasions it was unable to contact him. 
However, Mr W made contact with Oplo after the changed his number. 
On 12 June 2019 Mr W called and explained that he wanted to hand the car back, but he 
was told this wasnt possible due a termination notice having been issued in 2018. Mr W has 
said that he proceeded with voluntary surrender without understanding what this meant.
On 4 July 2018 the car was repossessed and later that day Mr W a card payment of £522.15 
to clear the arrears. However, this payment didnt clear all the arrears because repossession 
fees had been added to the agreement.
Shortly afterwards he contacted Oplo saying he was unhappy to find his personal belongings 
had been removed from the car during the repossession. He also said that he hadnt been 
told that he would be liable for the cost of the repossession when he made the payment on 4 
July 2018. Oplo said that it had discussed increasing his monthly payments so he could 
cover these costs over time. So, Oplo believed he would have been aware.
The car was sold at auction on 31 July 2019 for £1,175.00, once this was offset against the 
finance agreement there was a balance of £3,074.84 left to pay.
Oplo rejected Mr Ws complaint but paid £30 as a gesture of goodwill and a further £100 for 
the way it had handled his complaint. He brought a complaint to this service and it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She considered 
Oplo had acted in accordance with the relevant rules and it had taken reasonable actions in 
seeking to obtain payment before repossessing the car. Mr W didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr W and the situation in which he finds himself, but I do not 
believe I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
As our investigator has explained Oplo is required to follow certain rules in dealing with 
people who find themselves in financial difficulties. The relevant rules (CONC 7) state that 
lenders should consider consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration.
The Finance and Leasing Association (FLA) lending code states that lenders deal with cases 
of financial difficulty sympathetically and positively and do what they can to help borrowers 
pay what they owe.
In short, a lender should treat a consumer in financial difficulties fairly. Wed expect a lender 
to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their individual circumstances and discuss 
what help is appropriate. Lenders can ask borrowers about their income and expenditure 
and ask them to complete a form about this. We also expect a borrower to cooperate with a 
lender and provide any reasonable information asked for  such as details of any other 
borrowing they may have or details of any savings and investments.
In this case Mr W was in persistent arrears almost from the outset. I have looked at the 
granting of the loan and I have seen nothing to say it was unaffordable at the time it was 
taken out. However, Mr Ws circumstances changed shorty afterwards and he struggled to 
catch up.
Oplo made regular contact either by phone or in writing and notified him regularly of his 
arrears. It also provided a degree of forbearance in chasing Mr W for his debt. It is 
regrettable that his new number wasnt noted on his records and Oplo continued to make 
calls to his old number, but I can see that he was in contact during this period. It also issued 
both a default and termination notice in April 2018 to the correct address and while I 
appreciate Mr W says he didnt receive these I cannot hold Oplo responsible for that.
I consider there was sufficient opportunity for Mr W to discuss the situation with Oplo before it enforced repossession. Even if it had been able to call him the history of the account 
suggests the outcome would not have been different. It seems Mr Ws financial situation was 
such that he could not pay off his arrears and so stopping him voluntarily terminating the 
agreement.
Although there was a period when Oplo was unaware Mr W had submitted income and 
expenditure details I dont believe that was a material factor in the final outcome. Mr W was 
aware he was in arrears and he had a degree of responsibility to engage with Oplo in order 
to seek to resolve his debt. Matters were left to rumble on and so in the end the car was 
repossessed. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with this decision, but I cannot safely conclude that 
Oplo did anything materially wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman