DRN-2538872
The complaint
Mr M complains about a claim for a roof repair administered by AXA Assistance (UK) 
Limited(AXA).
What happened
In November 2019 Mr M contacted AXA to raise a claim on a leak coming through his roof. 
AXA sent out an engineer and the leak was temporarily repaired. Mr M then contacted AXA 
again and the same team were sent out to do a more permanent fix. 
Mr M has now complained that the costs involved in the repair were excessive. As Mr M only 
had limited cover, some of the costs needed to be met by him. Mr Ms main complaint is that 
scaffolding was put up and then not used. So, Mr M raised a complaint with AXA. 
AXA investigated the complaint and partly upheld it. It said that Mr M had originally been told 
his claim wasnt covered, due to the fault being wear and tear. They apologised for this but 
as the claim had been met, AXA didnt find it had any impact on Mr M. AXA went on to reject 
the rest of Mr Ms complaint. It said it had spoken to the engineers that completed the 
second repair, and they had confirmed that scaffolding was required. They listed several 
reasons for this, including health and safety and limited access to certain parts of the house. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so the complaint has now been brought to our service. 
Our investigated looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the business has 
provided a fair response into why the work couldnt be completed by accessing the roof 
through the skylight in the house. He went on to say that a reasonable assumption based on 
the job required is that scaffolding needed to be used.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
How the roof and window were repaired as part of this claim doesnt appear to be in dispute. 
What Mr M does dispute is the cost of the scaffolding being added to the claim, when he 
says it wasnt used. So thats the point Ive investigated and will respond on. 
Having read the terms and conditions of the policy, its clear AXA will only pay the first 
£500.00 of any claim  as they have done in the case of Mr Ms leaking roof. So, Im 
satisfied that this part of the claim has been handled fairly and Mr M was responsible for any 
costs exceeding this amount. 
Mr M appears to except that scaffolding was erected at his property, but he says that it 
wasnt used. Our investigator asked if Mr M had any evidence of this claim, but Mr M hasnt 
supplied anything to date. 
Having not been at the property and observed the work being completed, I find myself 
having to base my opinion on that of the evidence supplied by Mr M, AXA and what I know 
about claims of this type.
AXA went back to the engineers that completed the work and asked if the job couldve been 
completed without the use of scaffolding. Ive reviewed the responses given and they seem 
reasonable to me. The engineers have highlighted the safety aspect of not having 
scaffolding in place when accessing a roof to complete repairs. Given the alternative Mr M 
has suggested was to climb through his skylight, Im satisfied with the engineer and AXAs 
response.
Mr M has gone on to say that although the scaffolding was put up  it then wasnt used. 
Given the reasoning given by the engineer for the need for scaffolding I find it more likely 
that not that when the scaffolding was put up, it was then used. 
Taking all the information into account supplied by both parties, I havent found AXA have 
handled this claim unfairly and it follows that I dont uphold the complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman