DRN-1395048
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited has misled them about the 
amount of 'policy promise' they would receive on maturity of the policy. Standard Life had 
indicated a shortfall, taking into account the promise, despite there being no shortfall on 
maturity and 100% of the promise being paid out the year before. This caused them stress 
and Mr M to work past his retirement to ensure any shortfall would be covered.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an endowment policy for the repayment of their mortgage. The policy 
was set up with a target maturity value of £77,000. In 2000 Mr and Mrs M were notified of a 
possible shortfall. Standard Life introduced a policy promise that, dependent on certain 
criteria being met, it would meet the 2000 projected shortfall on maturity. 
Over the years Mr and Mrs M continued to receive risk warning letters, informing them of a 
high risk of a shortfall on maturity. The same information also notified them of the projected 
upper and lower limits (40%-60%, neither of which were guaranteed) of the policy promise - 
which projected the promise wouldn't be enough to meet that shortfall. From 2017 onwards 
the promise paid out 100%. But Mr and Mrs M's policy information still projected a shortfall. 
So when their policy matured in 2019 and the target sum of £77,000 was met, they 
complained the information they had been sent was misleading, caused stress and Mr M to 
work past his planned retirement. 
Standard Life didn't uphold the complaint as neither the value of the policy or the promise 
could have been known until maturity. Our investigator agreed that Standard Life hadn't 
done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M have asked for an ombudsman's decision. In summary 
they argue:
The figures were seriously mis-leading.
They question why Standard Life continued to quote 40-60% when 100% had been 
paid in the years prior. 
They don't accept there can be a sudden jump in bonus rates from 80-100% - they 
would expect a more gradual increase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1999/2000 the then financial service regulator required all endowment providers to write 
out to policyholders who were relying on the endowment for mortgage repayment purposes 
to indicate what their policy was going to achieve on maturity. That was because the 
regulator had become aware of a large numbers of policyholders experiencing shortfalls in 
the maturity values of their policies. The regulator required projections to be sent on a 
regular basis and for set growth rates to be used of 4%, 6% and 8% (5,7 and 9 if the investment was tax efficient). It's my understanding that providers weren't allowed to use 
rates higher than this, even if their investment performance was better - but they could use 
lower growth rates if that was the expectation of investment returns. 
Standard Life was required to send out projection letters and to use the rates of growth 
prescribed by the regulator. And as far as I'm aware, the required rates have not changed 
since. 
Standard Life introduced a promise to its policyholders, that it would meet the shortfall at 6% 
(in 2000), if its capital reserves and investment returns enabled it to do so. But in order to 
meet that, 6% average growth had to be achieved between the promise being made and the 
maturity of the policy. So their policy meeting the target amount at maturity was dependent 
on two things:
the endowment policy itself achieving a sufficient level of growth to reach £77,000 at 
maturity; or
if the endowment policy didn't have sufficient growth, the promise achieving sufficient 
growth to make up some or all of the shortfall. 
 
If the endowment performed worse than projected in 2000, and/or the promise didn't achieve 
the required 6% growth, Mr and Mrs M's policy would still have matured with a shortfall. 
Mr and Mrs M appear to be fully aware that what their policy achieved was dependent on the 
investment performance of their particular fund; and what the promise achieved was 
dependent on Standard Life's overall financial position. I think it fair to say that neither of 
those things could be guaranteed in any way. And has been seen by the events of 2001, and 
the banking crisis in 2008, the financial market can and does change very quickly with very 
dramatic consequences for investment performance and the financial position of financial 
institutions. I therefore find there is no basis on which to find that Standard Life had misled 
Mr and Mrs M since 2005 about the possible value of their policy and promise, as it 
couldn't know what investment conditions would be in future years (or that a financial crisis 
would happen). 
I do understand the point Mr and Mrs M make about the promise and that it paid out 100% in 
the years prior to the maturity of their policy. But it doesn't necessarily follow that because 
100% was paid in 2017 and 2018 that 100% would be paid in 2019. That was still dependent 
on the necessary criteria being met for 2019 - something that wouldn't have been known 
until 2019. As can be seen from the table provided in the final response, the promise 
payment could fall as well as rise. I think it would have been wrong if Standard Life had 
made an assumption of 100% for 2019 - an assumption that could have had adverse 
consequences for its customers if that had turned out to be incorrect. 
Mr and Mrs M have also queried how the bonus could jump from 80% to 100%. I assume Mr 
and Mrs M mean the promise  and have proceeded on that basis. I'm satisfied Standard Life 
has already provided an adequate explanation for this, and there is little I can add. And such 
jumps in the promise didn't just occur from 2016 to 2017 but also from 2014 to 2015.  As the 
promise is dependent on investment returns and the financial position of Standard Life and 
the reserves it can put aside, I don't find anything untoward about this. 
Having considered the matter carefully, I don't find Standard Life has done anything wrong 
and so I make no award against it. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman