DRN-3950444
The complaint
Ms C is a sole trader. She has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly declined 
her business interruption insurance claim. 
Ms C has been helped in bringing the complaint by a representative. However, I will refer to 
Ms C throughout. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds includes anything done by the underwriting 
syndicate. 
What happened
Ms C held business interruption insurance with Lloyds. She claimed on her policy after her 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
Lloyds declined Ms Cs claim. It said the policy would only provide cover if there had been 
damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to Ms Cs property.
Ms C complained to Lloyds. She didnt think the policy should be read as requiring damage 
and pointed to comments in the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority test 
case.
Lloyds maintained its decision to decline Ms Cs claim as it didnt consider that the 
interruption to her business was as a result of damage to property. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Ms C brought her complaint to our service. Ms C said her 
business had been forced to close by the UK Government and she thought the extra cover 
clause for notifiable disease should provide cover. Ms C said that the clause doesnt state 
that the contingencies listed must be the sole cause of any damage. And that interpretation 
would be nonsensical because the contingences wouldnt result in damage to property. Ms C 
said that exclusion A excludes cover where there has been physical damage which 
contradicts Lloyds meaning of the clause. 
Ms C said that a number of customers visited her premises with symptoms of Covid-19. She 
said a customer, who Ill refer to as Mr M, had symptoms of Covid-19 while at the insured 
premises. Ms C said that she remembered Mr M displaying symptoms at the premises but 
continued to trade as she didnt think they were serious. However, on Mr Ms second visit Ms 
C became more concerned. 
Mr M said he visited Ms Cs premises on 7 March 2020 when his symptoms were a 
headache, high temperature and cough which become worse over the course of a week. He 
said he visited Ms Cs premises again on 14 March 2020 by which time he also had a sore 
throat. Both Ms C and Mr M provided statements to support their account of what happened. 
Ms C has also provided screenshots of phone messages to support that Mr M was at her 
premises and was unwell. 
Ms C also said that statistical analysis would also show it was more likely than not that 
Covid-19 had occurred. Ms C said that applying the Supreme Courts approach - from the 
test case - to causation would mean that the cases at her premises led to the Governments 
decision to require her business to close. 
Our Investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think the policy could fairly be read as requiring damage, but she didnt think Ms C had 
shown it was more likely than not that someone at her business premises had Covid-19 
before her business was required to close. 
Both Lloyds and Ms C disagreed. Lloyds reiterated that the policy required there to have 
been damage. Ms C said that Covid-19 had most likely occurred at her business premises. 
As neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ms Cs business. However, Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms C believes that cover should be provided under the following:
We will indemnify you in respect of damage as defined in this Section directly 
resulting from interruption of or interference with the business during the 
indemnity period in consequence of the following contingencies:
Any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the shop/office
I have therefore focused my decision on this wording.
The policy definition of a notifiable disease includes any human infectious or human 
contagious disease. 
I have considered Ms Cs points that the clause above cant require damage because it 
doesnt make sense. However, I dont believe that I need to make a finding on that 
point. Thats because, even if I was to decide that the policy didnt require damage in 
order to provide cover, I still think Lloyds acted reasonably in declining her claim. Im 
therefore not going to address any of the points put forward by either party on whether 
there needs to be physical damage for the policy to respond. 
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease under the definition in the policy. So - if the policy didnt 
require damage to respond - for this clause to provide cover, I consider there would need to 
be an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ms Cs premises prior to her business being required to 
close. For Covid-19 to have occurred I think it would need to be diagnosable in a person. 
Widespread self-testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce 
a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more 
pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other evidence can be provided that supports, 
on the balance of probabilities, that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the insured 
premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with 
the policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss their policy covers.Ms Cs statement said that her premises held an open day on 7 March 2020 where just over 
100 visitors were served. She said bookings werent taken as it wasnt necessary and her 
business didnt have regular trade. Ms C said her nephew, Mr M, visited the premises on 7 
March and exhibited symptoms of Covid-19. Ms C said that Mr M visited again a week later 
and due to concerns around Mr Ms ongoing symptoms and her customers she decided to 
close the premises on 20 March 2020. 
Mr Ms statement said that he visited Ms Cs premises on 7 March 2020. He said he had an 
intermittent headache throughout the day, along with a temperature and cough. He said 
these symptoms got worse over the course of a week. Mr M said he visited the premises 
again on 14 March 2020. He said he also developed a sore throat on this day. Mr M said he 
continued to go out because he thought it was a cold and didnt associate the symptoms at 
that point as being Covid-19 as he hadnt lost his sense of taste or smell. 
I have considered these statements alongside the screenshots of the phone messages but 
theyre not enough to persuade me that its most likely Covid-19 occurred at Ms Cs 
premises. 
The phone messages indicate that Mr M was due to attend the premises on Saturday. The 
date of this message supports Ms C and Mr Ms account that he attended on 7 March 2020 
which was the opening of the premises. However, even if I accept that Mr M attended the 
premises, Im not persuaded that Ms C has demonstrated that Mr M most likely had Covid-
19. 
The phone messages show that Mr M asked for painkillers on 3 March 2020. However, this 
is four days before he said his symptoms started. So I dont think this is supportive of his 
account. There is another message on 11 March 2020 where Mr M said that he felt okay 
but didnt want any tea. I dont consider this to be enough for me to conclude that it is more 
likely than not that Mr M had Covid-19 at this time. 
Mr M said in his witness statement that he become unwell on 7 March 2020. But while       
Mr Ms symptoms were consistent with those of Covid-19, I have to bear in mind that many 
people who were unwell at the time didnt have Covid-19 and even Mr M said he continued 
to go out because at that time he thought it was a heavy cold. Overall, I dont have enough 
to persuade me that its more likely than not that Mr Ms symptoms were those of Covid-19. 
Therefore, I think its reasonable that Lloyds didnt pay Ms Cs claim under this clause. 
Ms C said she intended to provide a statistical analysis to show its more likely than not 
Covid-19 occurred at her premises. She also said that while the local population is quite 
small, due to its location it is visited by many people from outside of the area. Ms C has not 
provided our service which a statistical analysis report so I have not considered it as part of 
this complaint. I have considered her point about the number of visitors to her premises but 
the prevalence of Covid-19 in the UK at the time isnt enough to demonstrate that its more 
likely than not that Covid-19 occurred at her premises prior to closure as most people didnt 
have Covid-19 at that time. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms C was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont believe that I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman