DRN-3575273
The complaint
Mr C and Miss N complain that they were misled that rates wouldnt increase when they took 
out a variable rate product for their mortgage with Tipton and Coseley Building Society. They 
want to be moved onto the fixed rate product available at that time.
What happened
Mr C and Miss Ns mortgage product was due to expire and they contacted Tipton about 
taking out a new product. They say they were assured that Tipton wouldnt increase its 
interest rates and decided to take out a variable rate product. Tipton increased its rates soon 
after. Mr C and Miss N say they were misled into taking out the product.
Our investigator said Mr C and Miss N took out the product on an execution only basis  that 
is without advice from Tipton. She said Tipton didnt confirm rates wouldnt go up.
Mr C and Miss N didnt agree. They said they were told by a member of Tiptons staff that it 
hadnt put rates up for the whole time shed been there, and that influenced their decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Miss Ns product (a discounted variable rate) was due to expire in early January 
2022. Tipton wrote to them in November 2021 to remind them of this and to set out the 
products currently available.
Mr C and Miss N spoke to Tipton in late December 2021. Theyd chosen a discounted 
variable rate product, but wanted to ask if another product theyd seen on Tiptons website 
was available to them. They asked if interest rates were likely to go up, and what product 
would the staff member choose. Tipton said if they wanted advice theyd need to make an 
appointment. 
Mr C and Miss N spoke to Tipton again in early January 2022. Theyd selected a discounted 
variable rate product. Miss N said they were worried about getting the new product in place 
before their mortgage went onto the standard variable rate. Tipton said it could send them a 
mortgage offer straight away.
Miss N said she was worried about rates increasing during the three-year product term as all 
the talk was about rate rises. She asked how often Tipton changed its rates. The staff 
member said the society didnt have to follow Bank of England rate changes, although this 
could work both ways. She said as changing rates was a business cost the society didnt 
change rates unless it had to. She said shed been there 14 years and not known it do it. 
The staff member said she wouldnt worry too much, but there was no guarantee. In fact she 
said there was no guarantee more than once during the discussion. And said she knew as 
much as they did.
Mr C and Miss N say they relied on this as assurance the rate wouldnt increase. I dont think 
thats reasonable. Ive explained why below.
If Mr C and Miss N were unsure of what to do, they could have taken mortgage advice 
from Tipton or an independent mortgage adviser. Mr C and Miss N went ahead on a non-
advised basis.
Its clear from Mr C and Miss Ns discussions with Tipton that they were aware of the risk 
of rate rises if they took out a variable rate product. If they wanted protection from rate 
rises they could have taken out a fixed rate product.
Although Tiptons staff member said Tipton hadnt changed rates for many years, she 
also said there were no guarantees and that she knew as much as they did about what 
would happen.
Tipton sent an offer of mortgage rate switch letter and the product information sheet 
which both said Tipton had the right to change the interest rate and monthly payments. 
The product information sheet also set out the early repayment charge which would 
apply if they repay the loan during the product term.
I understand that Mr C and Miss N are upset that there was a rate increase so soon after 
they took out the new product, and are no doubt worried about future rate rises. But I think 
this was a risk they were made aware of when they took out the variable rate product. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Tipton to apply a fixed 
rate product to Mr C and Miss Ns account instead of the product they chose.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss N 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman