DRN-3704131
The complaint
Mr Ds complained that the fees MyClaimsSolved Ltd (MCS) charged him for obtaining 
compensation for mis-sold endowment policies were unreasonably high.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr D contacted MCS to see if they could help him claim compensation from an 
insurer Ill call B in respect of two endowment policies hed held with them.  
MCS responded to Mr Ds enquiry by telephone.  They told him they had an excellent 
working relationship with B and were confident theyd be able to help him.  When Mr D 
asked how much their fees were, MCS said they charged 37.5% of any amount recovered, 
plus VAT (a total of 45%).  
MCS sent Mr D their terms and conditions, which Mr D signed and returned to them about 
two weeks after their conversation.  MCS submitted claims to B and, about five weeks later, 
B offered Mr D total compensation of £9,173.02 for the two claims.  Mr D accepted this, and 
B sent that amount to him.
MCS invoiced Mr D for their fees, which totalled £4,127.86 (including VAT).  Mr D 
complained that the fees charged were excessive and said he thought they should be 
capped at 20% plus VAT.  And he said MCS hadnt explained the basis of their charges.
In response, MCS sent Mr D copies of the documentation hed received about their fees and 
confirmed they charged their clients on a no win, no fee basis.  They later provided a 
formal final response confirming what theyd said.
MCSs response didnt satisfy Mr D so he brought his complaint to our service.  In addition to 
complaining about the level of MCSs fee, Mr D complained that MCS hadnt replied to his 
complaint within eight weeks, in accordance with their complaints procedure.
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint and concluded MCS didnt need to do anything 
differently to resolve it.  He said MCS had made their fees clear and Mr D had agreed to pay 
them.  He noted Mr D had commented at the time that the percentage fee was high and that 
MCS had confirmed he didnt have to use their services to make the claim.  And he said that, 
although MCS hadnt dealt with Mr Ds complaint within eight weeks, this hadnt prejudiced 
Mr Ds right to refer it to us.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions Mr D signed.  The section relating to fees says:
If the Claim is successful and Compensation is due to you, the Fees due to us are 
calculated as a percentage of the Compensation you are due to receive.
This is followed by a table, which shows that claims for mis-sold PPI are charged at a rate of 
20% plus VAT (24% in total) and claims for other products  including mis-sold endowments 
for which Mr D was claiming - are charged at 37.5% plus VAT (45% in total).
Theres also an illustration of how charged are calculated.  And a frequently asked questions 
section, including a question which says:
What costs will I have to pay? 
to which the answer is We work on no win, no fee basis.
I think all of that information makes it clear what fee Mr D would pay in the event of a 
successful claim.  
Ive listened to the call between Mr D and MCSs call handler before he signed the terms.  
The call handler made it completely clear the fee would be 37.5% plus VAT (45%) of 
whatever was recovered.  Mr D challenged that and suggested it should be 20%.  The call 
handler explained that level of fee applied only to PPI claims and that endowment claims 
were more expensive because they were more costly to pursue.
And the call handler told Mr D he could choose another company, which may be cheaper, or 
he could pursue the claim himself.  So I think it was made as clear to Mr D as it could be 
what hed pay if he signed the agreement with MCS.  
And Im satisfied that MCS were free to charge a fee at that level.  Mr D has referred to the 
fact the fee should be capped at 20% plus VAT.  But only fees for recovering mis-sold PPI 
were capped when he signed the agreement.  And  as the call handler confirmed - the 
agreement makes clear that different fees were charged for different types of work.  So it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say MCS should apply the PPI level of fee to other work.
Nor do I agree  as Mr D has suggested  that he was bullied by the call handler to sign the 
agreement.  Rather, the call handler agreed to send out the documents for Mr D to read over 
and sign if he wanted to.  He did this about two weeks later. Nothing Ive seen suggested he 
was pressured to do so.  So I dont think MCS need to do any more in respect of this aspect 
of the complaint.
Ive also thought about Mr Ds complaint that MCS didnt respond to his complaint within 
eight weeks.  I agree it would have been helpful if theyd done so.  
But I also agree with our investigator that MCSs delay in doing this didnt impact negatively 
on Mr D.  Its clear he was aware of our service, as he referred to it in his letter of complaint 
to MCS.  And MCS replied to his concerns within a few days  although not in the form of a 
formal final response.  
So the lack of a final response didnt leave Mr D in a position where he didnt know why MCS 
felt they were entitled to the fees theyd invoiced  or mean he wasnt aware of our service.  
Nor have I seen any evidence he was pursued for those fees before his complaint was 
addressed.  That means I dont think Mr D was adversely affected by the delay in receiving 
MCSs final response.  Or that they need to do anything else to resolve his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about MyClaimSolved 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman