DRN-4379268
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the service she received from Euroins AD when she claimed on her 
travel insurance policy for lost baggage and personal possessions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Euroins has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they must provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim. 
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and uphold Miss Bs complaint 
because: 
Miss B asked for help and guidance in October 2022 when completing the claim 
form, but I dont think she received reasonable guidance from Euroins.
Miss B was told she would receive a response to her query within six weeks but 
she didnt hear back from Euroins. This meant Miss B couldnt complete the 
forms. 
As Miss B didnt receive a response, she did her best to complete the forms in 
January 2023, once shed completed her trip. She highlighted to Euroins shed 
not received a response to her questions. 
In January 2023 Euroins asked Miss B for more evidence of proof of ownership, 
despite Miss B having explained in October that she would struggle to do this. 
So, I dont think Euroins engaged with Miss Bs concerns.    
The claim was settled on 3 February 2023. Miss B has raised a separate 
complaint about the value of the settlement. Im not considering the value of the 
settlement as part of this complaint. 
I think if Miss B had received guidance at an earlier stage her claim would likely 
have been settled much sooner and most likely would have been resolved 
around six weeks after shed claimed. So, I think Miss B was out of pocket for the 
value of the settlement between approximately 5 December 2022 and 3 February 
2023. 
Im satisfied that Euroins has had ample opportunity to provide more information 
in support of their position. But, based on the evidence available to me, I dont 
think this claim has been dealt with promptly and fairly. This has had an impact 
on Miss B as she was worried about the financial impact of the theft when she 
was travelling. Its also caused her unnecessary worry and inconvenience. So, I 
think Euroins should pay her £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Euroins needs to put things right by paying Miss B £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by delays in settling her claim and poor customer service. 
They should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on the value of the claim settlement 
from 5 December 2022 to 3 February 2023.
If Euroins AD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about Euroins AD and direct them to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman