DRN-3813227
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Unum Ltd failed to cancel her policy when requested.
What happened
Miss H bought a private dental insurance policy in January 2022 through her employer which 
would cover her from 1 February 2022 to 31 December 2022. 
In early February, Miss H called to discuss the policy but was told that her employer hadnt 
yet sent her details over. This meant Miss H wouldnt be able to make a claim until she was 
set up on the system although she was covered from the start date. 
Unhappy about this, Miss H complained. Unum responded to the complaint and apologised 
for the delay in setting Miss H up on the system. It refunded her premiums between 
February and May 2022 as a gesture of goodwill. And it confirmed that it wasnt able to 
cancel the policy as the policyholder (her employer) wouldnt allow any changes or 
cancellations unless there was a life changing event. 
Miss H referred her complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt think Unum had done anything wrong.
Miss H disagreed and said she wanted a full refund of all premiums as she hadnt used her 
policy. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Unum needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
Unum set Miss H up on its system by the end of February. It accepted that it took longer 
than it should have done to do this. For its delay, it offered a refund of some premiums which 
Miss H accepted. However, it also explained that Miss H couldnt cancel the policy unless 
there was a life changing event.
Ive seen the policy terms and conditions which confirm this:
Cancellation
You cannot change or cancel your membership during the period of cover as shown 
on your policy schedule, unless you leave HSBC or there is a change in your 
circumstances such as birth or adoption of a child, death of a member or dependant, 
marriage or divorce of the member, member entering a civil partnership or a 
dissolution of a members civil partnership.
Based on the above term, Miss H isnt entitled to cancel her policy except for specific 
reasons. 
I appreciate Miss H says she hasnt used the policy, but Unum is still on risk for any eligible 
claims made during the cover period. So Miss H will be covered for any eligible claims she 
makes between now and the end of the policy. As Miss H is covered under the corporate 
dental policy, no changes can be made and she would need to speak to her employer if she 
was unhappy with this. The employer decides when changes can be made, as set out in the 
cancellation section. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I think Unum has acted fairly by refunding some of her 
premiums for the delay in processing her information. But I dont think it has done anything 
wrong by not cancelling her policy and so I wont be asking it to refund any further premiums. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman