DRN-3028661
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) handled a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive only summarised it 
here.
In 2020 Mr F suffered water ingress to the lower ground floor of his home and made 
a claim for storm damage.
RSA arranged for a surveyor to attend the property to assess the claim, Mr F says 
the surveyor indicated it was unlikely RSA would support a claim.
RSA declined the claim saying there was no evidence of a storm on or around the 
date of the occurrence of water ingress. It believed the damage to the property had 
been incurred over a significant period of time rather than as a result of a one-off 
storm and said the water ingress was likely due to a blocked drain or sewer.
Mr F suffered further flooding to his property, and he contacted various authorities to 
try and establish the cause.
In December 2020 a further flood occurred, and the water authority removed debris 
from a sewer which crosses Mr Fs property which were causing a blockage.
Mr F complained to RSA about a lack of contact, information and support.
RSA says it correctly declined the claim and confirmed this to Mr F. And as there 
hadnt been a valid claim it was unable to offer financial assistance, including 
appointing a loss adjuster.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt RSA had fairly declined the claim 
and noted the water authority had removed the blockage which had led to the water 
ingress. And Mr F was making a claim against the water authority.
Mr F asked that an ombudsman decide his case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and largely for the same reasons. There 
is no evidence to support a claim for storm damage. And the cause of the flooding was later 
identified by the water authority as being a large log blocking the main sewer. 
This was no doubt a distressing time for Mr F, with his home suffering from water ingress on 
several occasions. And I acknowledge he wasnt responsible for maintenance of the blocked 
surface water drain.
Mr F has confirmed that the crux of his complaint is not that RSA should cover the cost of 
the damage caused by the floods, but that RSA didnt identify the cause of the flooding. And 
suggested to him it was a maintenance issue. Mr F says RSA shouldve done more to 
identify the cause of the water ingress, including appointing a loss assessor. 
Ive seen evidence that the damage wasnt caused by a one-off event and in the 
circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline a claim for storm 
damage. And having done so it isnt reasonable to expect it to carry out further 
investigations. It is now established the cause of the water ingress was a large log blocking a 
main sewer that crosses Mr Fs property, the maintenance of which falls to the water 
authority. And its not something a claims assessor couldve reasonably foreseen.
Mr F says RSA should refund the premiums he has paid it for the last 10 years because of 
the service he received. I find this wholly disproportionate. RSA has provided insurance 
cover and assessed the claim Mr F made. It fairly declined the claim and suggested the 
issue related to blocked drains or sewers, which ultimately it was. And the water authority 
has taken responsibility for dealing with the blockage and damage it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman