DRN-3612294
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy American International Group UK Limited (AIG) wont replace his mobile
phone. He says repairs completed by AIG under his mobile phone and gadget insurance
have been carried out poorly, which has resulted in damage to his phone.
What happened
Mr D has a mobile phone and gadget insurance policy via his bank, underwritten by AIG.
When his phone screen was damaged, he made a claim under the policy and his phone was
repaired and returned to him.
However, the phone subsequently got wet and water entered the casing. This caused water
damage internally.
Mr D says the repair carried out by AIG previously hadnt been effective, as his phone was
waterproof prior to the repair, and post repair water was able to enter the casing and cause
damage.
Mr D complained to AIG that as a result of their failed repair, his phone had been water
damaged. He also complained about the amount of time he was on hold trying to make a
claim.
AIG apologised for the time Mr D spent on hold. But they didnt uphold the rest of the
complaint. AIG said that sometimes repairs fail, but the warranty for repairs doesnt cover
water damage. They say Mr D deliberately damaged his phone by getting it wet. So, they
didnt agree to repair or replace his phone.
Mr D remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr D had
deliberately placed his phone under a running tap causing damage.
The investigator noted Mr D wanted to test it, and she accepted that the repair had failed.
But she said Mr D had deliberately placed it under the tap, increasing the risk of it being
damaged, so she said AIG hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim. She also recognised
that Mr D had to remain on hold whilst trying to make a claim but said some inconvenience
will always be incurred when needing to make a claim, and AIG had apologised for this.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I provisionally reached a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive provisionally reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr D sent his phone in for repair. Prior to this it was waterproof. After it had been 
repaired by AIG, the phone was returned to Mr D. He says that he was assured by 
the engineer that they had used genuine manufacturer parts, and the phone was 
again waterproof  which was important to Mr D as he says he used it to take 
pictures under water.
However, Mr D ran his phone under a tap and water was able to enter the casing 
causing damage. Therefore, the phone was evidently no longer waterproof post 
repair.
AIG says repairs come with a guarantee, but this excludes water damage. And they 
say Mr D has deliberately damaged his phone by running it under water, so they 
dont think they are responsible for replacing or repairing it. However, Im not minded 
to agree.
The fact here is that, but for the repair carried out by AIG, the phone wouldve been
waterproof. This means that running the phone under a tap for a short period 
shouldnt have caused it to be damaged. In fact, it couldve been, as per the 
manufacturer, submerged in water to a depth of 1.5m for up to 30 minutes.
But because the repair wasnt carried out effectively, this did then allow water to 
enter the casing causing damage. Given the phone was waterproof pre-repair, Mr D 
wouldve reasonably expected it to be waterproof post repair, and able to handle 
being run under a tap for a few seconds (if not considerably more than this).
So, Im not minded to agree that Mr D deliberately damaged the phone. Instead I 
think he had a reasonable expectation that it shouldve been waterproof as it was 
before, after AIG had repaired it.
I also note our investigator mentioned a term in the policy which says:
Failure to Take Reasonable Care of Your Device. If You dont take care of Your 
Device and thereby knowingly put the Device at risk, your claim may be denied.
However, in my view the same point above would apply. Mr D had a reasonable 
expectation that his phone would still be waterproof post repair. So, I dont think 
running it under a tap, means he has put it at risk, when it was otherwise previously 
able to withstand those conditions (and advertised by the manufacture as capable of 
withstanding significantly more water exposure than this).AIG has also said their repairs are guaranteed but this excludes water damage. But 
the terms under Mr Ds insurance policy dont exclude water damage. And whilst the 
repair guarantee itself might not cover that, I dont think that means a lasting and 
effective repair doesnt need to be carried out by AIG in the first place  which it 
hasnt been - as the phone was no longer waterproof.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im minded to conclude AIG need to repair or replace the phone, or if Mr D 
has already replaced it with the same model, reimburse the costs incurred (subject to 
proof of purchase) with 8% interest added from date of payment to date of 
settlement.
I recognise that AIG has apologised that Mr D needed to remain on hold for some 
time when making a clam, and I think an apology is enough for that. But its clear that 
having a device repair which is faulty, which has then caused the phone to be 
damaged has been inconvenient to Mr D. Albeit this is his second rather than main 
phone. But Im also minded to direct AIG to compensate Mr D £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Therefore, I said I was minded to direct AIG to repair or replace Mr Ds phone, or if he had 
already replaced it with the same make and model, to reimburse the cost incurred (subject to 
proof of purchase) with 8% simple interest added from date of payment to date of settlement. 
I was also minded to direct AIG to pay Mr D £50 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr D responded to say he accepted my provisional decision and was happy that someone 
could see his point of view. He also said hed like the phone replaced as he doesnt think it 
can be repaired. 
AIG also responded to my provisional decision, but they didnt agree. They referred to the 
manufacturer website, and guidance, which gave hints on how to maintain the water and 
dust resistance performance, which includes not exposing it to water at force, including from 
a tap, oceans or waterfalls. So, AIG maintained their view that Mr D had deliberately caused 
the damage by not taking care of his device.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, along 
with the responses from both parties. Having done so, my view remains the same.
Firstly, I note Mr D thinks that his device cant be repaired and has therefore requested a 
replacement. However, at this stage thats not known with certainty. So, Im not going to 
direct AIG to replace the phone from the outset.
Instead, AIG will need to establish if it can be repaired, or if it cant be, or they decide not to 
repair it, then they will then need to look to replace it. As mentioned in my provisional 
decision, I said AIG should reimburse Mr D if he had already replaced the device with the 
same make or model (with 8% interest added). But from Mr Ds response, he hasnt already 
replaced it. So, AIG will need to repair or replace it as outlined.
I also acknowledge AIGs additional comments in response to my provisional decision. However, the website referred to mentions tips for maintaining water and dust resistance. 
Within that it says do not expose the device to water moving with force, including ocean 
waves, waterfalls and taps. So, I think here the key part in maintaining water resistance is 
avoiding water at force, based on those examples. 
But Im not persuaded AIG has shown Mr D has exposed his device to water at force, 
instead he says it was run under a normal tap for a couple of seconds. And this could just as 
likely, given it was a bathroom tap, be at regular or low household tap pressure, rather than 
at force.
Id need to be persuaded that it was that action, and that level of force, which caused the 
water to enter the phone casing and cause damage alone  and that it was unrelated and 
unconnected to the repair AIG carried out beforehand. But based on the information 
provided, I dont think AIG has shown that  or consequently it is Mr D that has caused the 
damage on the basis of his actions alone.
Instead, on balance, Im still persuaded that Mr Ds phone was waterproof prior to AIGs 
repair, and not after. And it was this that was the proximate cause of water being able to 
enter the phone casing and causing damage.
If it wasnt for Mr D testing his device, on balance, I think its likely that the first time he was 
to use his device to take pictures under water (which he says is of key importance to him), 
then due to AIGs repair, water wouldve entered the casing causing damage in any event. 
So, although this happened after being run briefly under a normal tap, on balance, I think it 
wouldve happened regardless when exposed to water, and thats most likely due to AIGs 
poor previous repair.
So, my decision remains that AIG need to repair of replace Mr Ds phone. And they also 
need to compensate Mr D £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct American International Group UK 
Limited to:
Repair or replace Mr Ds phone 
Pay Mr D £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman