DRN-3877974
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R purchased a single trip travel insurance policy on 26 June 2022. The policy was to 
cover various pre-trip and post-departure risks  with Mr R due to travel abroad on 4 
September 2022 and return on 18 September 2022.
On 18 July 2022, Mr R was contacted by the tour company he was planning on travelling 
with. It told Mr R that it was unfortunately cancelling his pre-booked tour. The tour company 
said the reason for this was the restrictions currently being imposed by the (country)s 
government on foreign tourists in relation to COVID-19. It said these restrictions meant 
travel was limited, and it wouldnt be able to deliver the type of experience Mr R had paid for. 
The tour operator provided Mr R with a refund for his tour. 
This left Mr R with flights abroad, that he was no longer able to use. Mr R has said he set 
about trying to gain a refund for the cost of the flights  which was £895.11. But he was 
unsuccessful in doing so. Mr R said the company he had booked the flights through wouldnt 
provide a refund. And he had unsuccessfully attempted to receive a refund through his credit 
card provider too. Because Mr R hadnt been successful in gaining a refund for his flights, he 
made a claim for their cost, minus his excess, under his travel insurance policy.
AXA considered Mr Rs claim and declined it. It said that for Mr R to successfully claim under 
his policy, his trip had to have been cancelled for one of the listed reasons in the policy. AXA 
said the reason Mr Rs trip was cancelled wasnt one of those listed. And so, there was no 
cover that could respond in the circumstances.
Mr R didnt consider this to be fair. He explained that he did have cancellation and 
curtailment cover under his policy  and noted that the cancellation cover was for necessary 
and unavoidable losses. Mr R said that was the case in his situation. Mr R said his tour 
provider had cancelled his trip. And he couldnt use his flights as a result  particularly 
because the country he was due to visit, was only allowing visitors who were travelling with a 
registered and approved travel company in the relevant country. 
AXA maintained its position on the matter, but offered Mr R £50 compensation, for some 
delays in the progression of his claim. Mr R remained unhappy. And so, he referred his 
complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that the reason Mr R had to cancel his trip wasnt something listed as covered in Mr Rs 
policy. Because it wasnt something listed as covered, AXA had acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining the claim. Our investigator also thought the £50 compensation offered was fair. 
Mr R didnt agree. Mr Rs concerns about the matter remained the same. He noted that the 
point in taking out insurance was to make sure he was covered when situations like the one 
he was in occurred.
Mr R also said that it had taken AXA so long to provide an answer on his claim, that he 
missed out on the option of a credit voucher from his airline company. Mr R also reiterated 
the time and effort that had been involved in him saving up and purchasing his flights, and 
the upset that he had experienced as a result of losing the cost of the flights. 
Because Mr R didnt agree, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that AXAs offer of £50 is fair. And I dont require it to do 
anything more. 
 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr R. Its clear he feels strongly about the matter. 
And I can understand why  given his explanation around the holiday and the saving 
involved to book and plan the trip. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered 
all information and evidence when coming to my decision. Ive explained the reasoning for 
my decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether AXA acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Mr Rs claim. And Im satisfied it did act in line with this. 
Ive reviewed Mr Rs policy documentation. As is common with insurance policies of this 
nature, Mr Rs policy provides cover for costs such as irrecoverable flight costs, where the 
cancellation is necessary and avoidable, because of one of the cancellation reasons listed 
within the cancellation section of the policy. If the reason for cancelling the trip is listed within 
the cancellation section, then the loss is covered. But if the reason for cancellation isnt 
listed, then the loss isnt covered, and the policy wont respond.
The reasons listed as covered under the cancellation section of Mr Rs insurance policy 
arent unusual. They include cancellation as a result of injury of the policyholder or travelling 
companion, personal quarantine or redundancy. As well as cancellation due to the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) or other regulatory authority in the country 
of travel advising against all, or all but essential travel in the 21 days prior to the departure 
date (other than for a pandemic).
Ive thought about whether Mr Rs reason for cancelling his trip fell into any of the reasons 
listed as covered. And Im satisfied it didnt. Mr Rs need to cancel his trip was due to the 
tour company no longer offering the package. There wasnt any FCDO or regulatory 
authority in the country Mr R was due to travel in advising against all, or all but essential 
travel. And it wasnt in the 21 days prior to departure. Mr Rs trip was cancelled in July 2022, 
with him due to be traveling in September 2022. 
Because Mr Rs reason for cancelling the trip doesnt fall within any of the events listed as 
covered under the cancellation section, Im satisfied AXA acted fairly in declining Mr Rs 
claim under this section. Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr Rs policy, to see whether there is any other 
section relevant to the loss. And Im satisfied there isnt. So, I dont find AXA has acted 
unreasonably in its decision to decline Mr Rs claim.
Mr R has raised concerns about the time AXA took to consider his claim. So, Ive considered 
this element of his complaint. I can see that Mr R made his claim on 23 July 2022 and 
provided supporting documentation the following day. On 3 August 2022, Mr R was told he 
would receive an update in 55 days time. But Im aware it did take AXA longer than this to 
update Mr R and provide him with the outcome of his claim. It took AXA until 26 September 
2022 to do so. 
AXA has accepted that it took a long time to advise Mr R as to the outcome of his claim. And 
I agree. AXA has offered Mr R £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused to him. So, Ive thought about whether this is a fair and reasonable offer. And I think 
it is.
I say this because I think it fairly recognises that Mr R was waiting longer than expected for a 
claims outcome. And he had to chase the matter following the 55 days elapsing. As I think 
this offer is fair, I require AXA to pay Mr R this £50 compensation, if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Mr R has said that the time it took AXA to make a decision on his claim, meant he was no 
longer able to accept a credit voucher the company he booked his flights through offered to 
him. But Im aware that Mr Rs policy documents do explain that losses recoverable 
elsewhere arent covered by the policy. It was Mr Rs choice not to accept the credit voucher 
when it was offered to him in July 2022. And I cant see that when Mr Rs claim was declined 
around two months later, that Mr R got in touch with the flight company, to ask for the 
voucher then. So, there isnt any firm evidence that the offer wouldnt have still be available 
to Mr R at that point.
In any event, the flight company is separate to AXA. And so are its decision on whether to 
offer the voucher or not. This isnt something AXA would have been aware of, or responsible 
for. So, I dont hold it accountable for anything in relation to the credit voucher.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £50 AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered Mr R is 
fair and reasonable. So, I require it to pay Mr R this, if it hasnt done so already. I dont 
require it to do anything more than that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman