DRN-3350819
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has repeatedly blocked transactions on his account.
What happened
Mr W has three debit cards for his account, as he has given power of attorney to two 
members of his family. Since 2019, Mr W has had problems with transactions he, or family 
members of his behalf, have tried to make being blocked by Lloyds. He considers that they 
are being blocked excessively and wants Lloyds to stop this from happening.
Lloyds looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt agree it had done anything wrong in relation 
to the transactions. It said this was an automated system and that if transactions were 
blocked it was because they required further checks. It said the blocks were part of its 
standard fraud procedures to protect the account and it couldnt guarantee this wouldnt 
happen again.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service, represented by a family member. They explained 
the distress caused to them and Mr W by Lloyds repeated blocking of transactions and the 
health conditions in the family that have made this situation more difficult. They want our 
service to determine why so many payments are blocked and stop this happening at the 
current frequency. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that the checks were there for 
security reasons and he wouldnt be able to stop Lloyds blocking the transactions and 
carrying out these checks. Mr Ws representative asked further questions and said he and 
the other party shouldnt be made to feel like a security risk when theyre using the power of 
attorney and making transactions for Mr W. He asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr W and his familys frustration at the number of transactions being blocked on his 
cards. And considering the health condition Mr W suffers from, I do appreciate this will be 
more distressing for him. However Im in agreement with our investigator that based on the 
situation and evidence we hold, our service isnt able to conclude that Lloyds has done 
something wrong in this case.
The system that is blocking Mr Ws transactions is Lloyds automated fraud system. So this 
has been designed by Lloyds to pick up certain types of transactions. It has a legal and 
regulatory obligation to monitor accounts and the payments made from them. The algorithms 
that sit behind this system are commercially sensitive and Lloyds is entitled to set these as it 
considers appropriate. Its not the role of our service to comment on this system and we 
dont have the power to tell Lloyds how it should operate.
I have however looked to see if theres any evidence of a failure or error in the system. But I 
havent seen any evidence of this. I appreciate that there have been a number of blocks on 
Mr Ws transactions, but theres nothing to suggest these were due to something going 
wrong in the system. Simply, its acting as Lloyds intended and in the case of Mr Ws 
account, this means hes having more transactions blocked than he and his family consider 
acceptable. Considering the impact the blocks have on Mr W I can understand why they feel 
this way, but I cant instruct Lloyds to operate differently due to this.
The system is in place to protect Mr Ws account and funds. So our service cant and 
wouldnt tell Lloyds to not use its normal fraud systems on this account. After all, while I 
accept he hasnt been the victim of fraud, if he was, hed want the system to protect him. 
And Lloyds would be responsible for not taking the level of care it has deemed appropriate 
when it put these systems in place, if it didnt use them as standard for Mr W. 
As I havent concluded Lloyds has made any mistakes in relation to the transactions, I cant 
then award Mr W any compensation for the distress caused. I accept he and his family have 
both been distressed and inconvenienced by the process, but I cant fairly ask Lloyds to 
compensate them for this when no errors have been made. Its really for them to decide 
whether, considering theyre now aware of how Lloyds will operate these systems and 
Mr Ws cards, they do want to continue their banking relationship with Lloyds. As it has said, 
it is possible  even likely  that transactions will continue to be blocked going forward, as 
the account will continue to be used in the same way, with the same automated fraud 
system.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman