DRN-2299557
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as First Direct removed visibility of his 
account from internet banking and hasnt provided a reasonable explanation for its actions.
What happened
Mr C had an Everyday Saver account with First Direct. He opened the account in 2007. He 
says he became concerned in 2019 when he was checking his accounts and couldnt find 
any trace of the account on his internet banking. He contacted First Direct about this. He 
says it told him the account had become dormant and that was why it was no longer visible 
on his internet banking.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response. He complained to First Direct. It investigated his 
complaint. It said that its policy was to mark accounts as dormant where they hadnt been 
used. It said it had written to Mr C in 2014 and again in 2017 asking him to contact it if he 
didnt want his account to be marked as dormant. It had also told him that after fifteen years 
the moneys in any dormant accounts were transferred to the governments dormant account 
scheme. It had asked him to contact it, but he hadnt done that.
First Direct said that when Mr C contacted it in 2019, it had reactivated his account. This 
meant the account was made visible on internet banking after that date.
First Direct also said it had moved to a new online banking platform in June 2019. At that 
time any accounts which had a dormant marker were no longer visible to customers. First 
Direct said it had reviewed this in November 2019 and had decided to change its approach. 
And, after this change, dormant accounts would be visible on internet banking, provided the 
customer had other active accounts.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this response. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said First Direct had sent Mr C letters in 2014 
and 2017 asking him to contact it about the status of his account. Mr C hadnt done that. But 
our investigator thought First Direct had given him enough detail about its dormant account 
policy at the time. If he had wanted to, he couldve raised further questions. Since the date 
hed complained First Direct had provided him with more details about its policy. It wasnt for 
our service to ask First Direct to change its policies or commercial decisions it had made. 
Mr C didnt accept what our investigator said. He said that First Direct had discussed his 
accounts with him on numerous occasions during the period since 2014. It had never said to 
him that the account was dormant or raised the issue with him. He said it should also have 
been clear to First Direct that he was still using his internet banking. 
In these circumstances, Mr C said First Direct should have ensured that the account was not 
made dormant. He pointed to the fact that First Direct had changed its policy. He said this 
was evidence that it had been wrong in the first place. He also said that the previous policy 
was unfair to customers with vulnerabilities. He thought First Direct had a responsibility to be 
clear, to do what they said they were going to do and to be logical and factually correct. 
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what First Direct told Mr C about the status of his account.
It told him in 2014 it was planning to restrict access to his account because he hadnt made 
any transactions on it for some time. It also said, in 2014, he wouldnt be able to make any 
further transactions on the account and it would no longer be visible on internet banking. If 
he wasnt happy about this, he was given various options to reactivate the account.
Mr C says he doesnt recollect getting this letter. First Direct has provided evidence the letter 
was sent to Mr C at his address. So, on balance, Im satisfied Mr C wouldve received it. 
First Direct has also provided a copy of its terms and conditions. These state that where a 
savings account hasnt been used for two years, it can be suspended  which means that 
payments cannot be made into or out of the account. So, I dont think First Direct did 
anything wrong when it applied the inactive marker to the account and wrote to Mr C to tell 
him it had done that.
Mr C didnt respond to the 2014 letter and he didnt carry out any further transactions on the 
account  until after the complaint was raised in 2019. 
First Direct wrote again to Mr C in 2017. This letter was different to the previous letter. It said 
no transactions had been carried out on the account for over five years. If, after fifteen years, 
no transactions had been carried out, the account balance might be sent to the 
governments dormant account scheme. That didnt mean Mr C wouldnt still be entitled to 
the money in the account, but First Direct asked him to contact it if he wanted to prevent that 
happening.
Mr C didnt respond to this letter either. This meant that the dormant marker which First 
Direct had placed on the account remained in place. The dormant marker meant that no 
transactions could be carried out. Mr C didnt seek to carry out any transactions until after he 
raised his complaint.
Having read the letter sent in 2017 I think the references to the governments dormant 
account scheme are unfortunate  even if they are factually accurate. The guidance for that 
scheme sets out a number of checks that First Direct would be required to carry out before 
the balance in Mr Cs account couldve been transferred. The terms and conditions for the 
account also made clear that he would get further notice before that wouldve happened. 
But, despite my comments on the content of the 2017 letter, I think its purpose was clear. It 
was to alert Mr C to the fact that First Direct wanted him to contact it  so that he could 
reactivate the account.
Mr C says he was in contact with First Direct on several occasions since 2014 and it never 
mentioned the dormancy marker to him. But, having thought about this, unless Mr C was 
contacting First Direct specifically to talk about his Everyday Saver account, I dont think it 
was reasonable to expect it to raise the matter.  So, I dont think First Direct did anything wrong when it put the dormancy marker on the 
account. 
Ive then considered the fact that First Direct removed the account from visibility on internet 
banking. As mentioned above First Direct said it would do this in 2014. Mr C says it shouldnt 
have done this.
I asked First Direct to provide further details about this. It says that when it placed the 
dormancy marker on the account in 2014 it wouldnt have been visible in internet banking 
from a date shortly after it sent the letter to Mr C in 2014. 
First Direct changed its internet banking system in 2019. Its told Mr C about this. Having 
read the letters it isnt clear what happened at this date. The letters said that the changes in 
June 2019 meant that dormant accounts were no longer visible on internet banking. But First 
Direct has subsequently confirmed to this service that that wasnt a change. It says accounts 
wouldnt have been visible even as far back as 2014, once the dormancy marker was 
applied. Thats also consistent with what it said in the 2014 letter.
First Direct also said that after November 2019, a further change was being introduced 
which would mean that inactive accounts would no longer be restricted and would remain 
visible on internet banking  provided the customer had other active accounts.
Having considered the clarification from First Direct, Im satisfied, going forward, that Mr Cs 
Everyday Saver account will remain visible on internet banking, even if that account 
becomes inactive again, provided that he has other active accounts. But, Mr Cs complaint is 
that it shouldnt have been removed from visibility in the first place.
As our investigator said, its not our role to require a business to change its systems or 
procedures. We can however look at those systems and procedures and say whether they 
have caused the customer to be treated unfairly or unreasonably.
Having considered this, on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr C was treated unfairly or 
reasonably. Ill say why.
It is the case that the account hadnt been used in the period since before 2014. First Direct 
had written to Mr C in 2014 and again in 2017 to tell him that the account was inactive and 
as a result he couldnt make payments into it or take payments from it. And, the letter in 
2014 said it would no longer be visible in internet banking. So, I think it had taken reasonable 
steps to bring these matters to his attention.
Mr C says he was alarmed when he couldnt find the account on his internet banking list. He 
says he started to question himself about whether the account existed or if hed closed it. 
And, he says that First Directs policy isnt fair to customers who may have other 
vulnerabilities.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. First Directs approach to inactive accounts is set out 
in its terms and conditions. And, as Ive said, it does send a letter to its customer when an 
account has been inactive. It also sends further letters after a period of time, as it did here, if 
the account remains inactive. So, even though accounts may not be visible on internet 
banking, I think First Direct takes reasonable steps to bring the status of the account to the 
customers attention.
Having said that, I can understand why Mr C says he was concerned when he couldnt find 
the account on his internet banking. When he was looking for the account on his internet 
banking, it was over two years since hed last been asked to contact First Direct about the account. And it was at least seven years since hed carried out any transactions on the 
account. But I can see that when he contacted First Direct it was able to give him immediate 
reassurance about why the account wasnt appearing on internet banking and what he 
needed to do to reactivate it. 
It is also the case that interest was still being paid on the account. So, Mr C hasnt lost out as 
a result of the dormancy marker or the actions First Direct took in this case. And, I dont think 
it needs to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc 
trading as First Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman