DRN-1537223
The complaint
Mr L complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to replace all the parts in his boiler -
following a repair claim on his policy.
What happened
Mr L had a British Gas Homecare insurance policy which he could claim for boiler repairs on. 
Mr L made a claim for a repair in 2013. This was completed but Mr L suspects one of the 
parts that had been removed hadnt been refitted. He says this because when his boiler was 
being serviced in 2019, he was told its missing.
The part was no longer available, and the boiler was condemned and had to be replaced.
British Gas say they believe the part had completely corroded away and that there was 
some debris at the bottom of the boiler which they felt could be the remnants of it. Mr L 
believes thats implausible, so he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mr Ls complaint. They agreed with Mr L that it was 
implausible for the part to have completely corroded. The investigator also said there was no 
further evidence of corrosion as the remnants had apparently been hoovered up.
For those reasons the investigator felt British Gas had likely not replaced the part. They 
suggested Mr L be compensated by £100. The investigator didnt feel British Gas should be 
liable for replacing the boiler, noting that it was already very old and would likely have 
needed to be replaced in the near future anyway.
Mr L accepted the investigators recommendation but British Gas did not. They believe the 
part could have corroded and sent further information, including pictures. These didnt 
change the investigators mind, so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons. Indeed, I 
also note in their final response letter, British Gas say the part may not have been replaced 
so it isnt clear why theyre contesting it now. I have to decide whether its most likely thats 
the case or whether it corroded away almost entirely in a six-year period.
British Gas has said atmospheric conditions can lead to this happening but hasnt provided 
any supporting evidence for this. They say it is a substantial part which is 3mm thick and 
said there were signs of corroded metal that were hoovered up. But Mr L has sent a picture 
showing debris at the bottom of the boiler and none of it looks to me like it could be 
remnants of such an item. Im also unsure why British Gas would hoover some of the debris, 
the debris it is now relying on, but still leave some. And there is nothing in the job sheet to 
confirm this either.
So, I dont think British Gas has shown its more likely to have corroded and since they 
accept it may not have been replaced it seems to me that thats more likely. And I agree it 
would seem very unusual for a part to completely corrode without signs. British Gas has 
pointed out what looks like some small areas of rust but that doesnt indicate to me that there 
was the possibility of one particular part disintegrating entirely  Id expect there to be other 
areas with much more significant degradation to suggest that.
For completeness, I agree that Mr L isnt entitled to the cost of a new boiler for this as it 
seemingly wouldve required replacement in the near future regardless, and that had been 
recommended to him previously. Its also not something his policy covers in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
British Gas to pay Mr L £100 compensation for trouble and upset caused by this matter.
My final decision
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to put things right as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman