DRN-3322098
The complaint
Mr R complains that Domestic & General Insurance PLC (D&G) unfairly declined his claim 
for a broken television under his Sony protection policy. He would like D&G to repair or 
replace his broken television.
Mr R is represented in his claim. But Ill only refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr R took out a Sony protection policy with D&G in August 2021. The plan covers 
mechanical and electrical breakdown, labour charges and accidental damage.  
On 14 September 2021 Mr R said his son accidentally ran into the television and knocked it 
over, causing the screen to crack. So he reported the damage to D&G on 15 September 
2021. On 20 September 2021 Mr R sent D&G the claim form and the proof of purchase 
receipt for the television. This showed that it had been purchased in August 2019. 
During the initial notification call, D&G said the claim would be covered. But later they 
declined the claim because theyd been given an incorrect purchase date (19 September 
2020) when the policy had been set up.
D&G also said that although Mr R had now told them that the television had a five-year 
warranty, this was never disclosed during the sale. They felt that the policy terms and 
conditions made it clear that all information provided must be clear, factual and not 
misleading. They said that this was important because they dont provide cover for items 
outside the manufacturers warranty. And therefore wouldnt have covered the television 
from the start if theyd known how old it was at the policys point of sale. 
D&G said that as the television was actually purchased in 2019, the manufacturers warranty 
wouldve expired by August 2021 when the policy started. They declined the claim, cancelled 
the policy and refunded the insureds premium. 
Unhappy with D&Gs decision, Mr R complained. He called D&G back the same day to let 
them know that his television had a five-year warranty. D&G said theyd now been told about 
this during the policy sale call. 
D&G discussed the claim and their decision to decline it with Mr R on 22 September 2021. 
And issued their final response to the complaint confirming the declination on the same date.
Mr R was unhappy with their decision. So brought his complaint to this service. 
D&G cancelled the policy on 25 September 2021. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that shed evidenced that 
Mr R did have a warranty  which was a requirement for the policy  at the point the policy 
was sold. So she felt that D&G shouldve accepted the claim. To put things right, she 
recommend that D&G settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. She said that as the premiums for the policy had been refunded, Mr R should pay 
back the refund. 
D&G didnt agree with our investigator. They felt that the fact that a claim had been made a 
month after the policy had been purchased indicated a false claim. 
Our investigator told D&G that as they hadnt dealt with the declination as a false claim, or 
mentioned this to Mr R, this service couldnt consider that allegation in relation to this 
complaint. 
D&G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigators recommendations. Ill 
explain why.
Ill first consider the rationale D&G gave for declining the claim. Then Ill consider whether 
they acted reasonably.
What was D&Gs rationale for declining the claim?
D&Gs position is that they fairly declined the claim due to the broken television not being 
covered by the manufacturers warranty at the point that the cover under the policy started.
They said that Mr R gave the purchase date for the television as 19 September 2020, not the 
correct date of 17 August 2019. They said that as a business theyd stopped offering cover 
for televisions outside of the manufacturers period, with one exception. They said that the 
exception was if the television has been purchased from certain providers: where we can 
check the details given by the customer. And that this was due to a high number of 
fraudulent claims. They said that they agreed to provide cover for Mr R as they were led to 
believe that his television was still in its manufacturers warranty period. They said that if Mr 
R had given them the correct purchase date at the point the policy was sold they wouldve 
declined cover as they dont offer policies for televisions outside of the manufacturers 
warranty period.
D&G said that Mr R had been less that truthful when giving them details in relation to the 
policy and the claim. They said that as well as giving the wrong purchase date, hed also told 
them that theyd previously replaced his equipment, which they hadnt. They said that hed 
never disclosed the five-year guarantee he said he had. And that theyd looked at the 
website of the store the television had been purchased from. And it had confirmed that only 
a one-year manufacturers warranty was provided with Mr Rs television.
D&G also said that the terms and conditions of the policy were clear that a customer must 
provide correct information. But that incorrect information had been provided by Mr R. They 
felt he shouldve provided the correct purchase date. D&G felt that theyd correctly rejected 
the claim and cancelled the policy. 
Ill now consider whether D&G acted reasonably when they declined the claim for the 
reasons they gave. 
Did D&G act reasonably when they declined the claim?Ive carefully considered whether D&Gs decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable. In order to fairly assess the complaint, Ive listened to all the call recordings 
provided. And reviewed all the documentation provided by both parties.
I note that our investigator has independently verified that the television was purchased in 
August 2019 and that it had a five-year warranty provided by the manufacturer. This 
warranty had started at the time of purchase and would run until August 2024. 
My starting point was the policy terms and conditions. I acknowledge that these do state, as 
D&G have noted:
All information you give must be true, factual and not misleading.
The policy terms and conditions also explain what the policy covers. This says:
Accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee) Both during and after 
the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, if your product suffers 
accidental damage (so that the product is no longer in good working order), we will (at our 
option) authorise a repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement product. 
So Im satisfied that the terms and conditions do require a customer to provide correct 
information. And I can also see that accidental damage cover can be provided after a 
manufacturers warranty has expired. I appreciate that this doesnt necessarily mean that 
D&G would willingly take on a new policy where the manufacturers warranty has expired. 
In the August 2021 point of sale call, the agent explained what the policy covered. And 
asked when the television was purchased. Mr R said it was bought on 19 September of last 
year. At the time of the call this wouldve been 19 September 2020.
I can confirm that during the August 2021 call Mr R did effectively tell D&G that the television 
was purchased in 2020. But he didnt tell D&G that he had a five-year warranty. And at no 
stage during the call did D&G ask Mr R how long the warranty on his television was. They 
simply assumed that it was a one-year warranty that was about to expire. From what I heard, 
I dont consider that Mr R was trying to gain any sort of advantage, or purposefully mislead 
D&G about when his television was purchased. Im satisfied that he just made a mistake. 
During the call on 22 September 2021, Mr R was told that his claim had been declined as 
the incorrect purchase date had been provided at the start of the policy. And because D&G 
dont cover products with expired manufacturers warranties. But Mr R told D&G on the same 
day that his television had a five-year warranty. D&G said they hadnt been told this when 
the policy was sold. From what Ive seen, they first heard about the five-year warranty on 22 
September 2021.   Ive not seen that D&G asked for evidence of the five-year warranty 
before issuing their final response letter, even though Mr R had referenced it in a call to 
them. Im surprised they didnt ask for this evidence, given their reason for declining the 
claim was that the television hadnt been under manufacturers guarantee at the time the 
policy was started.
I acknowledge that D&G feel that Mr R shouldve told them about the five-year guarantee 
when he set up the policy. But I dont agree that he wouldve realised this was important. 
And they didnt ask him about it. I consider that if they needed confirmation of a 
manufacturers warranty before providing cover, they shouldve asked for it during the point 
of sale call. 
In any event, at the point of sale, Mr Rs television was still under warranty. So even though 
Mr R gave D&G the wrong purchase date for the television, Im not persuaded that this was what led to cover being provided. I consider that cover wouldve been provided anyway if 
D&G had been told about the correct date of purchase and the five-year guarantee. I say this 
because D&G said that the only exception for covering televisions outside the 
manufacturers included guarantee period was where we can check the details given by the 
customer. Im satisfied that we were able to check the details given by the customer. And 
therefore Im satisfied that cover wouldve been provided even if all of the correct details had 
been given at the point of sale. 
Ill now consider D&Gs position after they received evidence of the five-year warranty.
D&Gs current position
In early February 2022, D&G requested, and this service provided, proof of the five-year 
warranty. At this point they noted that the warranty didnt include accidental damage. They 
felt that Mr R wouldve know that he already had cover with another provider. So they 
questioned why Mr R had taken out the policy with them and then made a claim for 
accidental damage just 20 days later.  
Our investigator noted that D&G had said they only provide cover to televisions which have a 
warranty. And said that most warranties don't provide the same cover an insurance policy 
does, such as accidental damage. So she didnt agree that it was unusual that Mr R had 
taken out his D&G policy alongside his five-year warranty.
D&G felt that it was possible that the policy had been taken out because the television was 
already damaged. They felt that if Mr R had believed he could benefit from having accidental 
damage cover, he wouldve taken the D&G policy out at the same time as he bought the 
television.
Our investigator didnt agree that there was enough evidence to consider that the television 
had been damaged before the policy was taken out. And she was still satisfied that shed 
reached a fair conclusion on the complaint, because D&G had declined the claim due to the 
lack of warranty, which shed shown wasnt the case. She said that if D&G felt that Mr R had 
made a false claim, theyd have to let Mr R know and give him the chance to respond. She 
said that it wasnt the role of this service to look at an allegation of a false claim which hasn't 
been investigated and the consumer doesn't know about.
I can confirm that I agree with our investigator here. I have looked at the details presented 
for this complaint, including the reasons D&G gave Mr R for the declination on 22 September 
2021. Im not in a position to consider any new reasons D&G consider they may have to 
decline the claim.
In summary, based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that D&G acted unfairly when they 
declined Mr Rs claim on the basis that he didnt have a warranty at the time he bought the 
policy. 
Putting things right
I require Domestic & General Insurance PLC to settle the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions.
Mr R must pay back to Domestic & General Insurance PLC the premium of £6.57 which was 
refunded to him.My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons above. Domestic & General Insurance PLC must 
carry out the action detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman