DRN-2834325
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs H, as executors of Mrs Bs (their mothers) estate, complain that she was 
given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, referred to as 
the business.  
In short, they say the plan carried too much risk given her age and lack of investment 
experience. They maintain that she wouldve received better returns, if shed invested in 
deposit-based account.
What happened
In late October 2008, Mrs B was advised to invest £50,000 into a Guaranteed Investment 
Plan (the GIP). Upon surrender she received £52,050. The GIP was considered a 
cautious/medium risk product and had a Money Back Guarantee, but only if the investment 
remained in place for five years.  
It was recorded that Mrs B was 79 years of age, retired and generally in good health. She 
received a pension income and an income from savings, with a net monthly disposable 
income of £860. It was recorded that Mrs B had a cautious/medium risk appetite. 
It was also recorded that Mrs B had £138,439 in savings held on deposit and £30,000 in 
single company shares. After investing she still had access to just under £85,000. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. It maintained that the advice was suitable for Mrs 
B, and the GIP matched her attitude to risk and investment experience. Mrs H was also 
present at the second of two meetings, before Mrs B decided to go ahead with the 
recommendation.
Unhappy with the business response, Mr B then referred the complaint to our service.   
One of our investigators having considered the complaint initially thought it should be 
upheld, on the basis that a cautious/medium risk product was too much risk for Mrs B. But 
having considered the business response he was persuaded that the recommendation was 
suitable.   
Whilst he (initially) thought that Mrs B shouldve been advised to invest in the lowest risk-
based investment, hes now satisfied that the cautious/medium risk category, which is just 
above cautious  generally meaning a deposit based/capital guaranteed investment  was 
appropriate. The GIP was also guaranteed to at least return Mrs Bs capital after five years, 
which is an added level of security, therefore, the recommendation was suitable. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he doesnt think the investigator 
has taken into account all the main points. The business recommended a long-term product 
to someone whose medium to short term health was in decline. It was inappropriate to 
recommend a product to their mother who was in her 80s. The business shouldve done 
more to review the GIP. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators last view for much the same reasons. Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im not persuaded that 
the recommendation to invest in the GIP was unsuitable. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr B and Mrs 
Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, 
as a discourtesy. Im also very sorry for the loss of their mother, I appreciate it must be 
difficult for them. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr B and Mrs H and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that the 2008 
recommendation to invest £50,000 in the GIP was unsuitable. 
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mrs B to arrive at the conclusion that she 
was a cautious/medium risk investor. I note it was out of a set of available options 
(Cautious, Cautious/Medium, Medium, Medium/Adventurous, and Adventurous), and 
was akin to a score of two out of five on a risk scale. It was the next rung up from cautious, 
which was generally deposit based. 
I note the business said:
Cautious is deposit based only and then cautious/medium which covers a number of 
different funds within that category. In this case, given the responses to the Risk profile 
questions as you have highlighted, the adviser recommended the Guaranteed Investment 
Plan to ensure the capital was safe, it is the amount above this level that was subject to 
fluctuations. Therefore, the GIP was a low risk product with a capital guarantee and 
therefore offered less risk than a 50/50 WMA Bonds comparison would with no guarantee.
Im aware that Mrs B, compared to other investors, described herself as fairly cautious. She 
tended to disagree that she was willing to accept the possibility of greater losses in order to 
achieve greater gains. She also strongly agreed with having her investment money safe, 
even if it meant lower returns.  
In my opinion her answers indicated that she was willing to take some risk with her 
investment in order to make a gain and was generally aware that her investments could go up or down  which I dont think is at odds with her assessed risk rating. Despite what Mr B 
now says, Im mindful that Mrs B was prepared to invest for five years or more, with the 
possibility of achieving better returns than her deposit-based account.  Im not persuaded 
that Mrs B was risk averse, in other words, that she wasnt willing to take any risk at all with 
her money in order to make a gain. 
I note that a cautious/medium risk investor was described by the business as follows:
likely to accept some risk with your longer-term investments for growth or income if this 
would give you the potential for higher returns. You would probably feel comfortable with an 
investment that includes a combination of stock market linked investments and fixed interest 
securities, to reduce the potential amount and frequency by which the value of the 
investment may go up and down. You understand and accept that by reducing the potential 
risks you also reduce the potential gains and accept on final encashment you could get back 
less than you have invested.
Given Mrs Bs financial circumstances, I dont think that was unreasonable given their 
objectives. Im also satisfied that she was made aware of the general risks involved, i.e. that 
she might only get her capital back after five years. 
I note the business suggests that the recommendation  which was a cautious/medium risk 
investment  broadly matched Mrs Bs attitude to risk. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, Im unable to disagree with this conclusion. Im mindful the business says that the 
GIP had a mix of Equities and Gilt and Fixed Interest stock with the potential for long-term
growth and reflects a cautious/medium risk profile. In any case, Im not persuaded that Mrs B 
took more risk than was reasonable for her in the circumstances. 
I should make clear that Im not specifically looking at whether Mrs B was a cautious/medium 
risk investor or whether the recommendation was. Im considering if the recommendation 
was generally suitable for her. Notwithstanding the points made by Mr B, its not for us to risk 
rate the funds/investments. In this instance the investment was classed as presenting a 
cautious/medium risk  suitable for a cautious/medium risk investor  Ive no reason, given 
the business explanation, to think this was incorrect. 
I appreciate Mrs B probably didnt have actual investment experience  despite holding 
shares which I understand she may have inherited from her husband  but on balance, Im 
satisfied the recommendation met her objective for capital growth, and that she was willing 
to take a risk  with a portion of her money  to achieve that objective. Im unable to say that 
the recommendation didnt meet her needs, or that she wasnt in a position to take a 
cautious/medium risk  on a scale that goes up to adventurous  with a portion of her 
money. 
I also dont think that in 2008 Mrs B invested too much of her available capital. I note she 
invested £50,000 from her £138,439  still leaving just under £85,000 on deposit in case of 
emergencies or unforeseeable circumstances. Im aware that shed even put some money 
away for emergency contingencies. Even if she hadnt put contingency money aside, I still 
dont think shed invested too much money.  
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs B was provided with the policy documentation including the 
Illustration and the KFD so was broadly aware of the risks (and the charges) involved. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mrs B was given any guarantees about the level of 
return. And just because she didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the 
recommendation was unsuitable. In any event, the performance of the investment isnt 
something that our service is able to look at. Im mindful of the points Mr B makes about the reviews, I understand that the business 
attempted to contact Mrs B after the first five-year period, but it didnt receive a response. In 
the circumstances, I cant blame the business for not taking a more active role reviewing her 
investment because I dont think it was obliged to. 
Im mindful of the point Mr B makes about Mrs Bs age, but theres nothing stopping a 79/80-
year-old from investing. In other words, its not wrong for a 79/80-year-old to invest. I note 
Mrs B was prepared to invest  for five years or more  for capital growth. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs B was incapable of making decisions for herself, even 
though she had Mrs H present at the second meeting. Im satisfied that Mrs H couldve, and 
no doubt wouldve, intervened if there was an issue. Im mindful that Mrs B specifically 
wanted to invest for capital growth, and wasnt concerned about putting money aside for 
care, which she didnt envisage needing in the next five years. 
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigators latest view. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But 
on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give them what they want.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H 
and the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman