DRN-3861944
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claim in relation to a timeshare membership he 
purchased in 2007.
What happened
In January 2007 Mr C bought a club membership and three apartment timeshares from a 
timeshare supplier I will call R. This cost £24,995 and Mr C took out a loan with BPF for the 
full amount. This was repaid in May 2008.
Mr C is represented by a legal company, but for the purposes of this decision I will refer to 
actions taken by it as having been taken by him.
In October 2019, Mr C contacted BPF to make a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) because he believed the 
timeshare was mis-sold to him and BPF provided the funds for him to buy it.
In summary, Mr C said the timeshare agreement was misrepresented to him for a number of 
reasons. In particular, he said that he had been told that the apartments could be rented out 
to cover the cost of club membership.
He explained that he was struggling to meet the loan repayments and the three apartments 
were sold within six months for £5,700. He says he has struggled to pay the maintenance 
fees. He says he didnt realise he was buying a floating weeks timeshare and the rate of 
interest charged by BPF was extortionate.
Mr C also said that the timeshare agreement was Null and Void under the relevant law and 
regulations, as the membership did not conform to the description of a timeshare. Further, 
he said the relationship between him and BPF was unfair under section 140A of the CCA as 
a result of dubious, unfair and misleading sales practices by R, including pressuring Mr C 
into buying the timeshare.
BPF rejected the claim as being out of time. Mr C made a complaint and brought it to our 
service via him representative. One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and 
concluded that he had raised his claims under the CCA out of time under the LA, so she 
thought BPF was entitled to rely on the LA to turn down the claims. And she didnt think 
there was any persuasive evidence to show the lending in question was unaffordable for 
him. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
In response, Mr C summarised the different types of timeshares and the relevant law, 
regulations and guidance, and made the following points:
The agreement breached the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (Timeshare Regulations) because it didnt provide an 
accurate and detailed description of the property and its location (there were no 
details of the unit size or unit number)  and it didnt specify the exact period within 
which the right which is the subject of the contract may be exercised. So, the 
required standard information was not disclosed.
Under Regulation 15 of the Timeshare Regulations, the contract is unenforceable 
against the consumer because it isnt compliant with the regulations. As a result, Mr 
Cs loan agreement is also unenforceable.
BPF owed Mr C a duty of care to ensure that R, as its agent, didnt breach the 
Timeshare Regulations. This breach in their duty of care to Mr C means he has a 
cause in negligence against R and BPF.
Section 14A of the LA provides an extended time limit for negligence actions where 
facts relevant to the cause of action are not known at the date of accrual. This 
section permits a claim in negligence to be brought within six years from the accrual 
of the cause of action or, if later, three years from the earliest date on which the 
claimant had the knowledge required for bringing an action for damages.
Mr C only discovered that BPF breached its duty of care and the contract when he engaged 
his representative in February 2019, so his claim isnt time-barred.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised.
Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mr C says that R misrepresented a number of points in relation to the timeshare agreement 
he purchased. So, he argued BPF is jointly liable for these misrepresentations under section 
75 of the CCA. But if BPF could show the section 75 claim was brought outside of the time 
limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the 
claim. I should make it clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right Mr C may have to 
bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision 
Im considering if BPF acted fairly and reasonably in seeking to turn down Mr Cs claims on 
this basis.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1980 (MA). It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 
(Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded on tort for 
the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (section 2 of the LA).
Here, Mr C brought a like claim against BPF under section 75 of the CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
Therefore, the limitation period for the section 75 claim expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Cs case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against BPF. I think that was the 
date he entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in January 2007. It was at that 
time that he entered into an agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of R He 
claims that he wouldnt have entered into the timeshare agreement if those 
misrepresentations hadnt been made. And it was on that day that he suffered a loss, as he 
took out the loan agreement with BPF.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in January 2007, so Mr C had six 
years from that date to bring a claim. But he didnt to contact BPF about his claim until 
October 2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think BPF acted 
fairly in seeking to turn down Mr Cs misrepresentation claim on this basis.
Was the claim under section 140A of the CCA made in time?
Mr C said that the relationship between him and BPF was unfair under section 140A of the 
CCA for a number of reasons. Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 
140B in connection with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the 
lender and the creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair.
Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and 
I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. I gather Mr Cs loan agreement was closed in May 
2008.
As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr C 
would have to bring an action within six years from the date of closure. So, he had until May 
2014 to make his claim. As he made his claim after that point, I think he brought his claim 
too late. This means I also dont think BPF acted unfairly in seeking to decline a claim under 
section 140A on this basis. So, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
Is Mr Cs timeshare agreement null and void?
Mr C has argued that the timeshare agreement is null and void. In summary he said:
The timeshare agreement doesnt comply with the description of a timeshare or the 
standard information requirements in the Timeshare Regulations 2010.
The Spanish Supreme Court decided that timeshare agreements like Mr Cs are null 
and void, and its likely the UK courts would reach the same conclusion.
If the timeshare agreement is null and void, the related loan agreement between Mr C and BPF is also null and void. Ive considered these arguments, along with the EU Directives, 
Spanish laws and Spanish legal judgment referred to, but I am not persuaded that Mr Cs 
timeshare agreement and/or loan agreement is null and void. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs purchase agreement makes clear that it is governed by English Law - not Spanish 
law. So, I dont think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question of whether 
Mr Cs timeshare agreement is voidable under English law. And I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude it should be voidable, given UK Parliament recently published 
a briefing paper in the House of Commons Library titled: Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, in which it said that a floating week or points based timeshare (like 
Mr Cs) were basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of 
itself.
Further, I am satisfied these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare 
contract contained within the Timeshare Regulations 2010. In line with the definition set out 
in Regulation 7, Mr C acquired the right to use overnight accommodation for more than one 
period of occupation, and the contract had a duration of more than one year  and 
accommodation can be from within a pool of accommodation. So, I am also satisfied that 
these types of timeshares have never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at 
the time of Mr Cs sale or after.
Mr C argued that the timeshare contract doesnt comply with the 1992 regulations because it 
didnt provide an accurate and detailed description of the immovable property and its 
location.
So, the wording Mr C has relied on in fact relates to contracts concerning a specific 
immovable property, rather than a number of properties (multi-resorts)  which only requires 
an appropriate description of the properties. In any event he acquired three specified and 
identified apartments.
As regards the Exact period within which the right which is the subject of the contract may 
be exercised and, if necessary, its duration, which is required by Part 1 of Schedule 1 of the 
2010 Timeshare Regulations; Mr C also argues that this wasnt provided because they didnt 
specify a period or season. But Im not persuaded by this as it appears sufficient information 
about the times and duration of the agreement were set out in the documentation given to Mr 
C.
Neither does the 1992 Act say that timeshare agreements are voidable if the required 
information is not included in the contract, or if money was taken before the end of the 
withdrawal period, in any event.
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the timeshare agreement or 
the related loan agreement is voidable for the reasons Ive explained.
Conclusion
Overall, while I think BPF ought to have responded to Mr Cs claims under the CCA directly, 
I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claims were brought too 
late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr C may have 
against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the 
information available, any claim that Mr C might have against BPF under the CCA has most 
likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into 
account in these circumstances. So, I think BPF acted reasonably in seeking to decline Mr 
Cs claims under the CCA. This means I wont be asking it to do anything further in response 
to Mr Cs claims.Mr C didnt agree and said:
The supplier, R, wasnt regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) for credit 
broking when the loan was arranged.
There is a claim to be made under s 75 CCA 1974 given that R went into liquidation 
in 2020 and Mr Cs agreement was for 43 years and so he has lost out.
The purchase was of a floating weeks timeshare which was regulated by the 1992 
Timeshare Act. Due to the non-disclosure the withdrawal period was extended to 
three months and 10 days and as the bank paid the money before that it was 
negligent.
That negligence means s14A of the LA extends the time allowed to make a claim to 
three years from the sate of knowledge which is when the PR was engaged.
The bank acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint which was initially made to BPF was a very narrow one and it did not include 
reference to the OFT regulation or to a s 75 claim due to the liquidation of the supplier. We 
cannot generally investigate a complaint unless the financial business has had an 
opportunity to consider it first. For that reason, I am unable to comment on these two issues 
in this decision. It is open to Mr C to pursue this matter with BPF of he so chooses.
Should section 14A of the LA apply to Mr Cs claims?
Mr C has said that section 14A of the LA is applicable and this would extend time to when he 
became aware of the breaches of the law by R. But I still disagree. Ill explain why. Section 
14A provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to cause of 
action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of that section). It provides for a 
second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what happened, 
when Mr C purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think there was an obligation 
to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed 
choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose in the 
way Mr C has argued, or that advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to which 
section 14A could apply. 
It has been suggested that R breached the law while acting as an agent for BPF, so it was 
responsible for Rs actions. It has been mooted that BPF was negligent because it had a 
duty of care to ensure all laws were being complied with when R arranged the timeshare 
contract, as a linked agreement. 
As I explain below when considering whether R complied with the relevant sections of the 
Timeshare Act 1992, (not the 2010 Act as Mr C has pointed out) I dont think this creates a 
duty of care in the way Mr C says, and I dont think BPF Money acted negligently. So, I still 
dont think section 14A applies in this case. And I dont think there are any other reasons or 
provisions in the LA that mean time should be extended in these circumstances. 
Is Mr Cs timeshare agreement null and void?In my provisional findings, I explained that Id considered Mr Cs arguments, along with the 
EU Directives, Spanish laws and Spanish legal judgment he referred to, but I wasnt 
persuaded that this meant the timeshare agreement and/or loan agreement were null and 
void. And Im still not persuaded by the arguments Mr C has made.
As per my provisional decision, Mr Cs purchase agreement makes clear that his agreement 
is governed by English Law - not Spanish law. So, I dont think the Spanish judgment Mr C 
referred to can be applied directly to the question of whether his timeshare agreement is 
voidable under English law. And I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude it 
should be voidable, given UK Parliament recently published a briefing paper in the House of 
Commons Library titled: Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners, in which it 
said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic timeshare models that were 
not described as being a problem in and of themselves. 
Having considered the Timeshare Act 1992, the 1994 Directive and the relevant regulations, 
I still do not think the law makes the timeshare agreement voidable as suggested either. Ill 
explain why.
Mr C argues that R failed to provide the required information under the Timeshare Act 1992, 
as amended by the 1994 EU Directive (94/47/EC). Section 1A Obligations to provide 
information of the Timeshares Act 1992 says: 
(1) A person who proposes in the course of a business to enter into a timeshare agreement 
to which this Act applies as offeror (an operator) must provide any person who requests 
information on the proposed accommodation with a document complying with subsection (2) 
below. 
(2) The document shall provide  (a) a general description of the proposed accommodation, 
(b) information (which may be brief) on the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) to (g) and (i) 
of Schedule 1 to this Act [], and (c) information on how further information may be 
obtained.
Sub-section (7) goes on to say: In this section the proposed accommodation means  (a) 
The accommodation which is the subject of the proposed agreement, or (b) The 
accommodation in the pool of accommodation which is the subject of the proposed 
agreement, as the case may be. 
Section 1C Obligatory terms of timeshare agreement says: (1) A person must not in the 
course of a business enter into a timeshare agreement to which this Act applies as offeror 
unless the agreement includes, as terms set out in it, the information referred to in Schedule 
1 to this Act. 
Schedule 1 sets out a Minimum list of items to be included in a timeshare agreement to 
which section 1C applies. This list includes the following, which Mr C argues were not 
specified in the timeshare agreement:
(c) When the timeshare accommodation has been determined, an accurate description of 
that accommodation and its location. 
(h) The exact period within which the right which is the subject of the agreement may be 
exercised and, if necessary, its duration; 
Firstly, based on the extracts above and my wider reading of the Act, the 1992 Act makes 
provision for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it 
was drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing in the 1992 Act makes me think selling those types of timeshares was prohibited. So, I dont think all timeshare 
agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply with the 1992 Act in 
the way Mr C argues. I think setting out the resorts Mr C could use (in other words, the pool 
of accommodation) was sufficient for the purposes of the regulations. And Mr C hasnt 
argued that he didnt know which properties he could use, or that the relevant properties 
werent disclosed to him. So, I am not persuaded R failed to comply with the Timeshare Act 
1992 requirements on this point. 
This means I also dont think the longer withdrawal period applies, or that R or BPF 
breached the Timeshare Act 1992 by taking advance payments within the withdrawal period. 
In any event, there is nothing in the Timeshare Act 1992 that means the timeshare 
agreement would be unenforceable, even if the minimum standard information requirements 
or other requirements under the Timeshare Act were not complied with. Given I still do not 
agree that R breached the Timeshare Act 1992 in the way Mr C argued, I also still dont think 
he had a claim for negligence against either R or BPF on this basis. It follows that I also still 
disagree that section 14A of the LA should apply to extend the applicable time limits for Mr 
Cs claims under the CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman