DRN-2618766
The complaint
Miss M complains about Society of Lloyds (SOL) handling of a claim she made on a home
insurance policy.
What happened
A representative brings the complaint on behalf of Miss M. References I make to Miss M and
her actions include those of her representative. Similarly, where I refer to SOL, this includes
their representatives, contractors and agents.
Miss M has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by SOL. When the property was
damaged by a flood in June 2019, she made a claim. The handling of this claim up to
August 2019 has been the subject of a previous complaint by our service.
For the purpose of this complaint, Im considering SOLs handling of the claim between
August and October 2019. Miss M says that theres been a lack of contact from the loss
adjuster appointed by SOL to deal with the claim, and that settlement of the claim was
unnecessarily delayed.
SOL rejected her complaint. It said it thought the complaint was being progressed
reasonably and that enquiries which had been carried out were necessary, even if this did
prolong the length of time taken to resolve the claim.
Miss M didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt
think that there were any unavoidable delays to the claim in the period we were considering.
She observed that a neighbouring property, which had also been flooded, hadnt yet been
dried which meant that any repair works to Miss Ms property couldnt commence.
Miss M didnt accept this. She said that the neighbouring property hadnt been mentioned
until after she made the complaint, and that the reason for delays was due to the poor
handling of the claim by the loss adjuster. Shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
At the start of the period Im looking at, SOL was in a position to settle Miss Ms claim. Shed
said she preferred a cash settlement in order to employ her own contractors to carry out the
work. SOL said it calculated its liability as being around £20,000.
Miss M provided a quote from her own contractors which said that the necessary repairs
would cost in excess of £39,000. As this was significantly higher than the amount it had
calculated, a surveyor was appointed in order to review the information provided by Miss M.
She made this complaint three weeks later, at which time the surveyor hadnt provided a
report outlining their findings. The surveyors report was sent to SOL around a week after
this, and following receipt SOL agreed to make a payment for the amount Miss Ms
contractor had estimated in settlement of the claim.
It isnt disputed that in this period, the surveyor had attended Miss Ms property in order to
assist with their assessment. Weve asked SOL for details of the contact between its agents
and the surveyor in the period after the surveyor was appointed to find out what was
happening with the surveyors enquiries. The information Ive seen in response to this
request shows contact between SOLs loss adjuster and underwriters regarding payments,
but I cant see any contact between the loss adjuster and the surveyor to ask what enquiries
they were undertaking, or how long this would take.
The information available to me shows that Miss M was in regular contact with the loss
adjuster to ask what was happening with the settlement. This was because her preferred
contractors required payment in order to arrange a start date for the repairs. I cant see that
there were meaningful updates from the loss adjuster, or that the loss adjuster was in
contact with the surveyor to expedite the necessary enquiries. I havent seen any
explanation for why a three week period elapsed before any update was secured from the
surveyor about when a report would be provided.
I also cant see that the timescales for these enquiries were communicated to Miss M in
order to manage her expectations. The communication issues also relate to updates and
payments for alternative accommodation for Miss M and her family. I can see that there were
occasions during this period when Miss M was in contact with the loss adjuster about
payments and arrangements for the accommodation, and also to enquire about the progress
with regards the surveyor, but as Ive said, she wasnt receiving a meaningful response.
Its been suggested that any delay in this period had a limited impact on the progress of the
claim because of the neighbouring property. It seems that around this time, Miss M made
SOL aware that there was an issue with the drying at the neighbouring property. I dont
dispute that this could have had an impact on the ability of contractors to start repairs. But
its important to consider the context here.
Miss M had requested a cash settlement so that her own contractors could carry out the
repairs, and payment needed to be made to her so that she could discuss a start date with
the contractor to confirm a start date. This was communicated to SOL. So, irrespective of
the need for further matters at the neighbouring property to be attended to, it seems to me
that a delay in settlement would potentially impact on Miss Ms preferred contractors being
able to start work.
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and effectively. I think that the issues around
communication to Miss M and establishing what the surveyor was doing suggest that there
were times here when that wasnt the case.
Im also persuaded that these issues have had an impact on Miss M. It would have caused
additional stress at a time when her property had been significantly damaged and she was
unsure how much SOL would be paying to settle the claim.
Im mindful that the length of time that these issues, in the context of the claim, was relatively
short, and Miss M was aware that the surveyor was carrying out enquiries. So while these
issues, and the continued need to contact the loss adjuster did cause inconvenience to Miss
M, Im not persuaded it was particularly significant when compared to the inconvenience
which naturally arose from the claim, and for which SOL isnt liable.
For these reasons, I do think that SOL should pay compensation to Miss M to recognise the
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor handling of parts of the claim. I think that in
the circumstances, an amount of £250 is fair. SOL should pay this amount of compensationto Miss M.
The response to my provisional decision
Miss M didnt respond to the provisional decision. SOL responded but raised no additional 
points or provided further evidence in relation to the points raised or provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although no further information has been put forward by either party in response to the 
provisional decision, I have reviewed the evidence which Id relied on when making that 
decision. I remain satisfied that the complaint should be upheld and that the amount of 
compensation Id suggested is appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. To put things right, Society of Lloyds must pay 
Miss M £250 in compensation.  SOL must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman