DRN-3414624
The complaint
Mrs P complained about how her claim was unfairly settled under her home insurance policy 
with AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA). Mrs P was represented at times by a family member 
during the complaint, but for ease and simplicity, I will only refer to Mrs P.
What happened
Mrs P noticed a leak coming from her bathroom on the first floor of her property and she 
approached her home emergency insurer for support. There were some issues getting the 
leak resolved, which meant the damage worsened and Mrs Ps kitchen collapsed as a result 
which was located directly below the bathroom. Mrs P felt vulnerable at this time due to her 
own personal circumstances.
Mrs P made a claim to AXA for the damage caused by the escape of water. AXA appointed 
a loss adjuster to assess the damage and validate the claim. Initially, the loss adjuster said 
AXA would contribute £771 towards the damage of the kitchen ceiling which it said was 
caused by a leak to the toilet cistern. However, it said the rest of the damage wouldnt be 
covered as it was caused by the condition of the sealant around the shower.
Mrs P challenged the loss adjusters opinion. AXA reviewed the evidence and decided to 
cover all the damage. Mrs P said she had chosen some higher end goods and was quoted 
£9,425 to have the repairs competed. However, AXA said it would be willing to cover £3,850 
of costs before the excess was applied. AXA said, we can only pay for items covered under 
the claim and cannot cover the costs towards some replacements.  
Mrs P said AXAs offer wouldnt even cover the labour, even if she only replaced the 
necessary items in the bathroom [rather than upgrading some items to higher end goods]. 
Mrs P feels she has been financially impacted, and she has found the situation stressful due 
to her personal circumstances at the time.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt see any evidence that 
persuaded her that AXAs appointed expert hadnt been fair in deciding which work was 
necessary following the leak. Our investigator thought AXA had settled the claim in line with 
its terms and conditions. Mrs P disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 3 March 2022. I said:
Buildings insurance policies are generally policies of indemnity. That means AXA should 
aim to put Mrs P back in the position she was in just before the loss or damage happened. 
Taken literally, that means putting Mrs P back in the exact same position. 
AXA should try to do that. But sometimes its simply not possible. And for some 
policyholders it doesnt need to be exactly the same  a reasonable settlement for them is 
one that puts them into a broadly similar position to the one they were in.
Ive started by reviewing what AXAs approach is to settling claims, the policy states we may 
repair, reinstate or replace the damaged property. If we cannot replace or repair the property 
we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including vouchers and/or 
store cards). Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we 
agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount 
we would have paid the preferred supplier.
Mrs P was unhappy that AXA didnt provide her with the option for AXA to arrange and carry 
out the works for her. Given her vulnerable circumstances at the time, Mrs P said if this offer 
was made to her she wouldve found it helpful. Ive considered this. I can see from the 
spreadsheet Mrs P provided, that the scope of works that Mrs P wanted was wider than to 
simply repair the damage from the leak. Its common in the insurance industry, where part of 
the works is for repairing / reinstating the damage and part of the works falls outside of the 
policy that the insurer offers a cash settlement. I know Mrs P was in a vulnerable situation, 
but I dont think its reasonable for her to expect AXA to take on work that the policy didnt 
cover. As this isnt its responsibility. It also doesnt make sense in practical terms for AXA 
doing the specific scope covered by the policy and asking Mrs P to get another contractor to 
do the other works. Therefore, I do think AXA has been fair in offering a cash settlement.
However, I would expect the cash settlement offered by AXA to be fair and to indemnify Mrs 
P from her loss. Mrs P had a quote for all the works she wanted, which included the areas of 
damage and some other items which she recognised as betterment (i.e. improvements that 
she wouldnt be expected to be covered by the policy).
Ive considered what AXA said about its cash settlement. AXA said we reviewed the 
damaged areas and our inhouse buildings team put together a schedule of works, to confirm 
what areas are covered. I understand this was emailed to you on 22 July. The cost of this 
came to £3,850.00. With your £350 excess deducted, a payment was raised for £3,500.00. 
Whilst I appreciate our settlement cost is lower than your quote, we can only pay for items 
covered under the claim and cannot cover the costs towards some replacements. The email 
sent on 22 July clearly provides a breakdown of how we have arrived at the settlement 
figure.
I can see AXA has shown against Mrs Ps quote which areas it is willing to cover with the 
settlement and which areas it isnt. I reviewed the items that Mrs P has disagreed with. I 
didnt think AXA was fair in its approach to some of these items, so I asked AXA to re-
consider its offer in relation to these points. AXA did review its offer and decided to increase 
its offer to £4,566.19 (before the policy excess). However, Mrs P didnt accept AXAs revised 
offer.
AXA said materials wise, [the policyholder] is quoting for a new bathroom. The WC is not 
covered as [this] was the leaking item. Also, the shower pack - showers are easily removed 
and refitted. I have contributed to the enclosure, as there is always chance that can be 
damaged. But the customers estimate again was inflated for what it is. Regarding the labour, 
I have uplifted some of these to cover fully. The biggest difference being installing the 
plasterboard, they have £600, this should not take more than half a day to board as we have 
covered the strip outs elsewhere. They have changed from wall panels to tiling, materials 
wise will be similar, but tiling is a lot more labour intense. So, I havent fully covered this cost. 
The total comes to £4,566.19. I dont feel it justifiable to uplift works any further. 
I have considered the revised offer from AXA and I think its fair. However, as this is an 
increase from the investigators decision, I will be making a provisional decision where I 
intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I think AXAs revised offer is fair.I think AXA has been reasonable in not allowing any costs for the WC as these wouldnt be 
covered by the policy. The policy only covers Mrs P for the damage caused by the leak, and 
not for fixing or replacing the products that caused the leak. I havent seen any evidence to 
show the old shower had been damaged by the leak, so I think AXA has been reasonable in 
concluding the old shower couldve been easily removed and re-fitted. I appreciate Mrs P 
may have wanted a new shower to complement the rest of her new bathroom, but the policy 
only provides cover for replacing damaged items. So, I dont think AXA has been unfair by 
not allowing these costs. I think AXA has tried to be fair by allowing the costs for a new 
shower enclosure, when it wasnt clear the old one was damaged. I think AXAs revised offer 
has taken onboard the comments I made to it, and now reflects a fair offer for the labour 
element required to repair the damage in the bathroom and kitchen.
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to require AXA to settle the claim in line 
with its revised offer (£4,566.19 before excess). I dont think AXAs offer has delayed Mrs P 
getting her bathroom completed. However, I do think she will have suffered a small amount 
of distress, as the original offer from AXA left her with a financial shortfall. Therefore, I intend 
to award £100 compensation for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither AXA nor Mrs P responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require AXA Insurance UK plc to pay Mrs P:
£4,566.19 less the policy excess (in line with its revised offer). If AXA, has already 
paid part of this settlement, then it should only pay the remaining balance.
£100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience the original offer caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman