DRN-2282624
The complaint
Miss Ss complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by MotoNovo Finance Limited 
(MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss S acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
 
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss S responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. She would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
Ive considered all the photographs of the damage that the inspector identified on the 
car. There are only four areas of damage evidenced but I agree that each area 
exhibits scratches in excess of the 25mm BVRLA guidance. 
So, the damage charges MotoNovo have set out for refurbishment to the near side 
and off side rear doors; tailgate and rear bumper are all sufficiently evidenced.
Its clear that despite the delay in inspecting the car, it was in Miss Ss possession for 
a considerably longer time than it was at the auction house, or being transported, 
before inspection. So, Id usually think it was more likely the damage had occurred 
whilst in Miss Ss care. However, here I think there are reasons to question that. The 
scratches are obvious and unusually long. I think Miss S may well have noticed them 
before returning the car and I would agree with the investigator that theyre not the 
sort of scratches you would usually expect due to normal wear and tear. Taking all 
the evidence into account I think the fairest resolution would be to split the difference 
here and ask MotoNovo to waive 50% of this charge if Miss S pays the rest.
MotoNovo have accepted that as there is no photographic evidence of the other eight 
areas of damage they claimed for, those charges should be waived, and I agree. 
There is no evidence to support these charges.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should waive the charges theyve made for the damage to the bonnet, front 
bumper, near side and front and rear wheels, wing, both front doors and the door mirror 
assembly. 
They should reduce the charges theyve made for refurbishment to the rear doors; tailgate 
and rear bumper by 50%.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to remove charges for the bonnet, front bumper, near side and front and rear wheels, 
wing, both front doors and the door mirror assembly. They should also reduce the charges 
theyve made for refurbishment of the rear doors; tailgate and rear bumper by 50%.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman