DRN-1100741
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt deposit the right 
amount of money into her account when she went into the branch to pay some cash in.
Mr T brings the complaint on behalf of his wife.
What happened
Mrs T has a current account with NatWest and, in July 2019, she went into a branch to pay 
in some cash. This was money Mr T had received from work hed completed, and he told her 
it was £1,800. They recall the cash was in £50 and £20 notes - £1,400 in £20 notes and 
£400 in £50 notes. 
However, when the cash was checked by the cashier in their teller cash recycler (TCR), they 
told Mrs T there was £1,480 rather than £1,800 - £1,080 in £20 notes and £400 in £50 notes. 
The cash was handed back to Mrs T to count, and she confirmed that it was £1,480 and this 
was what was deposited into her account. 
Mrs T then contacted NatWest about the matter, as Mr T was certain that there had been 
£1,800 in cash. But the branch manager said that the TCR had balanced correctly, and 
theyd viewed the CCTV footage and this didnt show any cash being dropped by either 
Mrs T or the cashier. Mrs T asked to view the CCTV footage, but the branch manager said 
this could only be looked at by the police.
Mr and Mrs T complained but NatWest said it didnt think it had made an error. It said the 
TCR had recorded £1,080 in £20 notes and £400 in £10 notes. It said Mr and Mrs T wouldnt 
be able to view the CCTV footage because of data protection requirements as other 
customers could be seen on it. 
Mr and Mrs T were concerned that there could be a fault with the TCR, as they hadnt 
deposited any £10 notes, as NatWest had said. They felt this could be the cause of their 
missing money.
One of our investigators looked at the details of the complaint. He felt that NatWest had 
conducted a thorough investigation into what had happened - involving the branch and area 
managers; and reviewing the CCTV footage and TCR records; as well as the till balancing 
information for that day. However, the investigator said that NatWest had wrongly said that 
the cash contained £10 notes rather than £50 notes in its responses to their complaint. So 
he thought NatWest should pay Mrs T £50 for the upset this will have caused. 
NatWest said that it would accept the investigators findings. But Mr and Mrs T asked for 
their complaint to be reviewed. They would like the police to look at the CCTV footage as 
they think this would show what happened that day. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts strength of feeling about this matter as they recall the 
cash being £320 more than what was deposited into Mrs Ts account. Its clear that this is 
money Mr T will have worked hard for. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs T have told us and Ive considered the 
information from the branch; including the details from the TCR which both counts the notes 
entered into it, and records the denominations.
NatWests submissions include evidence from the branch manager who reviewed the CCTV 
footage from the time Mrs T visited the branch, and said this doesnt show that any cash was 
dropped either by Mrs T or the cashier. As I understand it, the cashier typed the figure of 
£1,800 into the TCR, as this is what Mrs T had said was there, but it totalled the notes to 
be £1,480 instead. Mrs T then asked for these to be passed back to her to count herself. 
Ive looked at the journal roll for the TCR and this shows that it counted £1,080 in £20 notes 
and £400 in £50 notes. These were then removed, or rolled back  I presume this was 
when they were passed back to Mrs T to count  and then recounted by the TCR, to give the 
same figure. NatWest has told us that the branch didnt have a discrepancy of £320 for that 
day. 
Mr T has provided his invoices for the work hed completed to receive this amount of cash. 
And I note that the one of the invoices is for £1,080 which exactly matches the total of the 
£20 notes. But I havent been provided with anything to show exactly how Mr T was paid for 
the work in the invoices, or what denominations he received. And in the circumstances, I can 
understand why he may not have kept a record or note of this, particularly if he didn't expect 
there to be any problem. But, even if there was some evidence to show how Mr T was paid 
for this work, I dont think this would or could confirm what was definitely included in the cash 
bundle Mrs T passed to the cashier that day.
So, while I know that Mr and Mrs T would like more of an explanation about what happened 
with their money, it isnt possible for me to say with any certainty why there is a discrepancy 
between the amount Mrs T believed was in the bundle of cash she handed to the cashier, 
with the amount that the cashier counted there to be.
From the available information, I dont think NatWest were at fault with the actions and 
investigations it has taken to look into the matter.
It's because of this that I cant fairly conclude that NatWest should be required to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs T with the £320 they believe to be missing, when there isnt sufficient information 
to show that this loss was caused by NatWest. 
I do acknowledge the upset this matter will have caused for Mr and Mrs T, particularly as 
some information NatWest included in its responses to their complaint wasnt right about the 
denominations that made up the cash amount. I say this because the TCR records show 
they paid in £20 and £50 notes rather than £20 and £10 notes as NatWest had said. So I 
think this was a mistake in the writing of these letters, rather than a fault with the TCR itself. 
But this is likely to have added to their frustration and confusion about what happened to 
their money, and may have caused them to doubt NatWests investigation.  
Putting things rightTaking everything into account, I agree with the investigator that NatWest should pay Mrs T 
£50 to recognise the upset caused through the errors in its letters about the denominations 
they paid in.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay Mrs T £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman