DRN-2651031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) failed to carry 
out an appropriate survey when they were purchasing their property.
What happened
The complaint is well known to both parties and Ive summarised the key points below.
BOS provided the mortgage for Mr and Mrs Ts property, and during the application 
process a level one valuation was carried out.
Since owning the house, Mr and Mrs T have encountered several issues regarding 
the construction of the boundary fence, position of manhole covers and airbricks. 
Theyve also found that they have two car park spaces, instead of one. To put these 
issues right, Mr and Mrs T have had to fund the costs themselves and they made a 
complaint to BOS. They said that BOS had failed to carry out a proper survey and 
hadnt even visited the property, and they also disputed the amount they paid for the 
survey.
BOS responded to the complaint and said that Mr and Mrs T had paid for a level one 
valuation which cost £200. This is a basic property valuation and isnt an in-depth 
survey of the property. BOS found no errors on the valuation report or the cost that 
was charged. It did compensate Mr and Mrs T £50 for the time taken to respond to 
the complaint.
Mr and Mrs T asked our service to consider the complaint. Our investigator reviewed 
the information available to her and didnt recommend that BOS had to do anything 
differently. She explained that Mr and Mrs T had paid for a valuation of the property, 
not a survey, and the findings were in line with what shed expect a valuation to 
consider. Our investigator also confirmed that Mr and Mrs T had paid £200 for the 
survey which was the correct price.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our investigators findings. They said that BOS had a 
duty of care to them as borrowers to report accurate information about the property. 
And that BOS survey was incorrect, for example showing there to be one parking 
space when there are two at the property. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
What was carried out by BOS appointed surveyor was a lending valuation, not a 
survey. Even though this has been told to Mr and Mrs T on several occasions, its an 
important point to address as it forms the basis of what results are produced.
As it was a lending valuation that was carried out, this was for the purpose of the 
lender, in this case BOS, to assist it in deciding whether it could provide a mortgage 
to Mr and Mrs T to buy the property, and on what terms. Its not a survey, and its role 
is not to highlight any defects or issues that the property mayve posed to Mr and Mrs 
T.
Because its a basic valuation, this can be carried out without visiting the property, 
and its whats known as a desktop valuation. 
BOS can choose who they appoint to carry out the valuation, and I havent seen that 
theres been a failing to appoint an appropriate business. As this complaint isnt 
concerning the actions of the surveyor directly, I can only comment on BOS 
involvement.
I havent seen that Mr and Mrs T have overpaid for this valuation within their 
mortgage application, and our investigator has explained the £330 fee was a cost 
between BOS and the surveyors.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that BOS carried out a mortgage valuation, not a 
survey of the property. And based on this, it extended an offer to provide a mortgage 
to Mr and Mrs T. If Mr and Mrs T, or their broker, had any concerns that an actual 
survey was needed, they couldve chosen the next level or instructed their own 
surveyor. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs T have concerns over BOS duty of care to them during 
their mortgage application process. Whilst Ive carefully considered their comments, 
a valuation is for the lender to decide whether it will lend on the property. Its purpose 
is not to identify any defects that could be revealed via an actual survey of the 
property. As the valuation was the only option chosen by Mr and Mrs T, Im satisfied 
that BOS has fulfilled its role in providing this to them.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman