The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on 
her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2017, Mrs M added electrical cover to her home emergency insurance policy. 
She told British Gas about a fault with her electrics. British Gas sent out an engineer to look 
into the issue. Mrs M said the engineer told her it was probably down to rodent damage 
which wasnt covered by the policy. British Gas notes stated the engineer had disconnected 
cables and told her she needed a rewire.
In December 2018, Mrs M called on British Gas again. She said the engineer again told her 
this was likely to be due to rodent damage and that the floor would need to be taken up to 
repair it. This time the engineer recorded that hed disconnected cables and that Mrs M had 
refused a quote.
Mrs M called British Gas for a third time in May 2019. She said the engineer told her the floor 
would need to come up and nothing could be done until it was taken up. The engineers 
notes say there was a break in the cable and the underfloor needs lifting. Mrs M says she 
was told that her policy didnt cover trace and access costs and that shed need to pay for 
this herself. 
Unhappy with how British Gas was handling her claim, Mrs M complained. She said there 
was no exclusion for rodent damage in her policy. And her policy also covered trace and 
access and making good up to a limit of £1000. She wasnt happy with the work the 
engineers had done. 
British Gas sent out another engineer in June 2019. This engineer found the upstairs 
sockets were linked to the downstairs sockets. He said this wasnt good practice as ring 
mains should be wired separately. And he advised the floors would need to be taken up to 
find out where the mains were linked. He said some of the wiring was around 50 years old 
and needed to be replaced. 
On this basis, British Gas suggested Mrs M should have an Electrical Condition Inspection 
Report. It told her the policy excluded the costs of rewiring her home. And it pointed to a 
policy term excluding claims for faults which existed when the policy started. But it offered to 
refund her the premiums shed paid since the start for the electrical cover.
Mrs M remained unhappy with British Gas position and asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator asked British Gas for some more information. He asked what was the actual 
problem with the socket. It said there was a fault in one of the legs of the circuit, meaning a 
DRN-1823738junction box somewhere on the circuit was causing the main circuit breaker to trip. The 
investigator asked British Gas if there was a reason why this issue couldnt be fixed. British 
Gas didnt respond to this question.
So the investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged some 
of the cables were old, so he understood why a rewire had likely been suggested. He 
accepted the policy didnt cover a rewire, but he pointed out this wasnt what Mrs M was 
asking for. But he didnt think British Gas had shown that the repairs needed to Mrs Ms 
electrics werent covered by the policy. He also thought British Gas should pay Mrs M 
compensation of £150 to recognise the errors itd made.
British Gas didnt respond to the investigators assessment, although it did receive it. Mrs M 
said shed have concerns about getting British Gas to do the repairs. The complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided British Gas 
hasnt treated Mrs M fairly. Ill explain why.
Has British Gas considered the claim fairly?
Its clear Mrs Ms been experiencing faults with her electrics since at least November 2017, 
when it seems the electrical cover was added to the policy. British Gas has pointed to a 
general policy exclusion which says that pre-existing faults arent covered  faults that pre-
date the start of the policy. So Ive thought about whether the claim should be turned down 
on this basis.
I asked British Gas to send me a copy of the call between it and Mrs M when she called to 
add the electrical cover to her existing policy. It seems to me that if she told the call handler 
that she was already experiencing electrical faults at this point; the call handler ought to 
have let her know that these wouldnt be covered. So I wanted to check whether its call 
handler had pointed out the pre-existing fault exclusion. 
British Gas responded to say it no longer had the sales call and sent me a screenshot. This 
doesnt show me what was discussed during the call. So Ive gone on to make my decision 
based on the information I do have.
As Ive explained, I think that British Gas had the opportunity at the outset to tell Mrs M the 
fault wouldnt be covered because it already existed at the time she added electrical cover to 
her policy. Theres no evidence to show me it did so. Instead, its sent four engineers out to 
look into the cause of the problem since 2017 onwards. So Im not sure, in the 
circumstances of this case, that its fair and reasonable for British Gas to now try and 
exclude cover for a pre-existing fault. Thats because I think it couldve simply told Mrs M at 
the start that the fault wouldnt be covered because it already existed when she took out the 
policy.
In any event though, Im not persuaded British Gas has shown its fair for it to rely on this 
exclusion to turn down Mrs Ms claim. Ive looked carefully at the job notes provided by the 
engineers. In 2017, the notes say the engineer had disconnected hidden joints. In 2018, the 
engineer tested disconnected cables, but left because Mrs M didnt want a rewire quote. In 
May 2019, the engineer recorded that there was a break in the cable and the floor needed to 
be lifted to get access. And the fourth engineer said the junction box was underfloor and Mrs M would need to provide access.
Looking at these notes; there doesnt seem to be a consistent cause for the faults Mrs Ms 
experienced. British Gas has since said that theres a fault on one of the legs on the circuit, 
which means a junction box somewhere on the circuit is causing a junction box to trip. This 
again differs to the previous issues recorded. It seems this might be fixable. And the 
investigator gave British Gas the opportunity to explain why this fault wouldnt be covered 
under the policy, but it didnt respond. 
So while the fault might pre-date the start of the policy, Im not satisfied that British Gas has 
shown me it does. Its for an insurer to show an exclusion clause should apply and on 
balance, I dont think British Gas has done so here, despite the many opportunities its had 
to do so over the past two years.
I accept the policy doesnt cover a full rewire. But that isnt what Mrs Ms asking for. She 
simply wants the fault with her electrics fixed. British Gas hasnt given me any reason to 
think this isnt possible. In fact, it clarified that the floor wouldnt need to be lifted to get the 
repairs done. This makes me think a repair can be carried out, without the need for trace and 
access. And that it knows what needs to be done to put the fault right. 
Overall, I think British Gas needs to accept Mrs Ms claim and is liable for ensuring the 
repairs are done. I appreciate Mrs M doesnt want British Gas to do this work for her. I 
considered whether a cash settlement towards the cost of repairs would be more 
appropriate, so the investigator asked British Gas how much it would cost it to carry out a 
one-off repair. It didnt respond.
So in this particular case, Ive decided its appropriate for Mrs M to decide how shed like the 
repairs dealt with. This means she can either opt for British Gas to carry out the necessary 
repairs; or she can get an electrician to provide a quote for the cost of the repair works. 
Shell need to send this estimate to British Gas so it can meet any reasonable costs for the 
repair works. It had the opportunity to tell me how much the repairs would cost it, but it didnt 
do so, despite extended time. So I dont think it would fair for it to try to limit settlement to its 
own costs now. It wont be liable for any upgrade works though.
I appreciate British Gas refunded two years of premiums. But it did so as a gesture of 
goodwill. Theres nothing to suggest it cancelled the policy. Given this, I dont think Mrs M 
needs to repay the premiums in order for her claim to be covered.
The service Mrs M received
I think Mrs M has received poor service from British Gas. It seems she was given conflicting 
information about whether her claims would be covered and why. Shes been told trace and 
access wasnt covered, when in fact her schedule clearly states this is covered up to £1000. 
The issues have been ongoing for over two years. So I think its fair for Mrs M to be paid 
additional compensation on top of the premium refund she received. I agree with the 
investigator that £150 is a fair sum for the trouble and upset shes likely to have suffered. 
Thats because I think the misinformation mustve been frustrating. and shes been left with 
faulty electrics for some time.
Taken together with the refund of premium Mrs Ms received, I direct British Gas to pay Mrs 
M a further £150 for her trouble and upset.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Either carry out the repairs to the fault under Mrs Ms home emergency policy; or meet the 
reasonable costs of getting the repairs done once Mrs M has sent an estimate to it to 
consider, depending on which of these options Mrs Ms chooses.
I also direct British Gas to pay Mrs M £150 for her trouble and upset.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
*If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman