DRN-1688958
 
The complaint
Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.  
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt find the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and I've set out my reasons below.
Mr M says he doesn't remember the phone call where he applied for the credit card 
and PPI. But Capital One has provided records of the details that were taken during 
that call. On balance I think it's likely that the credit card and PPI were sold over the 
phone - although given the amount of time that's passed, I can understand why Mr M 
may no longer remember this. From what we know about Capital One's phone sales 
processes at the time, I think it would've been made clear to Mr M that he didnt have 
to take out the PPI. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
 
 
 But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman