DRN-3178762
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Towards the end of November 2019, Mr and Mrs C booked a weeks holiday abroad, starting 
15 August 2020. They had the benefit of a standard, annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 26 December 2019 to 25 
December 2020.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. A few months later 
the FCO announced exemptions to the FCO advice issued on 17 March 2020 in respect of 
travel to certain countries, known as travel corridors. A travel corridor was put in place 
between the UK and the country Mr and Mrs C had intended to travel to. 
On 13 August 2020, two days before they were due to travel, the FCO changed its guidance 
and advised against all but essential international travel to the country Mr and Mrs C were 
due to travel (based on the current assessment of Covid-19 risks). So, Mr and Mrs C 
cancelled their holiday. The FCO advice remained in place at the time they were due to 
travel.
Mr and Mrs C attempted to recover their pre-paid costs  including via their credit card 
provider. They made a claim on the policy for the pre-paid costs they couldnt recover in 
respect of their trip abroad. 
URV declined to cover the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for 
cancelling a trip for the reasons they did. Cancelling a trip because of the impact of Covid-19 
isnt listed as an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. Unhappy, Mr and 
Mrs C complained to our Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended the complaint be upheld.  
She recommended URV reassess the claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy 
terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr and 
Mrs C to be left in a position where they had no cover for cancelling the trip due to a change 
in FCO advice but to also have no cover if theyd gone ahead and travelled (in the event that 
it was possible for them to do so). 
URV disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case in her view dated 15 
November 2021. To summarise, URV has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It must 
consider claims promptly and fairly and it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. Our 
investigator also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this 
complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page two (under the heading, where am I covered?) it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For 
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Page 1 of the policy sets out the criteria for purchase. It says:
 This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone 
named of the insurance schedule
Is not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure
Page 7 of the policy sets out the circumstances under which URV will pay for certain costs, 
which have been paid and cannot be recovered from anyone else. These are if the 
policyholder had to cancel the trip because any of the following unexpectedly happening 
before they left home:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled.
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Cs trip was cancelled because the FCO advised against all 
but essential travel to the country they were due to travel. Thats not something thats 
covered under the cancellation section of the terms and conditions of the policy; its 
not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law 
and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Had Mr and Mrs C travelled abroad on 15 August 2020 theyd have not followed FCO 
advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and conditions. But, 
under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCO advice also isnt listed as an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions and cross 
reference different sections of the policy  in conjunction with the IPID - in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. So, I dont think this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. Im 
satisfied the combined effect of the policy terms and IPID in this case means it wasnt 
made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that theyd have no 
cover under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice. And nor was it made 
reasonably clear that theres no cover in place should their trip be cancelled because 
of FCO advice changing in between buying the policy and their intended departure 
date, as is what happened here.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs C 
and URV which is unfair in this case. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs C wouldve 
bought the policy had they realised that there was no cover under the policy if the 
FCO guidance changed after theyd bought it. Particularly as there were other travel 
insurance policies available at the time which wouldve covered such a situation.
Ive taken into account that the policy had a cooling off period and so Mr and Mrs C 
couldve cancelled within that period once theyd had a chance to read through the 
terms of the policy if they werent happy with them. However, even if they did read 
the full terms, for the reasons set out above, I dont think it wouldve reasonably been 
clear to them that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed 
after theyd bought it but before their scheduled departure date.
Putting things right
URV should treat Mr and Mrs Cs claim as covered under the cancellation section of the 
policy. And URV should assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy  including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and any applicable 
excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 
2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman