DRN-4497083
The complaint
Miss D complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has turned down a 
claim she made on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Miss D is insured under a private medical insurance policy. The policy provides specified 
benefits for a defined list of procedure codes. In December 2022, she underwent surgery in 
hospital. She made a claim on the policy for benefit.
AIG looked into Miss Ds claim, taking into account the procedure codes it was given by the 
treating hospital. It didnt think the procedure Miss D had undergone was covered by the 
policy. So it turned down her claim.
Miss D was unhappy with AIGs decision. She provided evidence from the treating hospital 
which suggested that Miss Ds procedure code had actually been a different code, which 
AIG did cover.
AIG investigated further with the specific consultant whod carried out Miss Ds surgery and 
obtained confirmation of the actual surgery Miss D had undergone. It concluded that the 
procedure wasnt covered by the policy and so it maintained its decision to turn down Miss 
D's claim. However, it accepted thered been issues with the way it had handled the claim 
and so it offered Miss D £75 compensation.
Remaining unhappy with AIGs position, Miss D asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. She felt the surgery Miss D 
had undergone was closely related to procedures which AIG did cover. And therefore she 
thought it would be fair and reasonable for AIG to accept and pay Miss Ds claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 November 2023, which explained why I didnt think it 
had been unfair for AIG to turn down Miss Ds claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Ds policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think AIG 
treated Miss D fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Miss D and AIG. Both parties accept that the policy terms set out a list of the 
specific procedure codes AIG covers. Page four of the contract terms explains what the 
policy is designed to do and says:
It will pay for most consultations, diagnostic tests and investigations and if required a 
surgical procedure. The codes for the surgical procedures covered are listed in Section K 
Table of surgery. Please note that if a surgical procedure code is not listed in Section K and 
the code you have been given by your surgeon is not an updated code for a surgical 
procedure covered as described in Section K, we will not provide any benefit towards the 
surgery performed.
Section K states:
Please note that if a procedure code is not listed in the tables below and is not an updated 
procedure code for a surgical procedure covered as described in the tables below we will not 
provide any benefit towards the surgery performed unless the surgeon could not have 
predicted before the surgery commenced that the additional procedure would be necessary.
Ive also looked closely at the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which sets 
out an at-a-glance summary of cover. Page one of the IPID includes a section called Are 
there any restrictions on cover? It lists the following restriction:
Only surgery that is shown in the Table of Surgery is covered under the policy.
In my view, the policy documentation makes it sufficiently clear that AIG will only pay claims 
for surgery if the procedure is one AIG has specifically chosen to cover. AIG doesnt 
consider that the surgery Miss D underwent was covered by the policy terms. So Ive next 
considered whether I think that was a fair conclusion for AIG to draw.
Was Miss Ds surgery covered by the policy terms and conditions?
When Miss D initially made the claim, AIG relied on the information given by the treating 
hospital about the procedure shed undergone. The surgery was recorded as: Laparoscopic 
unilateral right salpingo-oophorectomy. I understand this was the removal of Miss Ds right 
fallopian tube and ovary. AIG was provided with a list specific procedure codes  and having 
checked the policy terms, I can see that these werent codes which AIG covered. So I dont 
think it was unfair for AIG to initially turn down the claim.
Following AIGs initial rejection of Miss Ds claim, the treating hospital stated that, in fact, 
Miss Ds surgery was coded differently and provided a code which was covered by the policy 
terms. AIG noted that the doctor whod provided this information hadnt been Miss Ds 
treating surgeon and so it contacted the consultant who had carried out the operation. I dont 
think this was an unfair or inappropriate step for AIG to take. The treating consultant 
responded to clarify that Miss Ds exact type of surgery was:
Laparoscopic right salpingo-oophorectomy + omental biopsy + biopsy of other peritoneal 
cystic nodules in pelvis.
I dont think it was unfair for AIG to place more weight on the evidence of the surgeon whod 
carried out Miss Ds surgery to determine exactly what procedure shed undergone. And this 
surgery matched the original codes AIG had been given  which werent covered by the 
policy terms. So I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to conclude that the procedure 
simply wasnt covered under the terms of the contract.
Section K includes cover for treatment of endometriosis. The policy says: Keyhole surgery is 
used to treat endometriosis, a poorly-understood condition where tissue similar to that 
usually found inside the womb is found elsewhere in the body (usually in the pelvis). 
Endometriotic lesions can be destroyed using a special telescopic instrument called a 
laparoscope, eliminating the need for a large surgical scar.Our investigator thought Miss Ds surgery was similar to procedure codes AIG did cover. 
And she referred to NHS information which indicated that endometriosis could present in the 
form of ovarian cysts. Therefore, she thought it would be fair and reasonable for AIG to 
accept and pay Miss Ds claim. Ive thought about this carefully.
The available medical evidence indicates that Miss Ds surgery was intended to remove an 
adnexal mass, together with her right ovary and fallopian tube. I havent seen any 
persuasive medical evidence which suggests that Miss D had been diagnosed with 
endometriosis or that her ovarian cyst was caused by endometriosis. Neither have I seen 
any medical evidence that indicates Miss Ds surgery was intended to treat endometriosis. 
As such then, I dont think it was unfair for AIG to conclude that Miss Ds treatment didnt fall 
within the scope of the procedures it covered. On that basis, while I sympathise with Miss 
Ds position, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct AIG to accept and 
pay Miss Ds claim outside of the policy terms.
AIG accepts that it didnt handle Miss Ds claim as well as it could have done. And so its 
offered to pay her £75 compensation. In my view, this is a fair and reasonable award to 
recognise the likely impact I think AIGs service errors had on Miss D. And so Im not 
planning to tell AIG to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
AIG didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Miss D disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised her response. She 
maintained that the definition of the surgery shed undergone was the removal of an ovary, 
which she felt fell within AIGs covered procedure codes. She felt that different titles were 
given to surgeries, but it was the definition of those procedures which was key, so a patient 
understands what treatment is to be carried out. She provided me with a copy of her medical 
consent form which listed the title of the surgery and the intended benefits of it  to remove 
an ovarian cyst and give a diagnosis. She stated that other specialists had agreed that her 
operation code was indeed one which AIG covered. She felt that neither I nor AIG were 
gynaecological experts and that AIG hadnt considered the definitions of procedures it did 
cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss D, I still dont think it was unfair for 
AIG to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision, I explained the reasons why I didnt think it had been unfair or 
reasonable for AIG turn down Miss Ds claim. Ive carefully considered her response to my 
provisional findings. But overall, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons. However, I will address what I consider to be the key further points 
Miss D has made.
Its important I make it clear that as Im not a medical expert, I must necessarily make a 
decision based on the available medical evidence. In this case, I have weighed-up the 
totality of the medical evidence provided by the treating hospitals and Miss Ds treating 
specialists to decide whether I think it was fair for AIG to place more weight on the treating 
consultants evidence. As I explained above, Im satisfied that the policy terms make it clear that AIG will only pay 
claims for the specific, listed procedure codes its set out in the contract. 
In this case, AIG was provided with discharge information, completed by Miss Ds treating 
surgeon, which stated that Miss D had undergone laparoscopic right salpingo-oophorectomy 
and omental biopsy and biopsy of other peritoneal cystic nodules in pelvis. I appreciate that 
one of the stated benefits of this procedure was that an ovarian cyst would be removed for 
diagnostic testing. And that there is some cover under the policy for the puncture of an 
ovarian cyst and the biopsy of it. But based on the discharge information AIG was given, I 
dont think it acted unfairly when it concluded that Miss Ds surgery had been for the wider 
removal of her right fallopian tube and ovary, along with the removal of an adnexal mass. As 
such, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it decided that Miss Ds procedure 
wasnt covered by the policy terms.
I accept that following AIGs initial decline of the claim, other specialists whod been involved 
in Miss Ds care stated that in fact, Miss Ds surgery did fall within a covered procedure 
code. But given this information was different to the original information AIG had been given, 
I still think it was fair and reasonable for AIG to contact Miss Ds treating and discharging 
surgeon to clarify exactly what type of surgery Miss D had undergone. Thats because I think 
they were best placed to comment on the procedure and what had happened. And as Ive 
explained, the treating surgeon reiterated that Miss Ds surgery matched the information 
theyd given on the discharge papers.
As such then, I still dont think it was unfair for AIG to find the evidence of the surgeon whod 
carried out Miss Ds surgery to be more persuasive than the evidence of the other 
specialists. And so it follows that I still dont find that AIG acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it maintained its decision to turn down Miss Ds claim.
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Miss Ds position, Im not telling AIG to pay 
Miss Ds claim or to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman