DRN-3597687
The complaint
Mrs H has complained through a representative that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) 
mis-sold her a loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs H had one loan from Everyday and a brief summary of the loan can be found below.  
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(month)monthly 
repayment
1 £6,000 25/06/2016 outstanding 48 £318.40
It isnt clear from the statement of account provided by Everyday whether the loan has been 
repaid. But I can see, that in October 2019 there was some write off, of the interest and 
arrears. For the purpose of this decision, Ive assumed there is still an outstanding balance 
left to repay. 
Everyday issued its final response letter about Mrs Hs complaint on 15 December 2021 and 
it concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved the loan. 
Everyday said it carried out its normal verification checks, which included obtaining a credit 
report, verifying Mrs Hs income through a payslip and it also reviewed her bank statements. 
It also calculated her expenditure using ONS (Office for National Statistics) with a minimum 
of £500 and a maximum of £1,000. Everyday says it regards 35% as the national average. 
Everyday concluded, for this loan that Mrs Hs income was around £1,700 per month with 
estimated outgoings of £803.21. Which left her with around £593 each month after her loan 
commitment was considered. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs Hs representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Mrs Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators and she upheld the loan. She 
considered that Everyday had evidence to suggest that the repayment for this loan along 
with her other outstanding credit commitments represented a significant portion of her 
monthly income. 
In addition, in the adjudicators view even considering the consolidation of some of Mrs Hs 
other debt (as the described purpose of the loan) this wouldnt have improved her overall 
situation. 
Mrs Hs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment. 
Everyday didnt agree with the outcome. In response it said (in summary):
Everyday provided a list of credit commitments Mrs H would consolidate including, a 
payday loan, a credit card and two mail order accounts. 
After these repayments Everyday says Mrs Hs credit commitments wouldve been 
around £435.40  which is only 25% of her monthly income. 
Had this loan not been provided, then it wouldve taken Mrs H around 156 months to 
repay those debts by just repaying the minimum repayment each month. By 
consolidating these loans would be repaid within 48 months. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs H would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Hs ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. 
That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payment she had 
a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
For this loan, Everyday asked Mrs H for her monthly income, which she declared as being 
£1,667 Everyday then verified this through seeing a copy of a payslip, and the payslip from 
May 2016 shows she earned £1,754. Everyday therefore, had an accurate idea of Mrs Hs 
monthly income. But, from the payslip Everyday knew that some of this income was made 
up of overtime which would suggest that Mrs Hs basic salary i.e. without overtime was less 
than what she had been paid. 
Everyday has then shown that Mrs Hs living costs, based on ONS data along with credit 
commitments came to around £803.21. Which wouldve left a sufficient amount of disposable 
income to be able to afford the loan repayments each month  for 48 months. 
So, it may have been reasonable for Everyday to believe that Mrs H wouldve been in a 
position to repay her loan. However, I dont think, given what Ive seen that this loan was 
sustainable for Mrs H. 
Everyday says the loan was for consolidation purposes. Indeed, it has shown that of the 
£6,000 advanced £2,229.06 was actually made out as a cheque to one of the credit card 
providers with the remaining amount £3,770.94, as far as I can see, being paid directly to 
Mrs H. 
Everyday couldve been confident that at least £2,229.06 would go towards to repaying one 
of her credit providers. However, it was aware from the credit checks that Mrs H actually 
owed creditors more than £11,500 through ten different credit providers. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Everyday says that the loan was in effect 
beneficial for Mrs H as it provided a vehicle for her to repay the balance within 48 months  
compared to 156 months it may have taken to repay the debts she was repaying had she 
just made the minimum repayment. 
But it is worth noting that the interest rate this loan attracted was likely to be higher than 
some of the other debts that Mrs H had so I do question whether this loan was beneficial for 
Mrs H as Everyday suggests.   
On top of the above credit card provider Everyday provided a list of creditors that Mrs H was 
due to repay with the funds of the loan which included two mail order accounts and a payday 
loan. 
Based on the information Everyday saw in the credit report Everyday calculated the 
settlement figures for those credit accounts came to around £3,430. So, with the repayment 
for the credit card (which Everyday produced a cheque for), it believed that Mrs H would 
repay four credit accounts totalling £5,659. 
Although, it isnt clear whether the mail order and payday loan were actually repaid with this 
loan because no evidence has been provided. However, and its worth saying, it seems Everyday released a larger portion of the loan 
amount to Mrs H  so it had no way of knowing whether Mrs H would consolidate the debts 
that Everyday expected her to. Everyday couldve as far as Im aware made those payments 
on behalf of Mrs H as it had done for her credit card. 
After repaying the debts that Everyday believed that Mrs H would use the loan funds for, this 
wouldve left, six outstanding credit accounts (not including the loan repayments for 
Everyday) with a balance of £6,562. In addition, Everyday calculated that these outstanding 
credit commitments created a monthly repayment of £117. This, I think is clearly incorrect, 
given some of the credit commitments Everyday has recorded a monthly repayment of £0 
when Everyday knew that there were outstanding balances. This just doesnt seem 
plausible. 
However, given Everyday knew about an outstanding debt of £6,562 would remain, I think a 
more reasonable minimal repayment wouldve been around £328  this assumed that Mrs H 
just paid just 5% of the outstanding balance for each account each month. However, I 
suspect, given what I can see on the bank statements and the type of accounts that were 
outstanding that shed have to repay more than this because shed also have an element of 
interest to pay as well.  
Of course, on top of this, Mrs H was contracted to pay Everyday £348 each month, meaning 
just on credit commitments Mrs H wouldve been needed to repay at least £676 each month 
leading to Mrs H needed to repay almost 40% of her income each month just servicing her 
credit commitments. 
So like, the adjudicator, I do think this loan wasnt sustainable because shed be committing 
to spend a significant amount of her monthly income in repaying her credit commitments. 
Which given what else Everyday knew ought to have led it to conclude the repayments 
werent sustainable and there was a real risk that Mrs H wouldnt be able to repay this loan. 
In addition to this, Mrs H wouldve had seven outstanding credit commitments before any 
other living costs were taken off the other direct debits that can be seen in Mrs Hs bank 
statements  for example payments towards a television subscription service. So, I dont 
think Everyday shouldve approved this loan. 
I can see from the bank statements, that there was evidence of, in the two months before the 
loan being approved, Mrs H taking a short-term loan, repaying it and then immediately 
coming back for another loan. I do have concerns that this pattern of behaviour indicated 
that Mrs H was or likely having financial difficulties and further reinforces why I think this loan 
wasnt sustainable. 
Overall, I think there was a real risk that this loan was unsustainable for Mrs H given the 
amount each month she was committed to pay for her credit commitments. In addition, I 
dont consider that this loan wouldve made any real improvements to Mrs H overall financial 
position. 
Im therefore upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs H to repay the principal amount that she borrowed in 
respect of her loan, because shes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded 
Everyday shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees 
from the amounts due under the loan agreement. As Ive said above, it isnt clear whether the loan has been repaid, so for the purposes of the 
redress Ive assumed a balance remains.
If Everyday has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Everyday is not able to buy the debt back, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Everyday should:
  remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mrs H as payments towards the capital amount for this loan;
If and when Mrs H has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be 
refunded to her with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to the 
date of settlement; 
If an outstanding balance remains after carrying out the above, Everyday should try to 
come to a mutually affordable repayment plan with Mrs H  Id remind it of its obligation to 
treat Mrs H fairly and with forbearance and
remove any negative information about this loan from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday 
should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
 
Everyday Lending Limited should put things right for Mrs H as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman