DRN-3114414
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about QIC Europe Ltds handling of a claim they made on a buildings 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to QIC Europe Ltd within this decision, this includes its agents and 
representatives acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L insure a property with QIC. It has been damaged by subsidence and theyve 
made a claim on their policy. 
QICs initial response to their claim has been the subject of a complaint which was referred 
to our service. They remain unhappy with how QIC has handled their claim since we upheld 
the complaint and, after QIC were unable to resolve their further complaint, have referred it 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt think that QIC needed to do any more than it already had done. QIC 
had recognised that there were matters which could have been handled better and to 
recognise this, agreed to waive the £1000 policy excess which Mr and Mrs L would have 
been otherwise liable for. Our investigators view was that this was sufficient to compensate 
them for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, and considered that the compensation paid by QIC should be 
significantly higher. As no agreement could be reached, their complaints come to me to 
make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that the only matter that I need to determine here is whether QIC should be 
required to pay any additional compensation. That there were failings on QICs part isnt 
disputed, but the question is whether the waiving of the £1000 excess is sufficient.
Its clear that in waiving the excess that QIC have in effect paid £1000 compensation to Mr 
and Mrs L. The policy excess is stated within the policys terms and conditions and is a 
condition of the contract of insurance  theyd ordinarily have to pay this or have it deducted 
from any settlement made to them. By waiving it, Mr and Mrs L have £1000 that they 
wouldnt otherwise have if QIC had relied on the terms and conditions of the policy.
Compensation of £1000 would be awarded in situations where we consider the impact of a 
business mistakes has caused substantial distress, upset or worry. Ive considered whether 
this amount is fair in the circumstances or whether I should ask QIC to increase this.
The starting point in my considerations is that its important to recognise that claims for 
subsidence often take a significant amount of time to resolve and they often cause distress 
and inconvenience to policyholders. Such claims will often involve lengthy periods of 
monitoring, investigations to establish the cause of the subsidence, discussions around the 
appropriate and necessary repairs, and the repairs themselves. Such aspects (if handled 
properly) are part of such a claim, and the length of time taken and inconvenience caused in 
itself isnt enough to say that compensation should be awarded. I can only say compensation 
should be awarded where mistakes by the business (in this case QIC) have caused distress 
and inconvenience  for example due to avoidable delays or the conduct of QIC during the 
claim. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ls frustration with the amount of time taken before QIC started 
carrying out repairs. But Im not satisfied that delays which occurred during this time were 
the fault of QIC  surveys. Monitoring and other investigations were required over a period of 
16 months. There were delays in getting soil sample results and arranging a CCTV survey 
but these werent, Im satisfied, caused by QIC  the laboratory carrying out the analysis had 
a backlog and the CCTV survey was needed from a neighbouring property, who didnt 
respond to contact. And I can see that during that period, QIC were chasing up the 
responsible parties for progress.
Its accepted that the initial repair works werent up to the required standard and that there 
were delays in carrying out further works to rectify these. The contractors who carried out the 
substandard works were appointed by QIC and so QIC are liable for this. Its also clear that 
in discussions with QIC and the contractors, Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with the progress 
being made and the explanations given. 
As Ive said, the distress and inconvenience caused during properly carried out repairs 
wouldnt be something that QIC would be asked to pay compensation for. But that isnt the 
case here. The works werent completed satisfactorily, and it was several months before this 
was rectified. That is something QIC were at fault for. 
I can see from their submissions to our service how much this affected Mr and Mrs L. The 
issues around the repairs have occurred during a period of Covid-19 related lockdowns and 
restrictions, meaning they have spent a lot of time at the property which hadnt been repaired 
as it should have been. 
I agree that the impact on Mr and Mrs L as a result of the errors made by QIC was 
substantial. But, taking into account all of the evidence available to me and our general 
guidelines, I do think that £1000 compensation suitably recognises the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to them. As that is what QIC has effectively offered here, by waiving 
the excess, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman