DRN-3946855
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his account and wont provide 
the reason for having done so. Hed like to be compensated for his losses.
What happened
Mr G held accounts with NatWest, including a current account and an investment account. In 
June 2021 NatWest contacted him to say they no longer wished to provide banking services 
to him. They said theyd be closing the account in 14 days, but restricted use of the account 
immediately.
Unhappy with this Mr G raised a complaint, saying he hadnt been given a reason for the 
closure of his account, and hed been unable to access his wages. He felt that NatWest had 
discriminated against him because of his nationality. He also felt hed lost out on 
considerable future investment potential from his Stocks and Shares ISA. NatWest looked 
into what happened but didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. They said the decision to 
close his account wasnt for any discriminatory reasons; but was done in line with the terms 
and conditions, and they didnt need to elaborate on this further.
Dissatisfied with this answer, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. In August 2021, 
before our service had investigated the complaint, NatWest released the funds held in Mr 
Gs account to him.
Our investigator initially didnt feel NatWest had done anything wrong. They explained that 
NatWest may need to review accounts, which can involve blocking and closing accounts, 
and did not need to explain in detail their reasons for doing so. They felt the account closure 
was in line with the terms of the account. They didnt feel NatWest had taken too long to 
review the account, or release the funds to Mr G. And they said that they hadnt seen 
evidence NatWest had closed his account because of any discriminatory reason  they felt 
NatWest had treated him as they would anyone else in the same situation.
Mr G disagreed and provided further evidence for the investigator to consider about his 
salary, and communication with NatWest. The investigator also requested information from 
the bank about the investment account, and the process for releasing the funds to Mr G. But 
having considered all the evidence afresh the investigator still wasnt minded to say NatWest 
should do anything further.
Again, Mr G disagreed, saying he had not violated the terms of the NatWest account. As no 
consensus could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels that hes been discriminated by NatWest. The legislation that deals with 
discrimination in the UK is the Equality Act 2010. But the act is clear that only courts can 
decide whether the Equality Act has been breached. So, this isnt a finding Ill be making for 
Mr G. But my role asks that I consider this complaint based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable  which takes in to account relevant legislation, regulations, industry standards 
and what I consider to be good practice.
I also wont be able to make a finding about the conduct of any third parties  my role is to 
decide individual complaints between businesses and their consumers, rather than the 
actions of any other organisation. But Ive considered the wider circumstances of this 
complaint when reaching my decision. 
As a regulated financial business NatWest have legal and regulatory obligations to monitor 
accounts and understand how theyre being operated. And theyre entitled to review and 
block transactions in line with these requirements. They can also close accounts and arent 
under any obligation to explain why, so long as theyve kept to the terms of the account.
In this case NatWest have declined to share their reasons for closing Mr Gs accounts. I 
accept that Mr G will find this incredibly frustrating, but the bank havent done anything 
wrong by this. Having reviewed the reasoning myself, Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
decision to close the account was down to any of Mr Gs personal characteristics. Im 
satisfied that NatWest came to this decision fairly.
The terms of Mr Gs NatWest current account say they can close the account for any reason 
with 60 days notice. But in this case NatWest only gave 14 days notice. And in any event as 
no transactions were allowed, I consider the account to have been closed with no notice. 
The terms give a limited set of circumstances in which they can close an account 
immediately  these were outlined to Mr G in the final response letter. Ive considered these 
carefully, and overall, Im minded that in the circumstances of this complaint it was fair to 
close the account without giving any notice.
Turning to the investment account, the terms for this account explain in what circumstances 
they can suspend, restrict or withdraw services. There is no notice period outlined here. 
Again, having considered the reasoning behind the account closures, Im satisfied NatWest 
have adhered to their terms in closing the investment. To hold an investment account, the 
consumer also needs to hold a relevant account  or another NatWest account that can be 
used to pay money in, pay fees from and receive payments out. As Mr G would no longer 
have this, it stands he was no longer eligible for the investment account. I wouldnt think it 
reasonable to ask NatWest to cover any potential future investment income  especially as 
Mr G has had these funds returned to him, and hes free to invest them elsewhere.
The funds held in the account were returned to Mr G in August 2021. This is slightly longer 
than I may have expected to see, as he had returned the necessary forms at the end of 
June. But from the information Ive seen I cant say NatWest were responsible for this delay. 
Ive also seen from Mr G that he had banking facilities and access to funds with other banks, 
which will have lessened the impact of any delay. Once NatWest were in a position to 
release the funds they did so in a reasonable timeframe.
I dont doubt Mr Gs strength of feeling about how hes been treated. But Im satisfied 
NatWest havent been unfair or unreasonable in closing his account in the manner they did. 
For these reasons Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman