DRN-4046271
The complaint
Mr D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) decision to decline 
his claim under his home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D says he spilt water on his laptop, so he took it to the manufacturers store and they 
repaired it at no charge. Mr D says the store did mention to him his laptop could stop 
working at any point and this then happened in September. Mr D then received different 
repair estimates over a few days and he sent one for £846.24 to RSA. Mr D says they 
agreed to cover this but when he paid for the repair he was charged £692.12. Mr D says 
RSA claimed hed tried to defraud them of £154.12 as he didnt inform them about the lower 
repair cost until they requested evidence. RSA then refused to settle any repairs, voided the 
policy and reported this as fraud on the insurance database. Mr D complained as he said his 
only objective was to get his laptop back in working order  and this didnt happen until 6 
October. Mr D also felt an agent at a company appointed by RSA to investigate the claim 
was unprofessional and judged him based on their personal opinion.   
RSA responded and explained they asked Mr D for a report to validate the cause of damage 
and detailing the repairs needed. RSA said Mr D sent a report which confirmed the damage, 
so they arranged to pay Mr D £846.24 less the £100 excess. They said, when the payment 
was reviewed, it was declined as it raised questions about the extent of the damage relating 
to the water spillage. RSA said, on receiving a further report, it stated the repair costs were 
£692.12 which is lower than the settlement Mr D had accepted from them. RSA said, due to 
the inconsistencies in the reports, they instructed a company to investigate the claim. They 
said this company found that Mr D had accepted the higher settlement at the time hed paid 
the store the lower amount and so they decided to void the policy from 20 September  the 
date they say the misrepresentation took place. RSA said Mr Ds policy contained a specific 
fraud clause and this had been breached. RSA also said the companys agent had acted 
professionally throughout their handling of the investigation.      
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He thought RSA hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ds home insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says Mr D is covered for any accidental damage caused to computer 
equipment while in his home. Under a section headed Conditions and exclusions, and sub-
heading Fraud, it says, If dishonesty or exaggeration is used by youto obtain a claims 
payment under your policyall benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be 
invalid, you may not be entitled to a refund of premium and legal action may be taken 
against you.
I can see the incident involving the water spillage occurred in July 2022. Mr D took his laptop 
to the manufacturers store and, while they managed to get it working again, they couldnt 
guarantee there wouldnt be any further issues. Mr Ds laptop did stop working again in 
September, so he took it to the store again. Mr D explains the situation with repairs changed 
a number of times, and I can see he was given an estimate of £363.98, then £645.45 and 
then £846.24. A repair is then carried out by the store and Mr D pays an invoice for £692.12 
on 20 September, with the time showing on the invoice as 10.08am. RSA have provided an 
email which shows as being sent by Mr D on 20 September at 3.32pm. In this email, Mr D 
attaches the invoice for £846.24 and asks RSA to cover this.   
RSA then call Mr D at 4.24pm on 20 September. The RSA agent explains theyve received 
Mr Ds email and note the repairs total £846.24 for the damage caused by the water spillage 
and confirm theyre happy to settle on that cost less the excess, so that will be £746.24 
The agent asks for Mr Ds account details to make payment, which Mr D provides. The agent 
explains theyll raise the payment now and, after its been approved by their technical team, 
Mr D should receive the payment within three to five working days. 
The payment request is returned by RSAs internal team the following day, so they call Mr D 
and explain theres a discrepancy in what damage was caused by the water spillage. So, 
they ask Mr D to ask the store to get a report confirming the damage linked to the incident. 
On 22 September, Mr D emails RSA and explains his laptop wouldnt switch on and its now 
been deemed beyond economical repair. Mr D explains he now wants to replace the laptop 
and the cost is £1,250. Mr D asks for confirmation RSA will cover this and also explains hes 
still waiting for reimbursement of the costs paid for the original repair. RSA say they 
reviewed the claim on 26 September and ask for confirmation of the repairs which had taken 
place. Mr D then emails RSA attaching the receipt for the repairs in the sum of £692.12. 
   
Taking this into account and, in particular, the sequence of events, I dont think its 
unreasonable for RSA to decline the claim and void the policy on the basis they feel Mr D led 
them to believe the correct claim amount was £846.24. The information shows Mr D paid the 
store £692.12 at 10.08am on the morning of 20 September. Later that day Mr D sends the 
estimate for £846.24 and also doesnt correct the agent during a call later that day when they 
confirm the payment amount as £846.24. RSA then speak with Mr D on 21 September and 
this conversation focusses on the extent of damage which can be attributable to the water 
spillage. I cant see Mr D, at any point, during this call clarifies the amount he actually paid 
for the repairs. Then, the following day, Mr D sends an email saying his laptop has been 
deemed beyond economical repair. Mr D says he wants a replacement but also asks for 
reimbursement of the original monies for the repair At this point, the last estimate RSA 
have received  and the one which theyre working from  is the £846.24 amount. In this 
email Mr D asks for reimbursement but doesnt confirm the amount he actually paid is lower 
than the claim amount RSA are working from. On this basis, I think there were opportunities 
for Mr D to correct RSA on the claim amount. And given that he allowed RSA to continue to 
believe the claim amount was £846.24, I cant say theyve acted unfairly in taking the action 
they have.  
I understand Mr Ds argument is that his only objective here was to receive back a repaired 
and working laptop  and this wasnt the case until 6 October. Mr D says the repair process 
was fluid as it changed a number of times  so he didnt accept any reimbursement until he 
was satisfied he had a working laptop. I agree Mr D didnt actually receive the £846.24 and I 
also agree the estimates changed a few times with the store assessing and reassessing the 
full extent of the damage. So I do acknowledge why this caused confusion. But, I find the 
phone call on 20 September to be particularly persuasive in this case. This call took place 
after Mr D paid for the repairs, so I think its reasonable to say Mr D was fully aware during the call that hed paid less than what RSA were offering him as a settlement. And while I 
agree Mr D will have had some doubts about whether he now had a fully working laptop and 
whether further repairs might be required, he would clearly have been aware he hadnt paid 
out the amount RSA were offering. 
I acknowledge Mr D says he couldnt say with any certainty what the final total repair costs 
would be until his laptop was fully fixed on 6 October. But, the phone call with RSA on 20 
September and his email two days later requesting reimbursement, are both events which 
occurred after Mr D had paid the invoice for £692.12. So even if Mr D had some doubt as to 
whether further repairs might be required, I dont believe this shouldve prevented him from 
confirming with RSA the amount hed actually paid to date. 
I understand Mr D says, during the period between 20 September to 26 September, the 
store couldnt guarantee his laptop would remain working. And he also says, the fact that his 
laptop did stop working proves that he was right to have his doubts about whether the 
repairs carried out for £692.12 would fully resolve the issue. I acknowledge this, and I do 
wish to make clear, Im not saying Mr D shouldnt have had any doubts about the repairs. 
What Im saying here is that Mr D knew what hed paid at the point the phone call took place 
and this amount was lower than what RSA had agreed to pay him. The fact that RSA took 
Mr Ds bank details shows their intention to settle the claim at £846.24  but Mr D knew at 
the time this wasnt the amount hed paid so far for the repairs. 
I can see Mr D has provided his own copy of the email sent to RSA on 20 September 
attaching the £846.24 invoice. The one provided by RSA shows the time as 3.32pm - which 
was after Mr D had already paid the invoice for £692.12. But the one provided by Mr D 
shows the time as 6.50am  which is before he paid the invoice. Its not clear how or why 
theres a discrepancy here but I believe its more likely than not the email was sent at 
6.50am. I say this because the email says, I am collecting my machine this morning and the 
total bill is below. This suggests Mr D hasnt yet visited the store and, given that Mr D only 
first found out the repair cost was £692.12 when he attended the store later that morning, Im 
persuaded Mr D wasnt trying to exaggerate his claim when he sent this email. That said, it 
doesnt change my view about the phone call which did take place after Mr D had already 
paid the invoice for the lower amount. 
I understand Mr D feels the companys agent was unprofessional and rude when they spoke 
on the phone. Ive listened to two calls Mr D had with this agent, but I dont agree they were 
unprofessional or rude. The agent makes it clear their role is to investigate the claim and, 
while I do acknowledge Mr D did become frustrated at being asked for a response to 
questions hed already provided, part of the agents role involves validating the 
circumstances of a claim. So its not unreasonable for the agent to ask questions to establish 
the facts. I acknowledge it was upsetting for Mr D when the agent raised queries about      
Mr Ds actions following payment of the invoice as he feels this was accusatory. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable for the agent to explain what concerns they, and RSA, had about 
Mr Ds claim.   
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D as I can see his main objective here was to get his laptop 
repaired and fully working again. Its clear things were constantly changing in the early 
stages of the claim and I do acknowledge why this created some doubt for Mr D as to what 
the total costs were likely to be given that his laptop would work temporarily and then stop 
working again. But, as mentioned above, I believe there was a point during the 
communications between Mr D and RSA when it was clear the amount being offered by RSA 
was higher than what Mr D paid. My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly 
and reasonably in declining the claim and taking action to void the policy  and from the 
information Ive seen, I think they have.  
I wish to reassure Mr D Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman