DRN-3168294
The complaint
Ms W complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) decision to decline her claim 
under her home contents insurance. 
  
What happened
Ms W says she divorced her ex-husband but lived in one of his properties  which Ill refer to 
as property A. Ms W says while she was on holiday her ex-husband removed all the furniture 
and contents from property A and placed it into storage. Ms W says when she later got 
access to the storage facility, she noticed not all of her items were there and some had been 
left in a field at the back of property A  and became damaged beyond repair.   
Ms W reported this to Ageas and made a claim under her home contents policy. Ageas 
instructed a loss adjuster  who Ill refer to as company A  to investigate the claim. 
Company A made enquiries and found that there wasnt an admissible claim here and the 
claim related to a civil dispute which had been settled at court. Ms W complained to Ageas 
about the decision.  
Ageas responded to Ms Ws complaint and said company A had obtained information from 
Ms Ws divorce solicitors and this showed the incident related to a civil matter and not 
something Ageas could look to cover. Ageas referred to the policy wording and said the 
incident didnt meet the definition of malicious damage or theft  and they said the police 
also didnt register it as such. Ageas said, as Ms W was still married to her ex-husband at 
the time, by law, the items in property A were also his as they are part of the matrimonial 
assets. Ageas said company A felt all aspects of the dispute were addressed as part of the 
financial settlement of the divorce. They said company A explained it would be necessary for 
Ms Ws solicitors to provide evidence to prove that the incident leading to the claim 
represents a valid claim. Ageas said, unless Ms Ws solicitor can provide this, the decision to 
decline the claim is correct.  
  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Ms W and Ageas on 20 October 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ageas say the circumstances of this case dont fall within any of the terms of an 
admissible claim. In particular, they say it doesnt meet the definition of malicious 
damage or theft. Ageas refer to the policy booklet which defines malicious damage 
as, A person who, without lawful excuse, destroys or damages any property 
belonging to another intending to destroy or damage any such property or being 
reckless as to whether any such property would be destroyed or damaged shall be 
guilty of an offence. Ageas say, as Ms W was married to her ex-husband at the time 
the incident occurred, by law, the items in the property were also his as they are part 
of the matrimonial assets. 
Ms W has provided a copy of her Decree Absolute  which is the document which 
finalises her divorce. This shows Ms Ws divorce was finalised on 10 February 2017. 
I can see the financial arrangements arent settled until later but the Decree Absolute 
shows she is no longer married. Importantly here, it shows she wasnt married at the 
point the incident occurred in March 2018. So, I dont think its fair for Ageas to 
decline the claim on the basis that Ms W was still married and, therefore, the 
contents form part of the matrimonial assets.  
 
Ive looked at the Court Order dated 9 November 2018 finalising the financial 
arrangements between Ms W and her ex-husband. The Court Order sets out how 
various properties are to be divided  this includes property A which is awarded to 
Ms Ws ex-husband. In the Recitals section of the Court Order it says The parties 
agree that the terms set out in this order are accepted in full and final satisfaction 
of:all claims in respect of the division of the contents of the properties set out in the 
definition above and personal belongings including but not limited to furniture artwork 
jewellery and motor vehicles; The Court Order also says, from that date onwards, 
the contents of property A belong to Ms Ws ex-husband.  
Ageas say, it appears up to the date of the Court Order of 9 November 2018, the 
contents at property A were jointly owned. And from the date of the Court Order 
onwards, they are owned by Ms Ws ex-husband. They say, in the circumstances, 
such contents would not solely belong to Ms W. And, in that event, even if the 
contents hadnt been stolen but damaged, no claim for damage could be accepted as 
this would have been caused by a co-owner. I dont agree with Ageas findings in this 
respect as Ms W wasnt married at the time of the incident so I think its 
unreasonable for Ageas to take the view her ex-husband was a co-owner of the 
contents. Im further persuaded this is reasonable as the policy was taken out by Ms 
W alone. And, Ms W has provided evidence of receipts showing she paid for the 
contents after she divorced.  
I can see Ageas insist Ms Ws solicitors should provide evidence to prove that the 
incident leading to the claim represents a valid claim. I dont think its reasonable for 
Ageas to ask for such confirmation here as the Court Order dated 9 November 2018 
doesnt make any determination on who owned the contents at property A at the date 
of the incident. In fact, theres no evidence any determination has been made by the 
court during the whole proceedings about who owned the contents of property A at 
the date of the incident. 
So, in the absence of this, what we have here is evidence that Ms W wasnt married 
at the date of the incident, she had taken out a policy in respect of the contents of the 
house where she was living, the contents were bought by her after her marriage 
ended and they were damaged through the actions of a third party. 
I acknowledge the incident was reported to the police and they didnt record it as a 
theft and took the view this was a civil dispute. I can understand why they mightve 
taken this view as Ms W and her ex-husband were going through proceedings to 
settle the financial matters. But, the polices decision to not take any action at the 
time isnt a determination on who owned the contents at property A. Its clear from 
the signed statement Ms W provides to company A the police were aware of ongoing 
court proceedings and decided that is where the matter should be settled.   
Taking this all into account, I think Ageas have acted unfairly in declining Ms Ws 
claim on the basis of the reasons they have given. So, I think they should reconsider 
the claim. 
The signed witness statement prepared by company A for Ms W confirms the date 
she got divorced yet, despite this, Ageas continued to maintain that the damaged 
contents were matrimonial assets. I cant see Ageas at any point ask Ms W for clarity 
on this or to prove the date she got divorced. Its clear this has been very upsetting and frustrating for Ms W so I think Ageas should pay compensation of £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused.          
So, subject to any further comments from Ms W or Ageas, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, neither party has provided any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Ageas have acted unfairly in declining Ms Ws claim on the basis of 
the reasons they have given. So, Ageas should now reconsider Ms Ws claim further, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It is of course open to them to make 
any other further enquiries they feel are necessary but I dont think its reasonable for them 
to use the arguments they have to justify declining the claim. Ageas should also pay 
compensation of £100 to Ms W. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited must take the steps 
in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman