DRN-2123517
The complaint
Mr C and Ms T complain that TSB Bank plc refused to offer them a mortgage with a term 
that went past Mr Cs 75th birthday. 
Mr C and Ms T say that they feel TSB has not treated them fairly due to their age. They say 
they could have comfortably afforded the mortgage repayments from their pension and buy 
to let income.
They also complain that TSB unfairly applied an early repayment charge of around £500 
when Ms T redeemed her existing mortgage with TSB.
What happened
Ms T held a mortgage with TSB. She wanted to redeem her existing mortgage and take out 
a new mortgage for £110,000 in joint names with Mr C. At the time of the mortgage 
application Mr C was 65 years old. TSB initially said it would only lend to the oldest 
applicants 75th birthday. 
It said it couldnt agree to the mortgage Mr C and Ms T had requested as it didnt think it was 
affordable.
Mr C and Ms T were unhappy with TSBs decision and complained. They said they felt TSB 
was not treating them fairly due to their age.
TSB responded to say that it had recently changed its lending criteria and was now willing to 
considered lending beyond the 75th birthday of the oldest applicant. It said it would 
reconsider Mr C and Ms Ts application. Even allowing for a 14 year term, rather than the 9 
year term it has previously considered it said it was still not satisfied that the mortgage would 
be affordable. 
Mr C and Ms T asked it to reconsider its decision and said they would reduce the amount 
they wanted to borrow to £85,000. 
TSB said the most it was willing to lend was £62,705.
Mr C and Ms T were not satisfied with TSBs response and brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
all lenders are entitled to set their own lending criteria. And, based on its lending criteria TSB 
didnt think the mortgage was affordable for Mr C and Ms T. As this was the case she said 
she didnt think TSB had treated them unfairly when it refused to lend the amount they 
required.
Mr C provided a detailed response to our investigators view setting out why he felt the 
mortgage they had requested was affordable. He also confirmed that Ms T had sold her 
existing property and had not wanted to rent it out as our investigator had mistakenly said.
Our investigator re-considered her view in light of Mr Cs comments but said she still didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C and Ms T asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Mr C said they 
had been able to secure an £85,000 mortgage with another lender over a 10 year term. He 
said he felt this showed that the mortgage was affordable, and that TSB hadnt treated them 
fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am sympathetic to Mr C and Ms Ts position and I can see why Mr C feels strongly that 
TSB should have offered them the mortgage they required. 
It is not in dispute that Mr C and Ms T are in a financially secure position. Having considered 
all the points that Mr C has made, I appreciate that they made an informed decision before 
applying for the mortgage about the amount of borrowing they felt would be affordable.
But, as TSB and our investigator have explained, there is no requirement on TSB to agree to 
lend, or to agree to lend the amount a customer has requested. All lenders are entitled to set 
their own lending criteria. In Mr C and Ms Ts case this meant that TSB wasnt willing to 
consider the rental income they receive on the mortgaged buy to let properties they own. I 
do understand that Mr C feels this is unreasonable, but this is a decision TSB is legitimately 
entitled to make. I dont agree it treated Mr C and Ms T unfairly when it applied its lending 
criteria to their mortgage application.
I have also very carefully considered whether TSB treated Mr C and Mr T unfairly because of 
their age. Having done so I dont think it did treat them unfairly. As it explained in its final 
response letter dated 3 July 2019, it initially told them that the mortgage would have to end 
at the oldest applicants 75th birthday. But it then explained that it has reviewed this policy 
and agreed that it would be unfair to prevent customers from taking out a mortgage that 
ended past their 75th birthday. It set out that it would reconsider Mr C and Ms Ts application 
over a longer mortgage term. I therefore cant reasonably say that it did treat Mr C and Ms T 
unfairly due to their age.
I appreciate that Ms T incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £500 when she 
redeemed her TSB mortgage. Mr C has said he feels TSB should refund the charge. I can 
see why Mr C feels it is unfair that TSB applied an ERC when it had refused to lend them the 
amount they had requested. But as the terms of Ms Ts mortgage set out, porting her 
mortgage product to a new property was subject to TSBs lending criteria. 
I am pleased that Mr C and Ms T have been able to secure the mortgage the wanted with 
another lender. I do understand their frustration that TSB was not willing to consider all their 
sources of income. But all lenders are required to ensure that they lend responsibly and set 
their lending criteria with this aim in mind. I can see that Mr C feels that by applying its 
lending criteria to his and Ms Ts application TSB reached the wrong decision  but all 
lenders are free to set their own lending criteria.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr C and Ms T were hoping for. I hope this 
explanation helps them to better understand why I cant reasonably uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman