DRN-1415892
The complaint
Miss P complains, via her father, that Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
against her unfairly and has told her to pay for the claim. She also complains that Admiral 
hasnt given her a refund of her insurance premiums from the date her car was scrapped.
What happened
Miss P was involved a traffic accident on 8 November 2018 when she drove into a parked 
car. Her car and the other car were badly damaged. The other cars owner (third party) 
claimed to Admiral against Miss Ps policy and said she was at fault. 
Admiral investigated the accident and discovered Miss P hadnt provided a sample of her 
breath to police at the scene, although in its letter to her it wrongly said shed provided a 
positive sample. Admiral said Miss P had breached the terms of the policy which it cancelled 
from 7 March 2019 with a premium refund of £56.13. Admiral said that having reviewed the 
circumstances it must accept responsibility for the third-party claim. It said it had settled the 
claim and that under the policy Miss P is liable for its loss of £2,155.33. It said this included 
the total loss of the other car and a temporary replacement, less the salvage value. 
Miss P complained to Admiral about the confusion in its handling of liability for the claim and 
other mistakes. She said she wasnt given the opportunity to reduce the third-party costs by 
arranging an independent assessor to examine the car and Admiral had decided liability 
without enough evidence. She said she scrapped her car the day after the accident and the 
refund of premium should be from this date, and she provided a transfer note from a dealer. 
In its response Admiral apologised for causing confusion about the claim and saying Miss P 
gave a positive breath test and offered £100 compensation. But Admiral said it was correct 
to continue the policy until the cancellation date and correct to accept liability and settle the 
third-party claim as she was at fault. It said Miss P breached the terms of her policy by not 
providing a breath sample and the policy provided for it to recover the claim costs from her.
Miss Ps father said Admirals offer of compensation was just a token for its failures in 
dealing with the claim. He said the reason for her breach of the policy was known to Admiral 
in November 2018 and yet she was initially reassured that it was covering the claim, only to 
discover that it wasnt. He said Admiral acted without her authority and caused unnecessary 
delays and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said Admiral had settled 
the claim fairly. He thought Admiral correctly found Miss P to be in breach of the policy and 
could recover its losses from her. He said these were correctly calculated. He said there was 
no record of Miss P telling Admiral her car was scrapped in November 2018 and although 
Admiral knew it was undriveable it wasnt obliged to end the policy as it may have been 
repaired. He said Admirals communications were contradictory and caused Miss P 
confusion and so for this he recommended the compensation be increased to £250.
Miss Ps father disagreed saying Admirals conduct fell below acceptable standards, with 
unacceptable delays, incorrect statements, poor procedures, and contradictory actions. He 
asked why Admiral hadnt ended the policy when it knew about the scrappage and why 
damage reports hadnt been provided. He said the purpose of getting their own assessment 
was to establish that claimed costs were reasonable and damage was due to the incident. 
He said Admiral stated on 13 December 2018 that unless the insured agreed it would take 
no further part in settling the claim. But then, without referring back carried out contradictory 
action. 
The investigator re-checked the cancellation with Admiral, and it said that when theres been 
a claim the policy allows it to retain the premiums, rather than make a refund. Admiral said it 
had made an error as it shouldnt have refunded anything to Miss P. It said it wouldnt 
recover the refund it had made, and the investigator said this was fair.
Admiral agreed with the findings. Miss Ps father disagreed that Admiral had acted fairly. He 
said £250 compensation was too mild a rebuke to the insurance industry for poor practices. 
He said in acting as the third partys agent Admiral had contradicted its previous statements. 
He said as the policy had been cancelled it was unable to accommodate a claim from the 
third party and so liability shouldnt have been put to his daughter. Miss Ps father requested 
an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide who was at fault for the incident. I can only look to see if Admiral 
made its decision on how to settle the claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
available evidence and the terms and conditions of the policy.
If an insurer has assessed the evidence of a claim to conclude it doesnt have reasonable 
prospects of success in court and so doesnt think it had a strong enough case to defend, it 
may take over its defence and settle it. Admiral has a term in Miss Ps policy that allows this, 
and it doesnt need her agreement or consent to reach this decision. We think insurers can 
rely on this term as long as its fair and reasonable to do so in the circumstances.
Ive looked at Admirals decision to accept liability for the third partys claim and see that it 
received two independent witness statements and a video of the damage to Miss Ps car. 
Admiral obtained information about the incident and considered the evidence before settling 
the third party claim and from what Ive seen I think it has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Miss Ps father said the claim for the third partys costs was invalid as the policy should have 
been cancelled from scrappage by Admiral. He said Admiral then chose to act as the third 
partys agent. Admiral has used two powers under the policy, firstly not to indemnify Miss P 
for any claims and secondly to cancel her policy. An insurer is entitled to cancel a policy in 
Miss Ps circumstances when it has completed its investigation. Ive looked at its decision.
Admiral discovered that Miss P hadnt provided a sample of her breath to the police, and the 
policy states:
If an accident happens whilst you or any person entitled to drive under section 5
of your current Certificate of Motor Insurance:
 fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so,
without lawful reason.
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting 
the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances, we will recover 
from you or the driver, all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in settlement or 
under a court Judgment, of any claim arising from the accident.Miss P explained her inability to provide a sample at the time, which concerns her fathers ill 
health and her caring responsibilities for him. This wasnt a lawful reason not to provide a 
sample and so Admirals decision not to provide her with indemnity for any claim is fair. 
The policy allows Admiral to recover its losses from Miss P and it doesnt act as the third 
partys agent in doing so. Most of the £2,155.73 that Admiral requires Miss P to pay is a 
settlement for third-partys car. The remaining costs are mostly for providing the third party 
with a replacement vehicle and appear to be reasonable. £164 was then deducted from the 
total outlay for the salvage, so I think the outstanding balance of £2,155.73 is fair. 
Admiral cancelled Miss Ps policy from 7 March 2019 and refunded £56.13 for the remaining 
premium. It wasnt required to cancel the policy earlier though it might have done so under 
the terms. Miss Ps father said the policy was cancelled by Admiral so it would not have 
considered a claim for the insured's car as being valid or a third party claim as the policy was 
void. The policy was cancelled, not voided (annulled) and so was valid at the time of the 
incident and so Admirals obligation to the third party remained under the Road Traffic Act 
requirements and to Miss P until it applied the policy term requiring her to make good its 
losses. 
Miss Ps father said the refund of premium should be from 9 November 2018 when she 
scrapped her car. Although theres nothing to show Admiral knew shed scrapped her car 
then, I can understand the point. However, this is superseded by the policy term that states: 
If you have made a claim, or a claim has arisen during the period of insurance for your car, 
your cars part of the premium is due, and no refund will be given, regardless of the payment 
method. This means Admiral didnt need to give Miss P any refund where a party has made 
a claim. I think Admiral shouldve told her this from the start and the refund wouldnt then 
have become an issue. Not refunding premiums following a claim is standard industry 
practice and we think its reasonable, but Im pleased Admiral is not seeking to recover what 
its refunded Miss P.
Incidentally, on my enquiry the Driver Vehicle Licensing Agency have said they havent been 
notified that Miss Ps car has been scrapped. The DVLA states that it is an offence to scrap 
a vehicle and not notify the agency.
Miss P said the damage to the third partys car was minor, and she wanted the opportunity 
for an independent assessor to examine the damage. Ive seen a report that describes the 
damage as severe and describes the third partys car as a total loss with the bonnet 
crumpled up, parking sensor hanging down, water pump damaged etc. It states there was no 
evidence of pre-existing damage. Admiral was not required to provide reports to Miss P. 
Given that Miss P decided her car was an immediate write off it wasnt likely that damage to 
the third partys car would be minor. I think the damage to the third partys car was 
consistent with a total loss, when considering the value of £2,050. I agree with the 
investigator that even if Miss P had arranged for an independent assessment I dont think it 
would have made any difference in this case. 
Miss Ps father said Admiral changed its position on liability for the claim and caused 
confusion as shown by Admirals email of the 13 December 2018; although the company is 
under no obligation to negotiate claims from third parties ... we are prepared to put at your 
disposal our facilities to negotiate settlement of the third-party claim. I agree that this was 
confusing. Both Admiral and the investigator have pointed out that this was included in the 
email in error and doesnt apply to Miss Ps circumstances. In any event, Miss P didnt 
respond to this invitation.Miss P raised concerns about Admirals failure to respond to her correspondence. I can see 
this was the case at least once in December 2018. I think Admirals communication couldve 
been better and it should have explained the claim process to her. Admiral mistakenly said 
Miss P failed a breath test whereas Miss P didnt provide a sample. So, I can appreciate that 
Admirals letter would have caused her distress. 
Ive seen that Admiral contributed to delays in early 2019 which couldve been avoided.  
Some of Admirals content was inconsistent with the claim and I can understand why Miss P 
was confused. I think its decision to accept liability for the claim and recover its losses from 
Miss P is consistent with the terms of the policy and fair. Admiral mistakenly refunded some 
premium to Miss P when the policy was cancelled, but isnt seeking to recover this. All in all, 
I think the £250 compensation recommended by the investigator is about right for the impact 
of the communication errors and poor service Miss P received from Admiral during the claim. 
It should be borne in mind that its not our role to make an award in order to punish or rebuke 
a business, or the insurance industry.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss P compensation of £250 in total 
for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman