DRN-4347970
The complaint
Mr N complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) caused delays after he made a claim on his 
motor insurance policy, causing him to have to pay increased premiums on his new policy as 
the claim is still open.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr Ns car was hit by a third-party, whilst unattended, causing damage to 
the front of it. His car was parked at the time and the third-party did not stop. Two witnesses 
who saw the incident said the third-party was a courier delivery van and it had reversed into 
his car.
Mr N made a claim on his motor insurance policy. His car was repaired by esures 
authorised repairer and returned to him. 
esure wrote to the third-party courier company in December 2021. It gave the details of the 
allegations made about its driver hitting Mr Ns car. It did not get a response. 
esure have still not managed to obtain a response from the third-party courier company in 
relation to the allegations. It has said it is now pursuing a request to obtain the personal 
details of the driver of the delivery van and once received it will consider issuing legal 
proceedings to recover its costs.
The claim remains open on Mr Ns insurance record. 
In November 2022 esure said it could have been more proactive in pursuing the third-party 
to recover its costs and it agreed it had failed to call Mr N back when he requested it to. It 
paid him £150 for the shortfall in service. 
As Mr N was not happy with esure, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said esure should be 
more proactive in chasing the third-party for the information it required, they thought an 
increased compensation of £250 should be paid to Mr N. 
As esure is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What I provisionally said
In this case I saw that esure have not yet been able to obtain the details it requires to try and 
recover the cost of the claim from the third-party. Nor has it yet obtained any details of who 
was driving the third-party vehicle. The claim is currently recorded as an open claim whilst it 
continues to pursue the third-party. 
An 'open' claim (before a claim has been settled) is recorded as a fault claim. And although it 
is fair for an open claim to be recorded as fault, I would expect the insurer not to 
unnecessarily delay closing the claim.
In this case esure said its recovery team have been pursuing the third-party to obtain 
recovery of its costs to repair Mr Ns car. I saw it first wrote to the courier company in 
November 2021. It obtained an email address for the courier company and in March 2022, 
sent an email with its allegations. In August 2022 and October 2022 it emailed again to 
request its outlay for the costs of repairing Mr Ns car. 
 
esure said it has not had a response and said this is out with its control.
I saw esure agreed it could have been more proactive in its pursuit of the third-party.  It said 
as the third-party insurer had not responded to it, it submitted a request to obtain the name 
and address of the driver of the vehicle to be disclosed. It said once this information is 
received, it would consider issuing legal proceedings to recover its costs. It said there is no 
timeframe on this process, and it cannot issue legal proceedings without the personal details 
of the insured.
Mr N said due to the open claim this has meant an increase in the cost of his insurance 
premium. The open claim means it's treated as a 'fault' claim. If esure closes it now, when it 
has not recouped its losses from the third-party insurer, it would be closed and recorded as a 
fault claim. This means there is no adverse financial impact on Mr N having an open claim at 
the moment.
Whilst this claim is kept open this means esure are still looking into it and if it gets a 
response from the third-party there is a chance of it being closed potentially as non-fault. 
And as Mr N is still insured with esure, I saw it has said if the claim is closed as non-fault, it 
would re-rate his policies and refund anything he'd paid for when his premium was rated with 
a fault/open claim.
Whilst I accept this claim has been open for more than one year, the length of time a claim 
can be left open depends on the accident circumstances. In this case the third-party are not 
being responsive to requests for information, so esure have now requested the personal 
details of the driver and are currently pursuing this route.
I think esure could have been more proactive in pursuing the third party. esure itself has said 
this in its response to Mr N and paid him £150 for the shortfall in service.
After our investigator recommended the compensation was increased to £250 due to esure 
not being  proactive in chasing the third-party, I saw that Mr N accepted this. I saw esure 
offered to increase its offer to £200 but not £250. 
Although I understand Mr N will be disappointed I think £200 is a fair offer for the lack of 
proactive pursuing of the third party in these circumstances. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint and intend to require esure to pay a total of 
£200 to Mr N.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr N responded to say he accepted my provisional decision.
esure responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr N and esure accepted my provisional decision, I maintain my provisional decision 
and I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr N a total of £200 compensation less the £150 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman