DRN-3131527
The complaint
Ms J says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. Ms J 
says she was in a debt spiral and so she couldnt afford the loan repayments. She thinks 
that LaH shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans LaH provided to Ms J between 
July 2017 and December 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below. 
loan date takeninstalments 
(weekly)amount date repaid
1 12/07/2017 45 £700 11/04/2018
2 13/09/2017 75 £2,600 31/10/2018
3 11/04/2018 45 £625 12/12/2018
4 31/10/2018 78 £2,500 11/12/2019
5 12/12/2018 45 £750 31/07/2019
6 31/07/2019 46 £750 22/07/2020
7 11/12/2019 63 £2,000 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said that the payments Ms J was due to make right 
from the start were too great a proportion of her declared income. He also said that the 
information LaH had shouldve indicated to it that it wasnt likely that Ms J wouldnt be able to 
afford to make the repayments. He thought the lending pattern itself was harmful by loan 5. 
He didnt think that LaH should have approved any of the lending.  
LaH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Its response concerned loan 1. It said that it 
didnt think the repayment was too high a proportion of Ms Js income at around 12.5% of 
this. And it also said that Ms J had enough disposable income to comfortably repay the loan. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Js complaint in full and Ive have explained why below.
When loan 1 was approved Ms Js income was recorded as being around £224 per week. 
This was made up of £60 from her partner, the remainder was benefit income. The 
repayment for loan 1 was £28 a week for 45 weeks. 
I do accept what LaH has said in that, for a first loan, a payment of around 12.5% of Ms Js 
income may not have been too great an amount to repay. Although, it is a reasonably high 
amount of what could be described as a modest income. 
But looking a bit further into Ms Js circumstances I think there are other concerns here. Im 
firstly not entirely persuaded its reasonable to include the money she received from her 
partner in these calculations. Ive nothing to show this was a permanent arrangement and it 
couldve ended if Ms Js partner had problems of their own. So this needs be borne in mind 
when thinking about her other circumstances. 
Ms Js weekly outgoings were recorded as being £80 on food and £10 on a mobile phone. 
Her partner paid the remainder of the bills. Which I also accept could have been the case. 
But it was also recorded on her application that she already paid £40 a week to another 
home credit provider. Adding this to the new LaH loan means that Ms J would be paying £68 
a week to other creditors. This is against an independent income of £164. Adding these to 
her other expenditure means she had very little left over from her own income. 
Taking all of these factors into consideration I think this lending wasnt responsible. And LaH 
shouldnt have approved loan 1.  Ive concentrated on the approval of loan 1 as LaH specifically responded to the 
adjudicators opinion about this loan. But its worth noting that Ms Js circumstances hadnt 
materially changed by loan 2, which was approved just a few months later. I accept her 
income did rise but not by a great deal. And this loan was for a far larger amount. And Ms J 
made a commitment to make 75 weekly repayment of £65. Bringing her total weekly 
repayments to £93 a week. Ms Js lending with LaH remained high for the remainder of the 
loans. 
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 5 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. So, I think LaH was irresponsible to continue lending after this point. LaH 
hasnt raised any further issues about this so I wont comment further. 
So I also I dont think it was responsible to approve loans 2 to 7. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had not lent to Ms J. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all 
hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Ms J loans 1 to 7.
If LaH has sold the outstanding debts LaH should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LaH is not able to buy the debts back then LaH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms J towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms J which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms J originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms J as though they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms J having made 
overpayments then LaH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LaH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Ms J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then LaH 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms J. 
E) LaH should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit file in relation to 
loans 1 to 4. The overall pattern of Ms Js borrowing for loans 5 to 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Js credit 
file. LaH does not have to remove loan 7 from Ms Js credit file until these have been repaid, 
but LaH should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Ms 
J a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Js complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman