DRN-3933708
The complaint
Mr M complains Sky UK Limited are holding him liable for everything due under a fixed sum 
loan agreement. 
What happened
Mr M chose to upgrade his mobile phone and ordered a new handset from Sky. The phone 
was to be paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement also provided by Sky. It was delivered 
but shortly after receiving it, in April 2022, Mr M contacted Sky to say he wasnt happy with 
the new handset and wanted to exchange it for a different one. Sky agreed, so Mr M 
returned the handset, the loan agreement was cancelled, and a new fixed sum loan 
agreement was entered into for the new handset, which was delivered a few days later. 
Mr M says when he opened the box for the new handset, the phone wasnt inside. He raised 
a complaint with Sky, who investigated but said it found no evidence that the delivery 
packaging had been tampered with. It said that Mr M was liable to pay for the phone and 
therefore he needed to continue paying the monthly repayments for the loan agreement. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said he was persuaded it was 
more likely than not that the phone was missing when it was delivered to Mr M. He said that 
what Mr M had said was consistent and plausible and pictures supplied by him appeared to 
support what hed said about it being possible to access the contents inside the delivery box 
without fully opening it. Further, he wasnt satisfied Sky had provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate what it had said about the robustness of the packaging and delivery process. 
Sky didnt agree. It accepted it was possible for the delivery box to fold inwards, however, it 
said despite this it wasnt possible to access the contents without damaging the box and 
there was no evidence to show the delivery box had been tampered with. It said there was 
no damage to the external or internal box. It said it had provided evidence of a successful 
and compliant delivery, evidence of the weight of the delivery box and details of the 
investigation carried out by it and its delivery partners all indicating the phone was inside 
when delivered. It said the events here are consistent with an empty box scam and Mr M 
has provided no persuasive evidence that he didnt receive the phone. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out a credit agreement in order to finance the purchase of the phone. As the 
supplier of that phone, Sky was also responsible for the delivery of it to Mr M. There were 
two separate contracts that Mr M entered into with Sky. One was for the supply and use of 
the phone and the other was the fixed sum loan agreement to pay for the phone. However, 
both contracts were essentially sold as one package. Mr M was required to enter into the 
credit agreement because he chose not to pay for the phone upfront.
I think its relevant for me to consider both contracts together when considering whether Sky 
treated Mr M fairly. I say this because it appears it was a term of the fixed sum loan 
agreement that Mr M entered into the linked contract for the phone. So, I consider that the 
two contracts were intrinsically linked.
I note the credit agreement has terms which seek to prevent Mr M from reducing his liability 
under the agreement by way of deduction, set-off or counterclaim. For instance, this might 
be in situations where Mr M might have a claim about the failure to supply the goods to him 
under the linked contract for goods and services. Ive thought about what the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 says about contract terms. While it is ultimately for a Court to decide if a 
contract term is unfair, Im required to take the law into account when deciding whats fair 
and reasonable.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to prevent Mr M from potentially setting off a 
claim under one contract against the other. This is because to do so would cause a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and I dont think this significant clause was made 
sufficiently clear prior to Mr M entering into the credit agreement.
The issue therefore is whether I consider, on balance, that the phone was delivered to Mr M. 
Having done so, Im persuaded that it is more likely than not that the phone was already 
missing at the time Mr M took delivery of the package. Ill explain why. 
Ive noted Skys concerns about known scams of this nature. However, that in and of itself 
doesnt mean that the phone was inside the box when it was delivered. I think its relevant 
here that Mr M took delivery of a very similar phone a few days earlier from Sky and returned 
it with no issues. Whilst this isnt definitive proof, it does add weight to the argument that 
Mr M wasnt intending to scam Sky, if he had been, its likely the first phone would have been 
reported missing.
I also disagree with Sky that Mr M hasnt provided any persuasive evidence of non-receipt of 
the phone. It is much harder to prove a negative, but when taking into consideration all the 
available evidence and circumstances in this specific case, Im persuaded by what Mr M 
says and has provided. The pictures of the outer delivery packaging do appear to show that 
it might be possible to gain access to the contents of the box without visibly damaging it. Sky 
appears to accept the bottom of the outer box could fold in on itself too. However, while Sky 
says this wouldnt have made it possible to access what was inside, its provided no 
evidence to back this up.
Sky has placed significant reliance on its robust packaging process, which includes various 
checks on the packaging and its weight, including under CCTV surveillance. Although it 
hasnt provided us with any of the footage from the packing process, Im persuaded from 
what Sky has descried that the phone was most likely inside the delivery box when it left 
Skys warehouse and its various checking procedures. 
However, I note that there was a three day gap between it leaving that warehouse and 
arriving at Mr Ms property. As Ive already set out above, the available evidence appears to 
suggest it was possible to access the internal contents without significantly damaging the 
box and although Sky disagrees, it hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to demonstrate 
why. The box inside containing the phone was small and fairly thin so it does seem plausible 
from the available pictures that it could have been accessed and placed back inside. As 
there appears to have been ample time between the delivery box leaving Skys warehouse 
and arriving with Mr M for such a switch to take place, Im satisfied, albeit on balance, that 
the phone was likely already missing by the time Mr M took the delivery. 
As Im persuaded that Mr M didnt receive the phone, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Sky to seek repayment of the fixed sum loan agreement from Mr M. I accept its possible 
Mr M did take delivery of the phone, however, on the available evidence and circumstances 
in this specific case I dont think that was more likely for the reasons Ive given. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Sky UK Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Refund any payments Mr M has made towards the agreement, adding 8% simple 
interest per year to each refund from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit file. 
If Sky considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Mr M with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so that he can reclaim 
that amount if he is entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman