DRN-3401276
The complaint
Ms M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide her with an alternative way of 
receiving one-time passcodes so she could use her credit card online whilst abroad.
What happened
Ms M has a credit card issued by Barclaycard  she used to have a credit limit of £5,250.
On 4 January 2021 Ms M contacted Barclaycard to say that she wanted to change the 
number on her account to an international one, but that option wasnt available. She said she 
was having difficulties making online payments because Barclaycard wanted to send the 
confirmation code to a number she no longer used.
On 6 January 2021 Barclaycard changed the number on her account to her international one 
but said that the confirmation code could only be sent to a UK number. Ms M said that she 
was abroad and so didnt have a UK mobile number so couldnt receive the code.
On 11 January 2021 Barclaycard said to Ms M that it could send a PIN sentry device to her 
which shed be able to use to generate the code to get round the problem. Barclaycard said 
that this device would have to be sent to her UK address, and that shed have to arrange for 
it to be forwarded. Ms M said that this wouldnt work for a number of reasons not least that 
the PIN sentry device wouldnt reach her in time as she had an urgent bill to pay. Ms M gave 
Barclaycard a UK mobile number  belonging to a friend  as a temporary workaround 
instead. This didnt work and, to make matters worse, Barclaycard added it as a permanent 
number rather than a temporary one.
Ms M complained about everything that had happened and paid her urgent bill over the 
phone. In the meantime, Ms M told Barclaycard that she wasnt going to pay her credit card 
bill until a permanent solution was found in the hope that it would start listening to her. Ms M 
says Barclaycard charged her a late fee and interest and reduced her credit limit to £250 
rather than listening to her. Ms M was unhappy about this, saying she had an impeccable 
credit rating. So, she complained to us, saying that she couldnt understand why Barclaycard 
wouldnt accept a non-UK number, yet she was able to use a foreign number to confirm 
payments on a debit card issued by Barclays. She said she wanted Barclaycard to offer a 
viable alternative for her whilst she was abroad, to refund the charges and interest that had 
been applied to her card and to restore her impeccable credit rating and previous limit.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint and said they didnt think Barclaycard 
had acted unreasonably as it had offered to send a PIN sentry device to Ms Ms address in 
the UK. They didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly charging Ms M a late fee and 
interest either  as shed not made her monthly minimum payment  or reducing her credit 
limit. And they thought Barclaycard had already compensated Ms M fairly for incorrectly 
adding a temporary number as a permanent number. Ms M didnt agree with our investigator 
and asked for an ombudsman to look into her complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has a credit card issued by Barclaycard and a debit card issued by Barclays. She 
appears to have opened both accounts whilst living in the UK, but now lives abroad.
In January 2021 Ms M wanted to use her credit card to make an online payment to a retailer. 
That meant she had to authenticate the transaction  a process to which Barclaycard had 
made changes in order to implement strong customer authentication. Those changes meant 
that Ms M had to authenticate the payment using Barclaycards mobile banking app, or a 
one-time passcode sent to a mobile number or a PIN sentry device. As Ms M rightly points 
out, Barclaycard requires customers authenticating using the first two methods to do so 
using a UK mobile number. I accept that Ms M doesnt have a UK mobile number as she 
now lives abroad, meaning that the first two options wont work for her.
Barclaycard has told us that its accounts are meant for UK residents, so I can see why the 
first two options assume that its customers have a UK mobile number. But customers might, 
as Ms M rightly points out, want to authenticate from abroad when, for example, theyre 
travelling and might not have access to a UK number when wanting to do so. I might, in the 
circumstances, have agreed that Barclaycard had acted unfairly in this case had it only 
offered those two options. But it didnt  it offered a third option, namely using a PIN sentry 
device. As Ive already mentioned to Ms M, I can see no reason why she wouldnt be able to 
use a PIN sentry device  a device that doesnt rely on a mobile signal. I accept that 
Barclaycard said it could only send a PIN sentry device to Ms Ms UK address, but I dont 
think in this particular case it was unreasonable of Barclaycard to say that Ms M would need 
to arrange for that device to be forwarded to her so that shed be able to authenticate in the 
future.
Ms M told Barclaycard that a PIN sentry device wouldnt have reached her in time as she 
had an urgent bill to pay. I can, however, see that the payment wasnt made until 30 January 
2021  more than two weeks after Barclaycard offered to send her a PIN sentry device. So, I 
dont necessarily agree there wasnt enough time. I can see Ms M phoned the retailer 
instead and used her Barclaycard to pay over the phone. But she could have used the 
device for future payments too.
Ms M says shes since discovered that shes able to use her debit card to make payments 
online as Barclays send confirmation codes to international numbers. Shes questioned why 
Barclaycard cant send confirmation codes to international numbers if Barclays can. Ms M 
makes a fair point. I am, however, satisfied that the FCA has told businesses that they need 
to provide viable alternatives to authenticating using a mobile phone, but has left it to 
businesses to decide what methods they ultimately use as long as they provide viable 
alternatives. So, I dont agree that Barclaycard had to offer the option of authenticating using 
a non-UK mobile number, as long as it offered viable alternatives. And in this particular case, 
including in this cases particular circumstances, I think Barclaycard did when it offered to 
send a PIN sentry device to Ms M.I can understand why Ms M decided not to pay her credit card in the hope that Barclaycard 
would listen. I can also understand why shes angry that Barclaycard charged her a late fee 
and interest and reduced her credit limit. But in this particular case, I cant say Barclaycard 
did anything wrong as Ms M had agreed to make minimum monthly payments towards her 
credit card. Now that more than six months has passed, Ms M could apply to have her credit 
limit increased should she wish to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman