DRN-4108532
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plcs (Barclays) BarclaysPlus account is not 
fit for purpose. Mr R says that the account is only accessible via mobile and branch banking 
but says that that the mobile banking is extremely limited in what he can do. Mr R says that 
the opening times for his local Barclays branch are inconvenient for him too.
Mr R is also unhappy about how his complaint was handled.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, but they were unable to find that Barclays 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Based on what Mr R has said, it seems that he is essentially unhappy with the limited 
features of the BarclaysPlus account and would like Barclays to improve them, or at the very 
least, change them for him specifically. 
From what I can see, the features of BarclaysPlus accounts are purposefully limited to 
protect the account holders, as the BarclaysPlus account is designed for 11  15-year-olds. 
Although I can see that Barclays did explain that Mr R could change his account to a Young 
Persons account once he reached the age of 16  which includes more functionality than the 
BarclaysPlus account.
Ultimately, it is up to Barclays to decide what features and functionality its different accounts 
come with  and it is for the account holder to determine whether the individual products suit 
their own needs or not. So if it is the case that Mr R felt, having opened the account, that the 
(limited) functionality of the account did not in fact suit his lifestyle, then it is essentially up to 
Mr R to decide whether to keep the account or to find an account with another provider that 
better suits his needs. And as the adjudicator explained, our service is not the regulator, so 
we are unable to instruct Barclays to change its products and the features of its various 
accounts.
I note that Mr R has also said that, because of the limited functionality on the account, he 
needs to attend a Barclays branch to carry out certain functions but says that the opening 
times of his local branch are inconvenient for him. Whilst I do appreciate that this may be 
frustrating for him, ultimately, if the branch opening times are not convenient for Mr R, again 
I can only suggest he find an alternative bank or building society that better suits his needs. 
As mentioned above, it is beyond the remit of this service to instruct Barclays to keep its 
branches open to better suit individual customers.
As such, based on everything I have seen I cant say that Barclays has done anything wrong 
in relation to the BarclaysPlus account. Therefore, I cant reasonably instruct Barclays to pay 
Mr R compensation just because he is unhappy that Barclays refused to customise the 
features of the account for him specifically. 
Finally, I note that Mr R is also unhappy with how Barclays handled his complaint. However, 
our service is unable to consider complaints about complaint handling, as that is not a 
regulated activity. Therefore, I cant comment on this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman