DRN-3902325
The complaint
Ms A complains that Lowell Financial Ltd is unfairly seeking to collect a debt in her name. 
What happened
Lowell purchased an account in Ms As name from a business Ill call N in February 2021. At 
the time of purchase the account was in default and subject to an outstanding balance. 
When Lowell purchased the debt it recorded the account on Ms As credit file and noted it 
was in default. 
Lowell referred Ms As account to a third party firm of solicitors to collect. Ms A went on to 
advise the solicitors that she disputed the debt and it returned the account to Lowell. 
Ms A went on to raise a complaint with Lowell and said the balance due on her previous 
account had come about due to fraudulent transactions. Lowell looked into Ms As concerns 
and contacted N for information about her account. N advised it had investigated a complaint 
made by Ms A but found the transactions were genuine and that the debt remained 
outstanding. An ombudsman at this service looked at Ms As complaint about N but didnt 
uphold it. 
Lowell sent Ms A a final response and said it had looked into her concerns about how the 
debt came about but didnt agree it was acting unfairly by seeking to collect it from her. 
Lowell also said the account had been purchased from N having already been defaulted and 
that it took on responsibility for reporting that the account was in default on Ms As credit file. 
Lowell also confirmed that when the solicitors returned the account, it incorrectly advised 
that the balance was £0 on its systems. But Lowell confirmed the balance remained 
outstanding. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms As complaint. They thought Lowell had dealt 
with it fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms A asked to appeal and said the 
outstanding balance had come about due to fraud and that her case shouldve been upheld 
as a Section 75 complaint. As Ms A asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by explaining that in this decision Im only able to look at Lowells actions in 
relation to the account it purchased from N. I know Ms A has complaints concerning how the 
debt came about and that the transactions werent made by her. Ms As told us she thinks 
the complaint shouldve been dealt with as a Section 75 case. But here, the complaint 
relates to Lowells actions following the purchase of the account. No new transactions have 
been applied to the account since it was purchased and Ms As complaints relate to the 
events that took place beforehand. I appreciate Ms A remains concerned about Ns actions 
and the debt, but that was the subject of another complaint and ombudsmans decision. So 
Im not going to comment further on Ns actions here. As Ive noted, this decision is going to 
focus on Lowells actions and whether it treated Ms A fairly. 
Lowell sent Ms A a Notice of Assignment in February 2021 when it purchased the debt. It 
explained Ms A should make arrangements to contact it to discuss repayments. When Ms A 
advised Lowell and its solicitors she was in dispute with N about the debt it investigated her 
concerns and checked with the business. N advised it had reviewed Ms As complaint and 
that the outstanding balance was valid and owing. As Ms As concerns about the 
transactions relate to the period before Lowell purchased her account Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Lowell to contact N. And N confirmed the transactions were genuine and Ms 
A remained liable for the outstanding balance. Im sorry to disappoint Ms A but Im satisfied 
Lowell dealt with her concerns regarding the outstanding balance fairly and that it has a 
legitimate reason to contact her about repayments. 
Ms As also complained about the default recorded on her credit file. But when Lowell 
purchased the account it took over responsibility for reporting its status to the credit 
reference agencies. The information Ive seen shows that the account was in default when 
Lowell purchased it. I havent seen anything that shows Lowells made a mistake by 
recording the default on Ms As credit file. 
Lowells solicitors incorrectly advised the balance was repaid when it returned the account. 
But Lowells confirmed this was a mistake and its final response apologised for any 
confusion that was caused. I appreciate this was an error and caused some confusion. But 
Im satisfied Lowell set out the correct position when responding to Ms As complaint and 
that its apology was a fair and reasonable way to deal with the matter. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms A but as Im satisfied Lowell dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman