DRN-4337042
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) wont refund the money he lost to an 
investment.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In July 2017, Mr D received information or advice from an investment company (I will refer to 
as W) to invest money into an investment - with an organisation I will refer to as G. On 31 
July £10,000 debited Mr Ds account after he issued a cheque to W.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. Whilst he thought the amount warranted 
intervention by AIG, he didnt think any intervention by the bank would have made a 
difference in this case as G looked to be a genuine company at the time.
Mr D did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the 
points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in 
reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive 
instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
I note G has been dissolved. However, it seems that the outcome to whether this is a scam 
or not is not currently known. But I dont need to wait for that outcome, nor do I need to make 
a finding on this - to reach an overall outcome that I consider to be fair and reasonable in this 
particular case.
A cheque is not considered a payment service under the previous or present Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs), so the provisions of those regulations do not apply to this type 
of payment.
The starting position is that the bank is expected to process payments that a customer 
instructs it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance 
with the terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, 
regulatory or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of 
a payment instruction. 
At the time, Mr D signed the cheque and intended to pay W believing it was (in turn) going to 
place this in a valid investment with G and there was no mistake made in the execution of 
the payment  AIG was complying with Mr Ds instruction. So, under the terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr D is presumed liable for any loss in the first instance.
However, a bank may be in breach of its duty of care by not acting adequately or at all on 
information that would or should have triggered fraud alerts and systems required for the 
proper conduct of business.  
I dont consider there to be a material difference between the reasonable, good-practice 
requirements on firms when processing cheques when it comes to monitoring accounts for 
the prevention of financial crime and having adequate systems and controls in place to 
prevent misappropriation of funds. 
AIG says the cheque was payable to W  a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated 
company who deal with investments and are active on Companies House. Mr D did not 
make any payments to G directly.
If AIG had intervened on the payment, I dont think it would have made a difference in this 
case broadly for the reasons the investigator previously outlined  which I have expanded on 
below.
Causation is a critical determination factor in every fraud case. I need to be satisfied that 
suitable intervention would have made a difference to Mr Ds decision making or that AIG 
could have reasonably prevented the loss. In doing so, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  so what I consider more likely than not based on the evidence and wider 
circumstances of the case.
Mr D made the payment to W - a firm regulated by the FCA as a provider of payment 
services. So, the payment was going to a legitimate destination. If questions had been asked 
about the nature and purpose of the payment Mr D was proposing to make, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr D would have explained he was investing in G - itself a UK registered 
company and recommended by W - another genuine UK registered company. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr D might have researched things more  I dont think the investment 
would have been cause for concern at the point of transfer or the events that have now 
transpired with G foreseeable. Mr D was making a payment to W which appears through its 
registration with Companies House - to be legitimate and is still authorised by the FCA as a 
provider of payment services. If it had probed further, it might have discovered that Mr D was 
making an investment with an organisation (G). Records held with Companies House 
indicate G was a genuine limited company that was incorporated in 2007 and was actively 
trading (with no suggestion of liquidation) at the time Mr D sent his money to W. So, the 
payment didnt look like fraud or a scam and it would have needed a considerable amount of 
investigation to unearth the facts about G that have now come to light (and which even now 
seem inconclusive after a considerable amount of time). So, I dont think AIG ought 
reasonably to have cause for concern.
Im sorry Mr D has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why he would 
like to be compensated for his losses. But Im only considering whether the bank should be 
held responsible for what happened here, and I dont think that it should.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman