DRN-2897993
The complaint
Mr H complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) is acting unfairly in 
applying excess mileage charges following the termination of his hire-purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr H had a car under a four-year hire-purchase agreement with BMWFS. He says during 18 
months of keeping the car, he experienced a series of problems with it. Mr H sought to return 
the car to BMWFS. BMWFS wrote to Mr H to say that it would support voluntary termination 
of the hire-purchase agreement, saying any shortfall due would be covered to allow him to 
return the car.
However, shortly afterwards BMWFS sent Mr H an invoice charging him for mileage hed 
done over the allowance set out in the original hire-purchase agreement. Mr H objected to 
this charge, saying it was agreed that the return would be at no cost to him. BMWFS said 
that as Mr H had exercised the voluntary termination option in his agreement, he was liable 
for the excess mileage.
BMW considered the excess mileage charge was consistent with provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974). It instructed a collection company to recover the 
amount in question. Mr H paid the sum to avoid his credit file being adversely impacted. But 
he disagreed with BMWFSs position, and referred matters to us.
Our investigator discussed the complaint circumstances with BMWFS. Following those 
discussions, BMWFS told us it had allowed voluntary termination without seeking the 
shortfall from Mr H that would normally be payable, but that this didnt apply to the excess 
mileage charge. However, in the interests of resolving the complaint, BMWFS offered to 
refund the excess mileage charges Mr H had paid.
The investigator put this proposal to Mr H, who didnt accept it. He wants BMWFS to pay him 
compensation. BMW has declined to do so, and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint ultimately flows from his dissatisfaction with the car BMWFS supplied to 
him. From what I can see, the parties agreed on a resolution to that problem, under which 
Mr would terminate his agreement early and take out a new agreement for a different car. 
There were other ways of resolving that dispute, but that was the mechanism that Mr H and 
BMWFS agreed between them. Where it seems the parties were at odds is over the terms of 
the return arrangements.
Ordinarily, when exercising voluntary termination of a hire-purchase agreement, the 
consumer is liable to return the goods and pay at least half the total amount payable under 
the agreement. At the time of termination, Mr Hs agreement had run less than half its four-
year term, which suggests at that stage he hadnt paid at least half the total amount payable. 
BMWFSs letter said that any shortfall due would be covered. This, I think, is where the 
confusion arose.
If Ive understood the respective positions correctly, BMWFS meant the shortfall between 
what Mr H had paid and half the total amount payable. But Mr H understandably believed 
hed have nothing further to pay. And I think BMWFS could have been clearer in its wording, 
to avoid the possibility of such a misunderstanding.
Im pleased to see that BMWFS has subsequently offered to reimburse Mr H. I think that 
proposal recognises Mr Hs position irrespective of the relative strengths of the parties 
arguments, and in the circumstances its a fair way to resolve his complaint. Im conscious 
Mr H seeks additional compensation in order to settle matters. Hes mentioned he had to 
delay his mortgage plans while the debt showed as outstanding on his credit file. However, 
Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate for me to require this. While I appreciate there 
was disagreement between the parties, that isnt in itself reason to make such an award. In 
my view, BMWFS hasnt caused Mr H unnecessary trouble or upset by not accepting his 
position from the outset.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, noting that BMWFS has now offered to refund the 
charge it made for the excess mileage, I dont consider it necessary for me to reach a 
conclusion on whether the charge is consistent with any relevant legislation.
My final decision
My final decision is that to resolve Mr Hs complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
should refund the amount he paid as an excess mileage charge, as it has already proposed 
to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman