DRN-2331299
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt paid her funds a relative sent to 
an account she used to hold with it.
What happened
Miss Ms relative made some payments intended for an account in Miss Ms name held at 
Barclays. Miss M contacted Barclays when she realised something had gone wrong as she 
had not received the payments. 
Barclays explained that the account number Miss Ms relative had used was no longer 
allocated to Miss M. It said that Miss M had closed that account in 2013 - when she opened 
a new type of account with it. And that the account number (ending 8988) had been recycled 
- in line with its normal process, five years after the account had been closed. And so that 
account number now belonged to a third-party.
Barclays told Miss M it would contact the new account holder but couldnt guarantee that 
they would return her funds. But it didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said it hadnt done 
anything wrong. So, Miss M referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong in respect of the crux of Miss Ms complaint. But he noted 
that Barclays had since accepted it gave Miss M some incorrect information around the 
process of recovering funds sent to an incorrect account and that it had offered £100 in 
recognition of this. And he thought the £100 Barclays had offered in the context of this part 
of the complaint was fair. 
Miss M didnt agree. In summary, she said:
the £100 offered wasnt enough to cover her time and trouble in dealing with this 
matter;
Barclays should have told her that it had recycled her account number and the 
general practise of recycling account numbers was unfair; 
Barclays should have told her - at the outset of the complaint, the process for 
getting her money back. Not after its investigation when it issued the final 
response to her complaint; and that 
Barclays had not confirmed if the new account holder had responded to it about 
this, so she wanted the contact details of the new account holder so she could 
follow this up.
Ultimately, the investigator didnt think this altered the outcome of the complaint. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reached the same overall conclusion to that of our investigator did for 
broadly the same reasons. I know Miss M will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Miss M has provided documents to show that the account number and sort code her relative 
used to make the payments was at some point an account in her name. And Barclays hasnt 
disputed that this account number did belong to Miss M pre 2013. But it says this account 
was closed several years.
There does seem to be a dispute about whether Miss M was aware the account had been 
closed. And around Barclays statement that the account was closed in person by Miss M 
while in branch. But I dont think how or where the account was closed makes a difference to 
the outcome of the complaint. However, Ive thought about whether Miss M was aware that 
the account had been closed.
 
Barclays has provided both the closing statement for the account ending 8988 and the 
opening statement for the new account which was opened  account number ending 9727. 
Both statements are correctly addressed. So, I think Miss M would have most likely received 
them. 
The statements show the balance in account ending 8898 was transferred to the new 
account. Had Miss M not agreed to the account closure, I would have expected her to 
contact Barclays at this point, but I havent seen anything to suggest she did. And I can see 
that Miss M actively used the new account thereafter. So, I think Miss M would have been 
aware account number 8898 had been closed and replaced by account ending 9727. 
Ive gone on to consider if Barclays did anything wrong when it recycled account ending 
8988 to a third-party. Barclays says its standard procedure for closed accounts to be 
recycled and the account number and sort code are used again. And I think thats a 
procedure its entitled to put in place as a business  and is in line with usual industry 
practice. So, this is not something this service can comment on more generally. 
I can see that Barclays waited for five years after the account had been closed before 
recycling the account details, which I think is a reasonable time frame. And I dont agree that 
Barclays was under any obligation to tell Miss M when the account number had been 
recycled when that account had been closed for five years. So, overall, I dont think Barclays 
did anything wrong when it recycled Miss Ms old account number.
Ive next considered whether Barclays did anything wrong when it accepted the payments 
made by Miss Ms relative into account 8988. Particularly because the account name didnt 
match the payees details. Under the relevant regulations that applied when the payments in 
this case were made, the sending bank has a duty to ensure that authentication methods are 
used. This means that the payer would often have to provide additional information before a 
transaction goes through. In this case, Miss Ms relatives bank wouldve been the bank that 
required the additional pieces of information when its account holder was instructing the 
payments to be made. So, I dont think that Barclays could or should have done anything 
differently here either. 
I know Miss M would like Barclays to provide her with the contact details for the third-party 
who now holds account number ending 8988. But Barclays is required to follow data 
protection rules. These regulations mean that it isnt at liberty to disclose the personal details of a payment recipient as it would fall foul of those rules. So, I dont think that Barclays has 
acted unreasonably by not disclosing the information nor can I tell it to do so. 
Barclays has provided evidence to this service which shows it took steps to contact the third-
party in order to try and recover the money. Unfortunately, this attempt appears to have 
been unsuccessful as Barclays says the third-party hasnt responded to it. But Im satisfied 
Barclays has done what it could to help Miss M in the circumstances.  
I can see that Barclays hasnt disputed that it provided Miss M with some incorrect 
information about how the funds should be recovered. And it has offered £100 in recognition 
of the inconvenience this wrong information caused. And I think that amount is fair in the 
context of that issue.
But with regard to the main thrust of Miss Ms complaint, while I recognise that she is out of 
pocket, I dont think this is a result of anything Barclays has done wrong. So, I wont be 
asking it to pay Miss M anything more.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and despite my sympathy for Miss M, its my final decision not 
to uphold this complaint  in the sense that the £100 offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC is 
fair given all the circumstances.
If it has not already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should now pay Miss £100 in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman