DRN-3936360
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined their claim for 
the loss of an awning, under their touring caravan insurance policy.
For ease Ill refer to Mr B in my decision. All references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mr B says he was clearing out his garage when he accidently disposed of the roof section of 
his caravan awning. He says he did this mistakenly thinking it was an old awning from a 
previous caravan hed owned. Mr B says hes no longer able to use the awning as its 
incomplete. So, he made a claim to Great Lakes.  
Great Lakes declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim. In its decline letter it says the policy includes 
cover for various insured perils including accidental damage. It says the awning has been 
disposed of which is not considered to be damage nor is it accidental in nature. Great Lakes 
says it considers Mr B having disposed of the awning a deliberate act. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair and complained to Great Lakes. It acknowledged his argument 
that the missing section of awning meant it was now damaged; his view that this was the 
result of an unexpected cause as he disposed of the awning roof mistakenly; as well as his 
view that the disposal wasnt deliberate but accidental. But Great Lakes didnt change its 
position. It thought its policy exclusion applied in these circumstances, as the damage was 
caused deliberately. So, it maintained its decline decision.  
Mr B disagreed with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He says Mr B didnt deliberately dispose of the awning. Because of 
this he didnt think Great Lakes was able to rely on the exclusion it had. He says it should 
reconsider Mr Bs claim. 
Great Lakes disagreed. It says its policy doesnt cover items that are carelessly disposed of. 
It says Mr B has a reasonable duty of care and disposing of the awning shows care wasnt 
taken. It also says the loss claimed isnt accidental damage and that negligence cant 
reasonably be considered an unexpected cause.  
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Let me explain. 
Its the policyholders responsibility to show that they have suffered an insured loss. If they 
can do this then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the claim unless its reasonably 
able to rely on a policy exclusion not to.  
Mr B says hes suffered a loss due to an accidental damage cause. Ive read his policy terms 
to understand what cover is provided in these circumstances. I can see the policy covers 
accidental damage. This is defined in the policy terms as:
Accidental Damage Caused suddenly and as a result of an external, visible and unexpected 
cause. 
In its decline letter Great Lakes says the awning wasnt damaged it was disposed of. When 
Mr B complained he said the dictionary definition of damage is, physical harm caused to 
something that makes it less attractive, useful or valuable. He no longer has the roof section 
of the awning. Mr B thinks this means the awning is less useful and therefore damaged 
under this definition. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has said. The policy terms dont include anything 
further to clarify what damage is. However, our service takes the view that damage, as well 
as physical damage, can also, reasonably, be interpreted as a loss of function. This means 
the item can no longer perform the task that it is supposed to. In this case the awning 
doesnt have its roof section, which means it cant perform its intended function. 
I acknowledge Great Lakes view that the manner in which the damage occurred means it 
doesnt fall within the policy definition of accidental damage. But there is a loss of function of 
the awning as a result of the unexpected cause of Mr B accidentally disposing of the roof 
section. Because of this I think Mr B has reasonably shown that he has suffered an insured 
loss under the cause of accidental damage. 
Great Lakes has also relied on a policy exclusion to decline Mr Bs claim. Under the general 
exclusions section, the policy terms say:
We will not pay for: Loss or damage caused deliberately by You or Your Immediate Family.
Great Lakes says that Mr B deliberately disposed of the roof section of the awning. I 
understand its argument here. Mr B admits he took this section of the awning to his local tip 
to be disposed of. However, importantly, it wasnt Mr Bs intention to dispose of the awning 
roof. He explains how this was a mistake as he thought he was disposing of an older awning 
from a previous caravan he had owned. 
Having considered this carefully, I dont think Mr B deliberately caused this loss. Rather this 
happened accidently. Mr B explains how he had stored the awning in a bag that had details 
of the old awning written on it. His intention was to dispose of the old awning. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Great Lakes treated Mr B fairly when declining his 
claim for the reasons it gave. It should now reconsider his claim under the remaining policy 
terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE 
should:
reconsider Mr and Mrs Bs claim under the remaining policy terms without relying on 
the exclusion for the damage having been caused deliberately.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman