DRN-2643880
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent her a loan she couldnt afford.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. 
L2G lent Mrs S a loan of £1,300 in December 2013, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan in 2013. Mrs S had another loan with L2G 
but that is being dealt with as a separate complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
L2G says it carried out checks before agreeing to lend but aside from a screenshot 
showing the agreed loan and repayment amounts, I havent seen any other 
information from L2G from the time of the loan application. L2G disagreed with the 
adjudicator saying that the credit check didnt raise any concerns and so it didnt 
need to carry out further checks but I cant see the results of a credit check for this 
loan in 2013.
From what I can see, this loan was due to be repaid over 48 monthly instalments of 
around £157, given the length of the loan commitment, I would have expected to L2G 
to ask Mrs S about her monthly income and expenses including verifying some of the 
information she provided. I cant see that it did this and so I dont think its checks 
went far enough.
Mrs S has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from L2G at the time of the loan as I 
think her bank statements provide a clear picture about her actual financial 
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, around the time L2G granted Mrs S 
this loan, she was repaying at least three other short-term lenders. Shortly before 
L2G agreed to lend to her she had taken out a loan from a short-term lender of 
around £460 which was still outstanding. Looking at the bank statements, I also cant 
see that Mrs S had an income that supports her ability to afford this loan. Overall, the 
bank statements show that Mrs S outgoings outweighed her incomings.
Sufficient checks by L2G would have shown that Mrs S couldnt afford this loan, this 
was borne out in her struggling to repay from the time the first repayment was due. In 
the circumstances, L2G lent to Mrs S when it shouldnt have, and it needs to put 
things right.   
Putting things right
The statement of account for this loan suggests that L2G waived the interest payment in 
March 2014. While I think L2G shouldnt have lent to Mrs S, I think it will be fair for her to 
repay the capital of £1,300 which she borrowed. So, to put things right, L2G should:
add up all the payments made by Mrs S, if it exceeds the capital amount of £1,300, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mrs S,
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above. 
L2G must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.   
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and order Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman