DRN-3124310
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr E payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs and Mr E have said the PPI was added without their knowledge. If that did happen, I 
would probably say that the PPI was mis-sold. However, I dont have strong enough 
evidence to uphold Mrs and Mr Es complaint on this point. 
First, this did happen over 17 years ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs and Mr E didnt 
remember the detail of everything that took  place  and that does mean it may not be fair to 
rely only on what they now remember.
And, secondly, there is at least some documentary evidence that Mrs and Mr E were made 
aware of the offer of the PPI, and that they agreed to it, even if they dont now remember it.
There is an application form for PPI, and also a direct debit agreement to pay the insurer, 
signed and dated by Mrs and Mr E. This was on the same date that they signed the 
application for the mortgage, and a separate direct debit agreement for paying the mortgage 
to Lloyds. 
So I think its likely Lloyds did seek Mrs and Mr Es agreement to the PPI, even if they dont 
now remember that so many years later. 
Mrs and Mr E have queried why the PPI direct debit form was signed so long before the 
mortgage started  the form was signed in August, but the mortgage started in November. I 
dont, however, find this surprising or suspicious. As I say, Mrs and Mr E signed the PPI form 
on the same day that they signed the mortgage application form  these two things would 
often have been applied for in the same meeting. And I can see it wasnt until October that 
the loan agreement was actually signed. And these timescales do reflect the often drawn out 
process of getting a mortgage and buying a house. 
Mrs and Mr E say they would have made a claim on the PPI in 2008, when Mr E was made 
redundant, if theyd been made aware of the PPI. I agree that, if Mrs and Mr E are 
remembering the details correctly, this suggests they werent aware of the PPI in 2008. But 
this doesnt mean they werent aware of it originally  and, as Ive said, the documents 
suggest they were aware of it at the time of applying for the mortgage. 
Also Lloyds says that, according to its records, Mrs and Mr E cancelled the PPI in 2007. So, 
if thats accurate, that could be the reason they didnt make a claim in 2008.  
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. Ill explain this.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr E, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Es circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would 
have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Es situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr E (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed, whilst the policy lasted. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr E received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr E would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other continuing living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr E in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to Mr E 
being long-term sick or unemployed. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr E couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr E would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr E to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs and Mr E took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman