DRN-4255773
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted unfairly in not upholding his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to a timeshare product he purchased 
using his credit card.   
What happened
In or around January 2015, Mr P was staying at a holiday resort outside of the UK. The 
holiday had been booked as part of an exchange arrangement provided under an existing 
timeshare membership held by Mr P. During his stay, he received a call from a 
representative of another timeshare supplier (who Ill refer to as A) inviting him to attend a 
meeting. Mr P agreed to meet.
During that meeting, Mr P says A discussed his existing timeshare and exchange 
arrangements to establish whether he was happy with the service and product he held. Mr P 
says he told A that whilst he was happy with his existing timeshare provider, he wasnt 
happy with the ease of booking exchanges under that timeshare membership.
Mr P says A explained they were currently changing their own exchange provider and asked 
if hed consider buying one of their timeshare products. But he told A he couldnt afford two 
timeshares. Mr P says A offered to arrange for his existing timeshare product to be 
terminated in exchange for a timeshare membership with them at a cost of £14,875. But Mr 
P thought this was too expensive. He says A offered to reduce the price by £2,000 if he 
agreed to rent out any associated apartments under a new membership with them in 2016 
and 2017. In exchange, Mr P had the option to purchase a voucher for £950 giving him 
access for one year to use towards a holiday. In the event they couldnt terminate his 
existing timeshare, A confirmed they would terminate the new timeshare contract purchased 
from them.
Mr P agreed to purchase the timeshare product from A on the basis agreed at a cost of 
£12,875. He paid £3,875 using his credit card with TSB with the balance to be funded under 
a separate loan agreement with another business. Having completed the purchase, Mr P 
received confirmation his previous timeshare had been cancelled and he subsequently 
received rent for 2016 and 2017, as agreed. This was offset against his maintenance fees 
liabilities under the new timeshare membership with A.
In 2018, Mr P says he asked A to rent out his timeshare week for 2020. But A werent able to 
do that as they already had all the apartments they required available for rent.
In or around March 2019, Mr P met with A again and asked them to put his timeshare up for 
sale once the five-year anniversary was reached in January 2020. A sale listing agreement 
was completed in March 2019. But Mr P received no updates after that. However, in May 
2020, it was announced that A had entered liquidation.
In or around July 2020, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr P submitted a 
claim to TSB under section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The PR 
said that A were now in liquidation and arent able to provide the service sold. As a result, 
the PR believes this constitutes a breach of contract. Further, the PR said A had made a 
number of promises to Mr P about the product purchased which turned out not to be true. In 
particular, the PR said:
the timeshare contract would only last for five years and would then be sold at market 
value;
the product was represented as an investment, which is in breach of the Timeshare, 
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contract Regulations 2010 (the TR); and
there would be no issues renting out Mr Ps timeshare.
In addition, the PR allege that A told Mr P that the product would be available at the price 
agreed only on that day, in breach of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations (CPUT). And in his own statement, Mr P states he was pressured into 
completing the purchase and felt very uncomfortable in doing so.
TSB didnt provide a substantive response to Mr Ps claim here, despite various written 
exchanges between them and the PR. So, the PR referred Mr Ps complaint to this service. 
One of investigators looked into the circumstances and evidence available for Mr Ps 
complaint. During the course of that investigation, TSB provided a summary of what had 
happened while they considered Mr Ps claim. They said that as they hadnt been provided 
with any supporting evidence, theyd asked the PR to provide further information and 
evidence so they could consider Mr Ps claim further. But not all the information was 
received, despite various chasers and exchanges. 
TSB identified that payments made by Mr P, using his credit card, were to a third-party 
company  not to A. And because of that, they said they werent able to establish whether 
the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier1 (DCS) arrangement existed in order that Mr P could 
make a valid claim. Despite requests, TSB said they havent received the necessary 
evidence from the PR to clearly establish the DCS arrangement. So, werent able to 
progress his claim further.
Our investigator thought there was sufficient evidence to suggest the necessary DCS 
arrangement was in place to support Mr Ps S75 claim. And having considered all the 
circumstances, our investigator thought the main reason for Mr Ps purchase was because 
he was led to believe he would have a good value product which he could sell in the future. 
Because our investigator thought Mr Ps recollections were plausible, they thought A had 
misrepresented the timeshare product to him. And as a consequence, thought TSB hadnt 
properly assessed his claim under S75.
Our investigator thought TSB should reimburse Mr P for the amount(s) paid using his credit 
card with them, together with any interest charged, adding to that 8% simple interest per 
year. They also thought TSB should refund all loan payments made by Mr P together with 
8% simple interest each year, subject to evidence being provided that any claim against the 
loan provider had been unsuccessful. 
Finally, our investigator thought TSB should reimburse Mr P for any maintenance fees paid 
under the timeshare agreement for the years the timeshare product wasnt used (subject to 
evidence being provided) together with 8% simple interest each year.
The PR confirmed that Mr P accepted out investigators findings. TSB asked for additional 
time to consider the claim further with reference to their legal team. But to date, have not 
provided their response or any additional information.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, I reached a different 
outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 
21 June 2023  giving the PR, Mr P and TSB the opportunity to respond to my findings 
before I reached a final decision.
1 Under section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit, 
subject to the necessary DCS arrangement being in place. Mr P paid £3,875 for the 
timeshare product with a credit card issued by TSB, so it appears that S75 could 
apply here, provided the necessary DCS arrangement can be established. This 
means that Mr P would be afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under 
those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding 
whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe TSBs treatment of Mr Ps 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While 
the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, 
we do not provide a legal service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Misrepresentation
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product in 
2015. In other words, that they told Mr P something that wasnt true in relation to one 
or more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr P to enter the contract. This means I 
would need to be persuaded that Mr P reasonably relied on those false statements 
when deciding to buy the timeshare membership.
The Membership Application Agreement, signed by Mr P, refers to the [] 
Application for Membership which shall be valid from the date of payment of 
Membership Application Fee until the year 2045 []. Note 3 of the Statement of 
Compliance says, Membership expires on 31st December 2045. This document was 
also signed by Mr P, and it appears he initialled next to this note. So, in the absence 
of any other corroborating evidence from the time of the sale, I cant reasonably 
conclude that Mr P was told that the contract would only last for five years.
Note 8 of the Statement of compliance says, We understand that the [A] Resale 
facility will be available with effect from the year 2020. We also have been advised 
that should we wish to initiate the process to exit our Membership through the [A] 
Resale facility, we would first need to enter into a Listing Agreement. We have not 
been given any resale timeframe guarantees since finding a new buyer depends on 
market conditions and could potentially take one or more years. Furthermore, the 
future value of the Club Membership cannot be guaranteed []. So, it appears that while Mr P could choose to sell his membership after 5 years, no 
assurances were given by A as to how long that would take and what level of 
proceeds could reasonably be achieved relative to his initial outlay or the market 
price of his membership at that time.
The PR believe that the ability to sell the membership at market value, in their view, 
amounted to the marketing or selling of the timeshare contract as an investment, 
contrary to Regulation 14 of the TR. However, the contract cant have been marketed 
and sold as an investment contrary to the TR simply because there might have been 
some inherent value to Mr Ps membership. A would had to have presented the 
membership in such a way that used its investment element to persuade Mr P to 
contract. Only then would it have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and 
selling certain holiday products as an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3).
So, Im not persuaded by the PRs submissions on this particular point. But as one of 
the benefits was Mr Ps ability to potentially rent his membership, Ive considered the 
PRs suggestion more broadly given this complaints circumstances. And having 
done that, I still dont think the product was likely to have been marketed and sold as 
an investment. 
I say this because there is evidence that A made efforts to avoid giving consumers 
the impression that this type of timeshare membership was a financial investment. 
There was, for example, a clear disclaimer within the Statement of Compliance. At 
point 6, it says, The primary purpose of our Membership is to access holiday 
accommodation and is not a financial investment for a return. And as Ive already 
stated, this document not only appears to have been signed by Mr P, but he also 
appears to have initialled next to that point. 
With this in mind, Ive found no evidence that any rental element of the membership 
contract was actively marketed by A as a benefit to Mr P. Instead, beyond the initial 
two years, it relied upon Mr P proactively requesting that his membership week be 
rented. This is supported by the fact that Mr P made such a request in 2018. It 
doesnt appear this was proactively offered by A. More importantly, nowhere in Mr 
Ps testimony does he say that the membership was marketed and sold to him as an 
investment. And I find that difficult to explain if, in fact, it was.
Mr P says that he told A that the previous timeshare product hed held with another 
supplier had no end date. And given that the product he purchased from A included 
the ability to put his membership up for sale after five years, I can understand why 
this might have been attractive to him. But as Ive explained, Ive found no evidence 
that this was marketed to him in such a way to constitute an investment under 
section 14(3) of the TR.
On a final note, Ive found no evidence to support the allegation that A told Mr P there 
wouldnt be any issue with renting his timeshare membership week if he required. 
While the ability to do so may have been a feature, there doesnt appear to have 
been any guarantee that this could be achieved.
The allegations of pressure
The PRs letter of claim alleges that A used aggressive commercial practices and Mr 
A was pressured into entering the agreement. I acknowledge what Mr P says in his 
testimony about the length of the sales presentation he attended. So, I can 
understand why its argued that the prolonged nature of the presentation might have 
felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as they approached the closing stages, he 
was going to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an 
offer that may not have been available at a later date.However, against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly 
understood, I find it hard to argue that Mr P agreed to the purchase at the time of the 
sale when he simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that 
he went on to say something to A, after the purchase, to suggest hed agreed to it 
when he didnt want to. And as he hasnt provided a credible explanation for why he 
didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period 
permitted, if he only agreed to the purchase because he was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr P was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr P made the decision to proceed because his ability to exercise 
choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to 
Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
Breach of Contract
The only contractual documentation Ive seen so far is Mr Ps Membership 
Application Agreement, together with its terms and conditions, a Withdrawal Form 
and the Statement of Compliance  all from January 2015. The Membership 
Application details a week in two specified apartments at a named resort. The 
agreement is between Mr P and A, a company that the agreement described as the 
operator of the agreement of the holiday rights that were sold. 
The Letter of Claim said that A was in liquidation and couldnt provide the service it 
sold to Mr P. So, as far as he and the PR were and are concerned, thered been a 
breach of contract. Ive seen a letter from the liquidator appointed which was sent to 
all club members  including Mr P. It confirms a new club manager had been 
appointed and, as a result, the Clubs would continue to operate for the benefit of 
members. The letter also included contact details for the new club manager. So, 
assuming Mr P is still able to access the benefits afforded to him under his timeshare 
contract, and Ive seen nothing to suggest he cant, I cant reasonably say hes 
suffered any loss here.
Ive seen the original confirmation from A that Mr Ps timeshare agreement had been 
listed for resale following his request in 2019. It confirms, [] there is no timeframe 
or amount being guaranteed. However, very little else appears to have been said 
and/or provided in relation to this allegation. So, as things currently stand, I dont 
know what Mr Ps current position is under the Purchase Agreement or the Resale 
Listing Agreement. And without knowing (1) what rights and obligations have been 
assigned to another business since As liquidation (if any) and (2) what specific rights 
Mr P thinks he has lost; I cant say that Mr A has suffered a loss that TSB is likely to 
be jointly liable for.
Was the right arrangement in place? 
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to a claim under that provision. 
As it appears that payments under the purchase agreement were made to a third 
party rather than to A directly, its possible that there was no such agreement in 
place. Particularly following a very recent High Court judgment in the case of Steiner 
v National Westminster Bank PLC [2022]. 
However, as I understand it, the claimant there sought permission to appeal that 
decision. And, in any event, given the overall outcome Ive reached, I dont think its 
necessary to make a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for 
the purpose of this decision because I dont currently think the complaint should 
succeed under S75.Summary
I acknowledge that TSB dont appear to have provided Mr P with an outcome for his 
claim under S75. However, it seems they were awaiting additional information from 
the PR which has yet to be received. So, with that in mind, and having considered all 
the information available, Ive thought carefully about whether TSB s handling of Mr 
Ps claim was unfair or unreasonable.
In doing so, I also carefully considered the allegations presented together with any 
corroborating evidence provided. And while I appreciate that Mr P will be 
disappointed, I havent found anything that persuades me that TSB need to do 
anything more at the moment. But I will reconsider that should any further relevant 
information and evidence be forthcoming.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB acknowledged receipt of my PD and confirmed they had no further comments.
The PR didnt accept my provisional findings and raised various points to support their 
arguments. In particular they said:
Mr P is fully aware the timeshare was for a longer period but was assured that there 
would be a guaranteed exit after 5 years which supported his stated needs to exit 
the product after that period;
The closure of [As] re-sale scheme cannot be disregarded and can be no clearer 
example of breach of contract;
my PD disregarded findings and comments made by the investigator in their original 
view; in particular relating to the ease at which timeshares provided by A can be 
resold;
a timeshare product subsequently offered as an upgrade to Mr P was marketed on 
the basis there was no resale market, so was the only way to protect his investment;
my PD failed to consider the evidence and testimonies of numerous other 
complainants relating to products sold by A;
the liquidators for A confirmed that the resale programme has been discontinued with 
no obligation by the subsequent management company to reinstate it.
I think its important I reiterate that Ive found no evidence that A provided any guarantee, 
written or otherwise, that Mr P would be able to successfully exit his timeshare after five 
years. Only, that he could seek to exit it after five years  an option being to list it for sale 
under As resale facility.
One of the key questions here is whether A were contractually obliged to provide a resale 
programme enabling Mr P to sell his timeshare product after five years. Ive carefully 
considered the copy of the Membership Application Agreement Terms and Conditions 
provided in Mr Ps case. Having done so, Ive not found anything which contractually obliged 
A to provide a resale service. 
However, as I said in my PD, the Statement of Compliance does reference the resale facility 
under note 8. But this doesnt appear to form part of the main contract itself or place an 
obligation upon A to provide it. I acknowledge that it does say that the facility will be 
available with effect from the year 2020. And as I said in my PD, it seems A accepted Mr Ps 
completed resale listing agreement in March 2019 ahead of the 5th anniversary of his timeshare agreement. So, it would appear A did agree to provide Mr P access to their resale 
service under his completed listing agreement.
The next question is whether the subsequent closure of the resale programme constitutes a 
breach of contract. I havent been provided with a specific copy of the listing agreement 
completed in Mr Ps case. However, he has provided a copy of a listing agreement template 
given to him by A in 2015, when he first agreed to purchase the timeshare from A. Section 
6.2 says This Agreement shall be valid until: (i) the Option [for A to purchase the timeshare] 
is exercised by [A]; (ii) the Option lapse of the Option Period; or (iii) until this Agreement is 
otherwise terminated. 
It seems the resale listing agreement was terminated upon appointment of the liquidators of 
A. The agreement appears to contain no contractual minimum term or guaranteed listing 
period. So, it would seem its eventual termination fell under part (iii) of the aforementioned 
section.
If I were to find that As failure to continue providing the resale programme constituted a 
breach of contract  and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that a 
successful sale wouldve been achieved in order to uphold Mr Ps complaint here. But Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest a successful sale was missed out on or wouldve been 
achieved had Mr Ps listing continued. And because of that, I cant reasonably conclude 
there would be an entitlement for damages as a consequence. 
The PR believe Ive failed to consider the circumstances and evidence of other similar 
complaints involving A as a timeshare provider. In reaching my decision, I can only consider 
the evidence available which relates specifically to Mr Ps own situation and circumstances. 
Thats what Ive done here. And while I acknowledge there may have been other similar 
complaints, I cant consider the individual circumstances of those within the context of Mr Ps 
complaint here. Ultimately, I dont think they provide much help in terms of making factual 
findings in Mr Ps case.
Having thought very carefully about everything thats been said and provided, Im not 
persuaded to vary from the findings in my PD. And because of that, I wont be asking TSB to 
do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman