DRN-1822692
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 1992, Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy in a Halifax branch when they were applying for 
a mortgage. The policy protected their mortgage repayments for up to twelve months if Mr B 
was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint for reasons that Ill explain. 
Mr and Mrs B say that it wasnt made clear to them at the time of that the PPI was optional, 
and separate from the mortgage they were taking out. But I need to bear in mind that this 
sale took place a very long time ago and memories of such meetings do tend to fade with 
time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that BoS didnt make it clear that 
Mr and Mrs B could choose not to take the PPI based only on what they recall happening 
now. I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened based on all the 
information now available to me.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application. Theres a section on this 
dealing with PPI. And I can see that £1,000 RB has been handwritten in the box next to the 
words: If you wish to join the scheme enter the amount of monthly benefit you require.
BoS has also provided a copy of the PPI application form which Mr B completed and signed. 
This is separate to the mortgage application which Mr and Mrs B completed. 
So, from what Ive seen - together with what we know more generally about how BoS 
normally sold these policies - I think its likely that BoS did make it clear that the policy was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs B actively decided to take it. But I can understand why they 
might not remember this now.
BoS says this was an advised PPI sale and I think this is likely to have been the case. This 
means that BoS needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. I cant 
now know what steps it took to ensure this was the case. But from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
Mr B appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt need the PPI cover because Mr B had good employee 
benefits and they also had some savings. But they chose to take out the PPI, so it seems 
that they valued the sort of protection it gave them. And this policy would have paid out 
in addition to their other means, allowing these to be used for other things. It would have 
provided up to twelve months cover if Mr B was unable to work, and a mortgage is a big 
financial commitment  one where ones home is potentially at risk if the repayments 
arent kept up. So I still think they would have valued the extra security which the policy 
gave them. 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B. And as the policys 
premiums were paid monthly, they could have cancelled it if it no longer met their needs.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them, BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs B 
clear enough information about the PPI for them to decide if they wanted it. I think its 
possible that the information wasnt as good as it should have been. But for much the same 
reasons that I didnt think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think better information would 
have changed their minds about taking it. I think theyd still have thought it gave them useful 
cover at an affordable cost.
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of anything BoS 
may have done wrong when it sold them this PPI policy. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B have said about why they still think the PPI was mis-
sold. But this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding their complaint.
This means that BoS doesnt have to compensate Mr and Mrs B for all of the cost of the PPI. 
But BoS does have to compensate Mr and Mrs B for some of the cost of the PPI because:
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, BoS has offered to compensate Mr B for the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman