DRN-4354285
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa). 
What happened
In November 2022, Mrs M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Zopa. The car was about five years and eight months old and had travelled 99,675 miles 
when it was supplied to her. The cash price of the car was £15,390. Mrs M paid a deposit of 
£500, so the total amount financed on the agreement was £14,890 payable over 60 months.
Mrs M said that soon after acquiring the car she noticed a number of issues with it which 
included a chipped windscreen, missing air vents, a faulty braking system, display and 
AdBlue issues. 
Mrs M said she complained about the issues and was told the car would be repaired. 
However, she said it hadnt been done and so had lost out financially as a result. 
An independent inspection report concluded the car wasnt faulty at the point of supply. 
However, Mrs M said shes had to pay for diagnostics, to have the braking system and 
AdBlue issue repaired and have taken time off work to sort the issues out. She said she was 
told the dealership would pay for some of the costs, however, she didnt receive an invoice 
because the repairs were paid for in cash. Mrs M says shes been affected mentally and 
physically due to the stress involved, and that shed like to reject the car and for the 
agreement to be ended.
In June 2023 Zopa issued their final response. They didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Zopa 
confirmed Mrs M complained to them in May 2023 and explained that an independent 
inspection report was carried out in April 2023 which confirmed the AdBlue tank had failed. 
However, it also concluded that due to the usage and mileage since supply it was unlikely 
the faults were developing at the point of sale. Zopa also said that theyd not received 
confirmation that the dealership was intending to cover half the costs of repair and that they 
would need a copy of invoice for repairs, so they werent able to make a claim for the repair 
costs without it.
Unhappy with their decision, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having reviewed all the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. The investigator recommended that Zopa should pay Mrs M 
£200 in compensation for the travel and fuel to the dealership, pay half the cost of repair to 
the AdBlue system on production of a receipt and to refund the cost of her hotel stay when 
she had to bring the car to the dealership, on production of a receipt.
In July 2023 Mrs M contacted the investigator to say the dealership agreed to facilitate a 
voluntary surrender of the car. The car was collected by the dealership to be sold. However, 
the outstanding costs would be dependent on the sale of the car which Mrs M was yet to be 
informed of.
In August 2023 Zopa responded to the investigators view and provided some further 
information. Zopa said they believed Mrs M had the opportunity to reject the car when the 
initial issues with the windscreen and air vents were reported. Zopa also advised that Mrs M 
had the repairs carried out by a third-party garage, which the dealer agreed to contribute 
£200 towards. Zopa said the issue with the AdBlue wasnt reported until March 2023 and so 
they stand by the findings of the independent inspection report. 
Zopa also disagreed that Mrs M needed to stay in a hotel as the dealership confirmed to 
them the repairs took only a few hours. Zopa also confirmed the car was collected as part of 
a voluntary surrender and sold for £11,650 which was applied to the agreement balance on 
24 July 2023 leaving a balance of £1,887 for Mrs M to repay.
In consideration of the new information and change in circumstances since his initial view, 
the investigator issued a second view where he concluded that Zopa should still pay £200 
compensation for fuel costs and for the inconvenience of having to drive the car a significant 
distance for the initial repairs. He also recommended Zopa pay for the hotel costs on proof of 
payment.
Zopa didnt accept our investigators second view and asked that the case be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mrs Ms complaint about 
Zopa. Zopa is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement, and is responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. My starting point is that Zopa supplied Mrs M with a used car that had travelled 99,675 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage which may impact its overall quality and reliability, so 
thered be an increased likelihood of unforeseen problems surfacing sooner than in a new 
vehicle. 
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault with the car. This is apparent 
from the diagnostic invoice provided by Mrs M dated 1 March 2023 and the independent 
inspection report, dated 25 April 2023 which both confirm an issue with the AdBlue tank. Im 
also persuaded the car had issues relating to the windscreen, air vents brakes and tyres as 
Zopa has confirmed this to be the case and the vehicle health check confirms some of those 
issues also.
Having considered the car had a fault, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality 
at the time of supply. 
Mrs M provided a copy of an email she sent to the broker advising she noticed soon after 
acquiring the car, when she got home, that the windscreen was chipped, the rear air vents 
were missing, and the braking was slow to respond. Mrs M said she was told to take the car 
to the dealership for repairs. Mrs M confirmed the repairs were carried out around 28 
November 2022. Having considered the distance of the dealership to Mrs Ms home, I can 
see its around 200 miles in one direction.
Although Ive seen no evidence of the issues or repairs that had taken place, Im satisfied 
they were carried out as described by Mrs M. Zopa has also confirmed this is not in dispute.
In consideration Mrs M acquired the car in November and it was repaired the same month, 
on this basis Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
However, Im satisfied under the CRA that the dealership acted fairly in repairing the issues 
reported within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mrs M said she reported issues with the display in January 2023, she also said this is when 
she noticed the warning light advising of an incorrect AdBlue level. Mrs M said the warning 
light was intermittent as was the problem with the display. Mrs M says the car went into the 
dealership for repairs between 9 and 11 February 2023 but was told there were no problems 
with the car when it was returned.
Having considered the circumstances surrounding these issues, I dont think they 
demonstrate the car was of unsatisfactory quality. Although they were reported within the 
first six months of supply, in consideration the car had travelled over 99,000 miles at the 
point it was supplied to Mrs M, I dont think its unreasonable that thered be issues arising 
which require maintenance or repair. I think this expectation is reflected in the price of 
purchase which is significantly lower than it would be if the car was brand new.
Ive also considered that Mrs M was able to travel a further 6,000 miles since being supplied 
the car, which in the circumstances I wouldnt consider to be an insignificant amount. In 
addition, the independent inspection report confirms an issue with the AdBlue tank, however 
it also adds that due to the length of time the car has been in use it wouldnt have been 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Having said that, Ive given thought to whether Mrs M was treated fairly throughout. I 
acknowledge the car has been voluntarily surrendered, and I think in the circumstances this 
was a preferable outcome for Mrs M. I say this because in comparison to other options, for 
example voluntary termination, surrendering the car in similar circumstances where the ownership has been for less than half the term of the agreement, voluntary surrender tends 
to have less of a financial impact. So, Im satisfied this was a fair option and outcome for Mrs 
M.
However, having considered the impact this situation has had on Mrs M, for example having 
to travel back and forth with round trips being in the region of 400 miles, particularly for 
issues which shouldnt have been present, Im in agreement with the investigator that £200 
fairly recognises the costs and inconvenience Mrs M would have endured bringing her car to 
be repaired.
Ive also thought about the hotel costs Mrs M said she incurred. I acknowledge Zopa have 
said the repairs lasted a few hours, however Ive thought about whether it was reasonable to 
expect Mrs M to have to travel around 200 miles, wait a few hours for a repair and then have 
to travel a further 200 miles back home in the same day. In the circumstances I dont think 
its unreasonable that Mrs M would have chosen to stay in a hotel. 
Mrs M confirmed to us that the hotel costs were around £200 - £300 for a three-night stay. I 
dont think this is an unreasonable cost. So, I think its fair that the hotel stay for one night is 
reimbursed to Mrs M upon proof of payment. I Acknowledge Mrs M says she paid cash and 
so had no receipt; however, I think its reasonable to ask that Mrs M provide some 
confirmation of her stay, for example with an email confirmation from the hotel, or 
correspondence from them confirming the rate and date of stay.
I acknowledge the difference of opinions that both parties have shared with our investigator, 
and in particular Im sorry to learn of the personal difficulties Mrs M said shed experienced 
as a result of this situation. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Zopa Bank Limited to:
Pay Mrs M £200 in compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused by 
having to take the car a significant distance for repair to the windscreen and air 
vents soon after supply
Reimburse to Mrs M the cost of the hotel stay for one night, upon confirmation or 
proof from Mrs M of the stay (as explained in my decision), related to the 
windscreen and air vent work repairs 
Zopa Bank Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all reimbursements calculated 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Zopa Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman