DRN-2878729
The complaint
Miss P complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (HSL) has treated her unfairly. She 
says it recorded arrears on her student loan account which only arose due to delays by HM 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) in processing her self-assessment tax return. And this 
resulted in her deferment application being delayed.
What happened
Miss P tells us that she took out a student loan. But that repayments have been deferred due 
to her income level. In 2019 she was due to submit a further application for renewal of the 
deferment to be effective from April 2019.  But she says that due to delays by HMRC in 
processing her self-assessment tax return she wasnt able to provide all the information. As 
a result several months arrears have accumulated.
HSL explained that it only administered the account. And that it wasnt responsible for 
decisions on deferment. Or deciding if sufficient information had been provided. It explained 
that Miss Ps application for deferment had later been accepted with effect from October 
2019. And that three months backdating had been applied leaving four months of arrears 
totalling £546.56. It said that it would review Miss Ps arrears if it was provided with 
documentation about the exceptional circumstances to which Miss P had referred. 
Our investigator didnt think that HSL had done anything wrong. He said that it had offered to 
review Miss Ps arrears. And consider if it was able to reduce or remove them if it received a 
letter from HMRC confirming that issues experienced by Miss P in relation to her tax return 
were beyond her control. He thought this was fair and reasonable.
Miss P asked for an ombudsman to decide upon her complaint. And asked if the service 
could override the decision on her arrears. And approach HMRC on her behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ps complaint is that due to delays in processing her tax return she couldnt provide all 
the information that was required to process her application for deferment of repayments of 
her student loan. And she doesnt think that HSL has taken this into account when recoding 
her account as in arrears.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I empathise with Miss P and the situation in which she finds herself. And I understand her 
concern and frustration at accumulating arrears as a result of circumstances that she feels 
were outside her control.
Having said this, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
HSL is responsible for the administration of Miss Ps account. But its not responsible for the 
decisions about deferment. Thats the responsibility of another company, The Student Loan 
Company (SLC). So any arrears accruing from the account not being in deferment would not 
be a decision that HSL has made. In recording the arrears for the period that the account 
was not in deferment I cant see that HSL has done anything wrong.
Miss P places the main responsibility for her being unable to supply the required information 
upon HMRC. And says that it was responsible for delaying the processing of her self-
assessment tax return. Im afraid that this service cannot comment upon the actions of 
HMRC or consider a complaint about that agency.
As HSL has agreed to review her arrears upon receipt of information supporting the 
circumstances which Miss P has described, I think its acted fairly. And its explained that 
whilst the arrears remain payable, shes under no obligation to make repayment whilst the 
account is in deferment. But that this might affect her right to have the debt cancelled.
Im also unable to provide Miss P with the advice she sought. This service has to remain 
impartial. And it wouldnt be able to pro-actively engage in negotiations on her behalf with 
HMRC. But from what Ive seen our investigator did pass on the details of voluntary 
organisations that might be able to assist her. As well as information about how Miss P might 
complain directly to HMRC.
I recognise Miss Ps sense of frustration. But I dont feel that HSL has done anything wrong 
here. And by offering to review the circumstances in which Miss Ps deferment wasnt 
processed I think its acted fairly. Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman