DRN-3946490
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont refund her after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In 2022, Mrs C and her husband were looking for flights to the Seychelles. Mrs C says her 
husband found the airfares after searching online and communicated with a person Ill refer 
to as A, via Whatsapp. Mrs C and her husband agreed to purchase two tickets, one ticket 
each, which they paid for separately.
Mrs C paid £601 for her ticket from her Barclays account on 14 April 2022. Mrs C says when 
they received the booking confirmation, they contacted the airline and were told that the 
ticket confirmation was fake.
Mrs C raised a fraud claim with Barclays and asked them to refund her. Barclays declined to 
refund Mrs C and told her that no funds were recovered from the beneficiary bank.
 
As Mrs C wasnt happy with Barclays response, she brought a complaint to our service.
While the complaint was with our service, Barclays changed their position and accepted 
partial liability - offering to refund Mrs C 50% of the payment. 
An investigator looked into Mrs Cs complaint and upheld it, saying what Barclays had 
offered was fair. The investigator explained that as Mrs C hadnt done any checks on A 
before making the payment, they felt it was fair for her to share liability with Barclays for her 
loss.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances.
 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case Barclays say Mrs C made the payment without having 
a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting 
to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having carefully considered everything that Mrs C has told us, Im not satisfied that she had 
a reasonable basis for believing that A was legitimate, for the following reasons:
Mrs C says they had been looking for tickets and gone to some bigger travel agents 
but found the tickets too expensive. She says the tickets A was offering were cheap 
and its not clear what questions were asked or what checks she did to reassure 
herself that the ticket price wasnt too good to be true based on the prices they had 
been quoted up to that point in time. 
Mrs C says they later purchased genuine tickets that were cheaper, however its 
clear from the call with our investigator that Mrs C and her husband thought the 
tickets A was offering were cheap.
Its not clear what if any checks Mrs C did on A before making the payment for the 
tickets. She says they googled A based on his first name, which didnt provide any 
results. Also, that A worked for a company she had heard of before and that they 
googled that company. However, she doesnt remember which company A said he 
worked for, and its not referenced in any of the evidence weve been given. There is 
also no indication that Mrs C did any checks to ensure A genuinely worked for the 
company he said he worked for. 
Weve only been given one screen shot of the Whatsapp communication between 
Mrs C or her husband and A. This appears to be in the middle of the conversation so 
doesnt show what questions were asked prior to Mrs C making the payment or 
whether Mrs C was given an invoice by A - which I would expect if he worked for a 
company.
Mrs C was asked to make her payment to an account held in a personal name, not in 
a company name. Also, the name on the account was different to As name. Its not 
clear what questions if any Mrs C asked about why she was being asked to pay 
funds to a bank account held in an unrelated name. If A worked for a company, I 
would expect the payment to have been made to a business account.
Taking all of these points into consideration as a whole, rather than on an individual basis, I 
think Mrs C shouldve had concerns about the legitimacy of A. Mrs C says she googled A 
based on his first name only, however Im not satisfied that is enough in these 
circumstances. So I agree that Barclays can fairly apply an exception to reimbursement 
under the CRM Code.
Barclays have accepted shared liability for Mrs Cs loss and offered to refund 50% of the 
payment. This offer is more than I wouldve recommended. I say this because Im not 
satisfied that Barclays were required to give an effective warning under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model based on the amount of the payment. And, as explained above, Im 
satisfied that Barclays could rely on the exception to reimbursement. Because of this, I 
wouldnt have recommended they refund Mrs C any of the funds she lost. However, as they 
have already made this offer which has been put to Mrs C, I would expect them to honour it. 
It is now for Mrs C to accept it if she wants to.
I realise that Mrs C is going to be very disappointed but being the victim of a scam doesnt 
always mean that the bank is liable to fully reimburse her. For the reasons Ive given above, I 
wont be asking Barclays to refund anything more than theyve already offered.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK Plc should refund Mrs C the 50% theyve offered in 
resolution of her complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and require Barclays to compensate 
Mrs C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman