The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Investor Compensation (UK) Ltd are charging her for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim that was cancelled in 2014. 
What happened
In August 2014 Ms H instructed Investor Compensation to make a PPI claim against Lender 
B. In October 2014, Lender B told Investor Compensation that Ms H had never had PPI, so
no further action was taken on the claim. But in March 2019, Lender B said theyd made a
mistake in 2014, that Ms H had had PPI, and that they would look into her claim. The claim
was successful and Investor Compensation invoiced Ms H for their fee.
Ms H has complained that Investor Compensation isnt due a fee because the claim was 
cancelled in 2014. Shes also complained that the claim was only successful because she 
dealt with Lender B herself, that Investor Compensations fee is too high, and that theyve 
harassed her for payment.
Our investigator found that Investor Compensation had acted reasonably. He felt theyd 
done the work they were instructed to do in 2014, and it was only because of an error by 
Lender B that meant the claim hadnt been successful at that time  Ms H shouldve received 
her compensation, and Investor Compensation shouldve charged their fee, in 2014. While 
Ms H had dealt with Lender B in 2019, he didnt think this meant Investor Compensations 
fee wasnt due, so he didnt think they should reduce or waive this.
Ms H didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said she was told in 2014 that the contract was 
cancelled, but she finds it strange Investor Compensation cant provide a recording of this 
call. Shes also said that, if the contract hadnt been cancelled, then Investor Compensation 
shouldve been chasing Lender B for 5 years and not just waiting for them to get in touch. 
Because of this, and because it was Lender B who made the error, she feels that if she has 
to pay something then paying 50% of the invoice would be fairer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive seen that, when Ms H instructed Investor Compensation in 2014, she agreed to their fee 
of 30% plus VAT of the settlement amount. The terms and conditions she agreed to define 
settlement amount as the amount of compensation received before any tax was deducted  
the gross compensation. The terms and conditions also confirmed:
DRN-1084767If you at any time independently accept or receive a Settlement Amount based on a Claim 
made by Us to the Bank, whether or not the Agreement has terminated, You will be liable to 
pay such proportion of our Fee as reflects the work we have undertaken.
Investor compensation submitted the claim in 2014 and Lender B said Ms H didnt have any 
PPI. Because of this, the claim couldnt progress.
But Lender B wrote to Ms H on 12 March 2019 to tell her theyd made an error in 2014, and 
that they were now looking at her claim. In this letter they also told her that Investor 
Compensation originally represented her in her claim and that she may wish to check any 
obligations you may have with [them]. Finally, Lender B asked Ms H to complete a 
questionnaire with the information they needed to be able to complete their investigation.
Lender B wrote to Ms H again on 24 April, telling her that her claim had been successful. 
They again reminded her that she may have an obligation with Investor Compensation. 
Lender B also sent copies of both of these letters to Investor Compensation.
The claim Lender B looked into in 2019 was the same claim that Investor Compensation 
submitted for Ms H in 2014. It was not a new complaint. Lender B asked Ms H to complete a 
questionnaire so they could fully consider the claim, and this is the same process they 
shouldve followed in 2014. In 2014 I wouldve expected Lender B to have contacted Investor 
Compensation about this questionnaire, but I can see why they didnt do this in 2019  they 
couldnt be sure that Investor Compensation was still a regulated claims management 
company who were able to deal with the claim (which they were).
Because Lender B asked her to complete the questionnaire, I appreciate that Ms H feels she 
did the work for this claim herself. But if Lender B hadnt made the error initially, she would 
still have had to provide this information in 2014, albeit she would have given this to Investor 
Compensation who wouldve passed the information on to Lender B. Because of this I cant 
say that Ms H had to do something more than she wouldve had to do in 2014, so I cant say 
that Investor Compensations fee isnt due.
Ive seen that Ms H has been charged a fee in line with the terms and conditions she agreed 
to  30% plus VAT of the gross compensation she was awarded. This is also what she 
wouldve been charged in 2014 had Lender B not made an error. So I cant agree their fee is 
too high.
Ms H has also complained about Investor Compensations attempts to recover their fee. Its 
clear she disputed the fee, and refused to pay it. So I accept she would find any attempts to 
collect the fee unwanted and unacceptable. But Im satisfied Investor Compensation are 
entitled to charge their fee, so theyre entitled to attempt to collect them.
Ms H says that Investor Compensation cancelled the contract in 2014, because there was 
no PPI, but they cant provide a copy of the call where they told her this. In 2014 there wasnt 
a requirement for Investor Compensation to record calls or to keep any recorded calls for 
any length of time. Because of this, the lack of call recordings doesnt mean theyre trying to 
hide something. I cant uphold a complaint on the lack of call recordings alone.
Because Lender B said there was no PPI, I wouldnt expect Investor Compensation to do 
anything more  as they believed there was no claim there was nothing to chase or update 
Ms H on. The situation didnt change until Lender B confirmed their error. And even if the 
contract had been cancelled (and I cant say that it was) the terms Ms H agreed to means 
that Investor Compensations fee would still be due.I accept Ms H is frustrated by this situation, and its been caused by Lender B making an 
error in 2014. But as Investor Compensation hasnt done anything wrong I cant say they 
should reduce their fee by 50%.
 My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint about Investor 
Compensation (UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman