DRN-3739639
The complaint
Mr C complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
A business called Oval Financial Service Limited gave Mr C the advice at the time. However, 
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited is now responsible for answering this complaint. So, in 
referring to the advising business Ill call it RQFS. 
What happened
In late 2010, Mr C was a recently deferred member of an OPS. Hed accrued the benefits 
from service with a previous employer hed recently left. 
The OPS signalled an intention to offer a time-limited enhancement to the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) for deferred members who opted to leave the DB scheme. In Mr Cs 
case, an offer of £3,422 was being made on top of the CETV of £9,930, making the total 
enhanced CETV around £13,352. Mr C was offered regulated financial advice. RQFS was 
contracted to provide that advice.
Information gathered about Mr C at that time was broadly as follows:
He was aged 45, married to Mrs C and at the time they had no financial dependents.
Mr and Mrs C owned their own home and had around £50,000 savings and 
investments, although there were no specific details recorded of where that money 
was held. Mr and Mrs C had combined net salaries of £4,000 per month and £900 
per month net disposable income.
As well as the DB scheme in question, Mr C also had a personal pension plan with a 
large and well-known pension provider said at the time to have a fund value of 
around £80,000.
Mr C said at the time of the advice that he hoped to retire at around the age of 60 
although the normal retirement age (NRA) for the OPS was 65. However, the 
recommendation documentation also mentions Mr C wanted to retire, if possible, as 
early as age 57.
Mr C now says he was given unsuitable advice by RQFS and states all the contacts between 
himself and the advisers was by post or other remote means. 
RQFS previously disputed whether the complaint had been brought by Mr C in accordance 
with the relevant time limits. In August 2022, I issued a Jurisdiction Decision about this, 
outlining that I thought the complaint was within our jurisdiction to consider, and I directed 
our investigator to carry on with his inquiry. He subsequently said we should uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. 
RQFS doesnt agree with this. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of RQFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, RQFS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the OPS 
was in Mr Cs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
The recommendation
Im going to start by pointing out, as our investigator did, that RQFSs recommendation to 
transfer away from his OPS was mainly based Mr C on transferring the full CETV and the 
enhancement, to a new personal pension. 
However, its clear throughout the postal documentation Mr C completed, that he preferred 
to take the enhancement portion on its own, as a cash lump-sum (on which hed have to pay 
some income tax). Mr C subsequently took the enhancement in cash, which amounted to 
around £2,700. He went on to spend the money. In this context, Mr C ultimately went against 
the RQFS advice. At the time of the advice, there was no specific regulatory advice or guidance in place in 
respect of insistent clients, a term commonly used in the industry to explain when a client 
goes against what an adviser is recommending. However, there were still a number of 
important COBS rules in the regulators Handbook. These included but were not limited to a 
requirement upon RQFS to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client. In addition to this, COBS required RQFS to provide information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, everything Ive said above demonstrates that firms, like RQFS, still had a number of 
important responsibilities when providing advice in these situations. And despite what Mr C 
might have thought he wanted at the time, I think his overall expectation was that he would 
be clearly guided by RQFS on the basis of his circumstances and means. 
Upon receiving Mr Cs instructions to transfer only the original CETV of £9,930 to a new 
personal pension, RQFS wrote to Mr C on 14 March 2011 and reiterated that what he was 
asking for was not in accordance with its recommendation. Nevertheless, it said it was 
happy to proceed with his request and it transacted the transfer-out on this basis.
I accept that RQFS did point out to Mr C that its recommendation was to transfer the full 
amount, rather than just the CETV of £9,930. But I also think its fair to point out that the 
option to take the enhanced cash element had previously been put to him in the preliminary 
documents such as the fact-find when he was deciding what to do about the offer. I think 
questions and statements such as I would seriously consider giving up any guarantees and 
accept greater degree of risk in exchange for the possibility of a higher pension and / or 
greater flexibility would have already had an influential effect on Mr Cs view about what he 
thought was the right thing to do.
So, the fact Mr C ticked certain pre-prepared boxes on a form and made some generic 
statements  such as him having a need for the cash  ought to have been to be balanced 
against the responsibilities his financial adviser had at the time: RQFSs responsibility to act 
in Mr Cs interests didnt end just because hed ticked some boxes. 
So, I think when RQFS received Mr Cs postal documents about his pension preferences, it 
should have enquired as to what the cash enhancement money was really for. And it should 
have pointed out straight away that he had other means to pay for what he wanted to do. For 
instance, RQFS had already been told Mr C had savings of £50,000 and Ive seen no 
evidence that his need for £2,700 in cash at the time was so great as to make accessing the 
pension enhancement the right thing to do. This should therefore have been pointed out 
once again to Mr C as should the obvious fact that he seemed to be needlessly incurring a 
tax penalty by accessing this money. 
In short, what I think happened here was that RQFS simply conducted the transfer of the 
OPS on this basis and it didnt properly reiterate its advice or why what Mr C was proposing 
was unnecessary and unsuitable for him. I think its likely that the communication methods in 
this case exacerbated these failures, as RQFS should have entered into a further dialog with 
Mr C and comprehensively explained the long-term consequences of his actions.
Of course, I accept this was a relatively small pension. But it nonetheless was estimated to 
pay him an annual amount of £993 per year at 65. And as I explain below, there are several 
other reasons, connected with the guarantees and benefits, which made this pension useful 
in Mr Cs circumstances. 
As I also explain below, even if I consider the actual advice  to transfer both the CETV and 
the enhancement, I still believe this was unsuitable. The following paragraphs explain why.Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, RQFS referred in its transfer analysis to 
critical yield rates.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
Based on the total enhanced transfer value of £13,352 RQFS said the critical yield required 
to match Mr Cs full OPS benefits at the age of 65 was 6.6%, and 7.3% at the age of 60. The 
corresponding yields were also provided if Mr C had chosen to take a tax-free lump sum 
together with a reduced pension at those ages; these were 5.9% (aged 65) and 6.4% (60) 
respectively.
However, Mr C had told RQFS at the time that he had a requirement for, and wanted to 
spend, the cash enhancement element separately. And we now know Mr C went on to take 
the cash enhancement of £3,422 as a taxable lump sum. In its transfer analysis, RQFS 
referred to the critical yields for this eventuality, describing them as Alternative Critical 
Yields. In this case, the yields were 8.2% at the age of 65 (if taking a full pension) and 9.5% 
at the age of 60 (full pension). And if taking a reduced pension together a with a tax-free 
lump sum upon retirement, the yields were 7.5% and 8.5% respectively.
Our investigator, not unreasonably in my view, pointed out that Mr C wanted to take  and 
eventually did take - the enhancement element as cash. He had also clearly said he wanted 
to retire under the scheme rules early if possible. So the investigator thought the critical yield 
figure of 8.5% was ultimately the appropriate one to use.  
RQFS said at the time that it was possible for growth in a personal pension to match the 
critical yield. But I dont see evidence of this and, in my view, there would also be little point 
in Mr C transferring away from a DB scheme only to achieve similar growth. But here, I think 
the likelihood was that he would receive less pension benefits in the longer by transferring. 
For example, the advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman 
Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rates published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 were 6.4% per year for 19 years to retirement (calculated to age 65) 
and 6.3% (calculated to age 60), which are well below the 8.5% critical yield figure Ive set 
out above. This therefore implied that achieving the critical yield rate would be unlikely. 
Even compared with RQFSs original recommendation, I think the relevant critical yield to 
use, as explained above, was 6.4%.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the 
middle projection rate was 7%, and the lower projection rate was 5%. When asked about his 
attitude to risk (ATR) Mr C preferred his funds to be in a balanced portfolio, so I therefore think a growth rate around the mid-point of the regulators projections above could have 
been reasonably assumed.  
Ive taken all these projected growth figures into account together with the critical yields and 
also the likely additional fees and charges associated with a personal pension, which I think 
would have acted as a drag on future growth. And I think theres a clear indication that by 
transferring out of his DB scheme at the time, Mr C would be likely to obtain pension benefits 
of a lower overall value than the scheme he was in, over the longer term.
For this reason, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility
The recommendation letter of 2 February 2011 said that Mr C should transfer the benefits of 
his OPS to a personal pension plan. In support of this, it said Mr C had indicated he wanted 
flexibility and control and the ability to generate more tax-free cash when he eventually 
came to access his benefits. The issue of death benefits was also briefly included. Ill 
address each of these areas in turn.
However, I dont think it could be reasonably said that Mr C required flexibility in retirement 
at the time. This is because Mr C was only 45 years old at the time of the advice and based 
on what Ive seen he didnt have concrete retirement plans. So, whilst I accept he may have 
had an aspiration to retire early, it was still many years before he could think about 
accessing his pension benefits. I therefore think it was much too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what 
his needs in retirement would be. If Mr C later had reason to transfer out of the DB scheme 
he could have done so closer to retirement.
Ive also noted that at the time Mr C already had a substantial degree of flexibility with the 
defined contribution (DC) pension he had. Mr C had already built up pension savings of 
£80,000 in this fund and I think its reasonable to assume he could contribute more in the 
following years and benefit from a degree of future growth. In reality, Mr Cs OPS was 
modest by comparison so I dont think he needed flexibility  which in any event was poorly 
defined by RQFS. I think this was no more than a stock objective and not really related to 
Mr Cs circumstances.
Tax-free cash
It was also implied Mr C may have been able to access more tax-free cash by transferring. 
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the schemes are 
calculated differently. However, this was a only a small pension and as Ive said, it couldnt 
reasonably be said at that point what Mr Cs retirement needs or plans were. Whether he 
therefore would have opted to take tax-free cash was merely speculation at that point in 
time. In any event, RQFS should have been telling Mr C that extra tax-free lump sums being 
removed from a personal pension, also came with consequences in that the amount left for 
his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against remaining in the OPS which came with a range of 
benefits and guarantees. Death benefits 
RQFS said that death benefits in a personal pension could enable Mr C to better choose the 
beneficiary of his fund if he died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr C. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
Mr C was in good health and still only 45 years old. I also think the likely death benefits 
attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. As Mr C was married, I think the spouses 
pension provided by the OPS would have been useful to Mrs C if Mr C predeceased her and 
I dont think RQFS made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. 
In any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway upon Mr Cs passing. Mr C 
could have also nominated Mrs C as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC 
scheme. Life insurance may also have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr C really 
did want to leave a legacy for Mrs C. 
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. I think this 
objective, listed briefly as it was in the recommendation section, was also no more than a 
generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Cs situation. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But RQFS 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. he was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  So, I think RQFS should have advised Mr C to remain in 
his DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think RQFS should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for RQFSs unsuitable advice. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. Hes said he 
doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. 
RQFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As Ive said, Mr C was only 45 years old at the time and had no concrete plans to retire. 
Compensation should be based on his NRA of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
RQFS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date RQFS receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes RQFS to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
RQFS should pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. As our investigator 
explained, he has had to live with the worry that the advice he was given, more than a 
decade ago, was unsuitable.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect RQFS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require 
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require R&Quiem 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on R&Quiem Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman