DRN-4329295
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W think their claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) was unfairly declined. They were also 
unhappy with the general level of customer service provided.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their policy when the gable wall of their property came 
crashing down during strong winds. 
RSA appointed a surveyor to review and validate the claim. Based on the report and 
photographs provided by the surveyor RSA decided to decline the claim. It didnt think the 
storm was the main cause of the gable wall collapsing. Additionally, it commented that it was 
likely there was gradual deterioration of the wall, and it needed maintenance.
Mr and Mrs W were extremely disappointed. The poor condition of the wall was a safety 
hazard, so they felt RSA shouldve acted quicker and shouldve accepted the claim. They 
didnt want to take any risks with the wall, so commissioned their own builder to repair the 
damage. Mr and Mrs W want their claim settled and compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think it was fair that RSA applied 
their exclusion for gradual deterioration. He said RSA should re-consider the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. He also increased the compensation 
by £150 (to £300) for the anxiety RSAs communications and decision caused. RSA 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed why RSA declined the claim. Its final response letter to Mr and Mrs W confirms 
that RSA didnt believe the storm was the main cause of the wall collapsing. So, Ive 
considered whether I think it has been reasonable in reaching this conclusion.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider:
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Ive reviewed weather reports from the time of the reported incident and peak gusts of 61 
mph were recorded. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions to understand how it defines a 
storm. The policy states a storm will involve very strong winds powerful enough to cause 
structural damage to homes within its path. Its usually accompanied by torrential rainfall, hail 
or heavy snow. Damage caused by normal weather conditions commonly experienced in the 
UK is often the result of wear and tear or lack of maintenance and isnt covered.
I think that the wind speed gusts that were reported are consistent with a storm, so I will 
move on to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
RSA said the damage witnessed wasnt consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
Gusts of 61 mph suggest the storm was powerful. Its unusual to see winds this strong 
inland. I think winds of this force could potentially uproot trees or cause considerable 
structural damage. Therefore, I think as the winds were so strong, I do think its possible the 
damage couldve been caused by the storm. So, I have considered the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I think Mr and Mrs W were right in making a claim following the storm. It was the trigger for 
the damage that they claimed for. The evidence suggests this was the first time they noticed 
any damage to the gable wall.
Ive looked at the process RSA has taken in reviewing the claim.
RSA sent a surveyor initially to report on the damage. Ive reviewed the report and it appears 
thorough. Its supported by several clear photographs and verbally recorded observations of 
the engineer. Ive listened to the surveyors observations. He said [the damage] isnt 
consistent with [what a] storm [would cause]. [There are] no wall ties  [its just] a 
freestanding wall. He further explains there is significant evidence of corroded wall ties and 
gradual movement to the wall as its bowed in the centre.
Mr and Mrs W explained how theyd had wall ties replaced around 1992. RSA explained 
these are unlikely to have a life expectancy beyond 30 years. Having reviewed the 
photographs, the wall ties that are visible are evidently corroded. There is no reason for me 
to think the surveyor hasnt done a thorough and professional job. I appreciate Mr and Mrs 
Ws builder said there were many wall ties in the rubble, however, I think the report, 
supporting photos and explanation of the surveyor is more persuasive.
When Mr and Mrs W complained about the decision, RSA had its internal technical team 
review the claim to provide a second opinion. I think this was a reasonable course of action. 
Ive looked to see if there is anything contradictory in this review. But the second opinion is 
consistent. She says a gap is now visible between the ridge tiles and coping stones well 
before the high winds in January 2023. This clearly identifies movement occurring on the 
gable end in 2022, which has then slowly progressed. She continues the movement is a 
key part of the cause of damage along with the lack of/ deteriorated wall ties are the 
dominant cause of the gable end collapse. The winds around the time have simply 
highlighted an ongoing issue which the member wouldnt have been aware of.
I think RSA has reasonably proven the gable wall was significantly weakened before the 
storm and the storm merely highlighted this pre-existing weakness. However, the claim was made for the storm and in declining the claim, RSA has said ongoing movement and 
deteriorated wall ties were the cause of the weakening. Ive said I think the damage caused 
is consistent with what a storm may cause, therefore, whilst RSA hasnt specifically said it 
used an exclusion in the policy to decline the claim. I think in effect it has relied on the 
exclusion as the points it refers to relate to gradual causes and deterioration / wear and tear.
Our service wont automatically say that the insurer treats the customer fairly by relying on 
the exclusion to decline the claim  we take a second step. Ive considered whether I think 
Mr and Mrs W shouldnt (or shouldnt reasonably) have been aware of the damage 
happening gradually  and that they made the claim or took reasonable action as soon as 
they became aware.
I dont think the movement in the wall was visible to Mr and Mrs W from ground level. They 
wouldnt have seen the gap at the top of the wall that RSA has highlighted. RSA hasnt 
showed any evidence the wall was bowing before the storm. Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have 
seen the condition of the wall ties. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve been aware of 
any pre-existing damage  and I dont think they reasonably couldve been. This is 
supported by RSAs own technical team who said the member wouldnt have been aware 
of the ongoing issue.
So, as Mr and Mrs W were unaware of any need to take action to remedy any issues on their 
home  I think a fair and reasonable outcome is to say RSA cant rely on the exclusion. The 
storm was the trigger for the claim and I dont think its fair to apply the exclusion in these 
circumstances. So, I uphold this complaint. I think RSA should re-consider the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the delays in the claim. I think there is evidence that the 
surveyor who attended the property informed Mr and Mrs W that the claim would be 
declined. RSA has shown work was going on in the background to validate the claim. 
However, as I think this RSA reached the wrong outcome, it shouldve acted sooner given 
the safety concerns at the property at the time. Therefore, Im increasing the compensation 
by £150 (to £300 in total) for the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited need to:
Re-consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay £150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (RSA should also pay the 
£150 already offered if it hasnt already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman