DRN-3956143
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding a 
transfer he instructed to an overseas recipient.
What happened
Mr S in instructed a transfer from his HSBC UK account to an overseas recipient. The 
overseas receiving bank received the funds but asked for further information about the 
transfer which led to HSBC UK having to contact Mr S to obtain further information from him. 
Mr S provided the further information to HSBC UK, but the transfer was later cancelled by 
the overseas recipient bank and the funds returned to Mr Ss HSBC UK account. Mr S 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC UK looked at Mr Ss complaint. They explained that they had no control over the 
requirements of an overseas bank but accepted that could have tried contacting Mr S for the 
further information required by the overseas bank more quickly than they did. HSBC UK 
apologised to Mr S for this and paid £100 to him as compensation for any trouble or upset he 
may have incurred. HSBC UK also paid a further £153.52 to Mr S to cover the loss hed 
incurred on the transfer balance due to the two-way currency exchange. Mr S wasnt 
satisfied with HSBC UKs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint but felt that the response HSBC UK had 
issued to Mr S already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr S remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC UK processed the transfer to the overseas recipient bank as Mr S requested, and it 
was that overseas bank that required further information before they would allow the transfer 
to complete. HSBC UK have no control over this, because as a UK based bank they have no 
influence over the requirements of an overseas bank or the regulations in that territory.
Im aware that Mr S feels that because the overseas recipient bank was in the same global 
group of companies as HSBC UK, that the transfer shouldnt have been subject to the further 
information requested by the overseas bank. However, in this instance, the two banks 
operate in different countries, and as such are distinctly separate companies, regardless of 
whether they are in the same global group of companies or not. This is because different 
countries have different sets of rules and regulations, which here led to the overseas 
recipient bank requesting further information about the transfer in line with the rules and 
regulations of the country in which the recipient overseas bank itself operates.
Furthermore, its evident that HSBC UK responded to the recipient overseas bank with the 
further information provided to them by Mr S, but that the overseas bank then responded by 
asking for clarification of that information and then cancelled the transfer shortly afterwards 
without giving HSBC UK a reasonable time to respond.
This isnt to say that HSBC UK acted entirely without error here, and indeed HSBC UK have 
acknowledged that they could have acted more quickly to resolve the issues with the 
overseas recipient bank in the first instance. And it was for this reason that HSBC UK 
apologised to Mr S and made the payments of £100 compensation and £153.52 loss 
reimbursement to him that they did.
Where a business has acknowledged that it made a mistake  as HSBC UK has here  this 
service would look to see if that business had taken the corrective action necessary to 
ensure that its affected customer didnt incur a financial loss as a result, and also whether 
that business had considered the impact of what happened on its customer. 
In this instance, HSBC UK reimbursed £153.52 to Mr S to ensure that he didnt incur any 
loss, and they also considered the impact of what happened and paid compensation to Mr S 
accordingly. And this is what I would have instructed HSBC UK to have done if they hadnt 
already done it. 
Additionally, while I accept that matters of compensation can be subjective, the £100 that 
HSBC UK have paid Mr S for not responding to the request for further information from the 
overseas bank as quickly as they could have done in the first instance does seem a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what 
I may have instructed HSBC UK to pay, had they not already done so.
All of which means Im satisfied that the response HSBC UK have issued to Mr S, including 
the apology, the payment of compensation, and the reimbursement of currency exchange 
losses, already represents a fair outcome to what happened here. And it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC UK to take any further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman