DRN-3257977
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost when he 
fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr B was scammed. Nor is it in dispute that, for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, he authorised the 
payments. So the starting position is that hes liable for them.
That said, there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into 
account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, 
so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. 
We dont expect banks to play amateur detective and carry out extensive checks on 
individual merchants its customers choose to pay. But Id reasonably expect them to 
keep track of warnings published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
Investor Alerts Portal Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). 
Only the first payment went directly to the scammers (R). And there were no FCA or 
IOSCO warnings about R at that point. The remaining payments went through 
companies that appear to have been a genuine merchants (V and C) unconnected to 
the scam. There were/are no warnings about them either. So I dont think the 
payment destinations reasonably alerted Santander to the fraud risk.
I also dont consider the payments (made between September and December 2019) 
unusual enough to have warranted further intervention. They were all less than 
£3,000. Whereas Mr B made several similar/larger payments in the months leading 
up to the scam. Such as a £5,000 card payment and a £6,600 transfer in July 2019. 
This meant the disputed payments appeared in line with the general account use. Im 
also conscious most payments went to C over a period of months, making it appear 
an expected, trusted payee.
Mr B says he asked Santander about some refunds he received before making the 
later scam payments, but didnt hear back. He says, if it had responded, this would 
have alerted him that something was wrong  as he later realised through his own 
investigations. But as explained above, its not down to Santander to research 
merchants its customers choose to pay. Mr B chose to continue making payments 
without a response, and the further payments didnt go directly to the same 
merchants as those who paid the credits. So I dont think its fair to hold Santander 
liable for Mr Bs loss on these grounds. 
Ive also listened to a call Mr B had with Santander whilst the scam was ongoing, 
where he asked about stopping the payment hed authorised to V. Santander 
cancelled his card and explained he should try to resolve the issue with V directly, 
and he could raise a dispute if that was unsuccessful. Im conscious this payment 
was the only one made to V, a genuine crypto company that was able to 
demonstrate it had provided the service expected, i.e. loading his wallet with the 
funds. Im not persuaded Mr B said anything during the call that reasonably ought to 
have alerted Santander that he was being scammed, or caused it to question the 
payments he continued to make to C (who hed already made several payments to, 
which he wasnt querying or disputing). Overall, I consider it reasonable that 
Santander didnt consider the payments to be suspicious and so simply acted on Mr 
Bs authorised payment instructions.
Ive also considered whether Santander should have done more to help recover 
Mr Bs loss when he realised it was a scam, such as by raising a chargeback claim. It 
attempted some, but these were defended. For example, on the payment which went 
directly to R, they showed theyd refunded the payment in excess. That appears 
correct as the payment was for £221.99, and he received back £169.63 then £94.50 
(£264.13 in total) before making any further payments. As chargeback claims are 
capped at the amount of the payment, there wouldn't have been grounds for a further 
refund in relation to this payment.
The remaining payments went through C and V before reaching R. Whereas a 
chargeback claim would only consider a claim against the merchant Mr B paid 
directly. Mr B hasnt provided evidence that C or V did anything wrong. To the 
contrary, it appears they processed the transactions requested of them. So there 
werent grounds for a successful chargeback claim on these indirect payments either.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, who is the victim of a cruel scam. But Im not 
persuaded that Santander reasonably ought to have prevented, or recovered, his loss. So I 
cant fairly hold it liable for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman