DRN-4012974
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has unfairly declined a claim they 
made for damage caused by subsidence.
What happened
In 2021, Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds to report cracks found in their property. Lloyds 
declined the claim. It said Mr and Mrs W had had a previous subsidence claim in 2014, with 
a different insurer, where a drain was repaired to resolve the subsidence issue. Its view was 
that the damage wasnt new, but a result of the work carried out by that insurer. It said this 
wasnt covered by the policy. It directed Mr and Mrs W back to the previous insurer.
Mr and Mrs W complained but as Lloyds didnt agree to change its position, a complaint was 
brought to this service.
Our investigator thought Lloyds hadnt done enough to show the damage was related to the 
previous claim. She said Lloyds should carry out further investigations to establish whether 
this was a new occurrence of subsidence. She also said Lloyds should pay £500 
compensation for the distress caused in delaying the investigation.
Lloyds didnt accept that. It said Mr and Mrs W had accepted this damage was linked to an 
old claim, and so the previous insurer should carry out any further work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Mr and Mrs W had a previous claim for damage caused by subsidence in 
2014. As far as Im aware the claim, and repairs, were finished a couple of years later. Mr 
and Mrs Ws policy with Lloyds started in 2019. Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds about 
further damage in 2021. So under the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Domestic 
Subsidence Agreement, where the claim is made more than one year from the start of the 
current policy, the current insurer  Lloyds should accept the claim. 
Lloyds argues that the damage relates to substandard repairs from the original claim. It says 
the cracks are to the front right-hand side of the property, which was the same area 
previously affected. It says previous cracks have reopened and the damage should be 
classed as happening before the policy started. So not covered under the policy.
Having reviewed all the evidence, Im not satisfied Lloyds has shown the damage happened 
before the policy started. Mr and Mrs W didnt report the issue until 2021. I havent been 
provided with any persuasive evidence from Lloyds to support its claim the damage was 
there when the policy was taken out. So its unreasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on 
the basis of the damage pre-dating the policy. 
Lloyds has said Mr and Mrs W admitted in a phone call that the damage was historic, so it 
shows there were issues. But there is no recording of this conversation, and Im not 
persuaded their comments  if made  are enough to demonstrate the damage pre-dates 
the policy. Mr and Mrs W were aware of the previous claim; if damage had appeared earlier 
than 2019 (when the policy started) I see no reason why they would delay in reporting it for 
more than two years. 
It also seems Lloyds dont consider the damage to be caused by subsidence. As it doesnt 
consider the property to be progressively moving. It says due to poor initial repairs, the 
cracks have reopened. But Lloyds accepts it hasnt done any monitoring of the property, or 
any drain survey to check the previous repair. So Im not persuaded it can say the damage 
isnt progressive. It seems to rely on the fact that the cracks are largely in the same area as 
the previous claim as a means to say its not progressive. But the previous repairs were 
carried out a number of years ago. And Mr and Mrs W havent reported any issues in the 
interim. Lloyds also accepts in its report that its conclusions are based on limited 
investigations. So Im not persuaded Lloyds has shown the damage isnt caused by a new 
occurrence of subsidence.
I accept that it is for an insured (so in this case Mr and Mrs W) to show theyve suffered a 
loss which is covered by the policy. But subsidence claims can be complex, and this service 
would expect an insurer to help its customer by carrying out monitoring, or further 
investigations to assist in determining the cause of the damage. In the circumstances of this 
case, Im not satisfied it has done enough to show the property isnt suffering from 
subsidence. 
So Lloyds will need to carry our further investigations to determine whether Mr and Mrs Ws 
property is suffering from damage caused by subsidence. 
Lloyds also needs to pay compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs W for the delay in these investigations starting. A considerable 
amount of time has passed since Mr and Mrs W reported the damage. And having damage 
to their home will cause distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs W were also 
inconvenienced by being repeatedly referred back to a previous insurer, then they shouldnt 
have been. So Lloyds needs to pay Mr and Mrs W £500 compensation to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Society of Lloyds needs to carry out further investigations to 
determine if Mr and Mrs Ws property is suffering from subsidence. It should start these 
investigations without delay.
It also needs to pay Mr and Mrs W £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman