DRN-3324316
The complaint
Mr B complains about the exchange rate used by TSB Bank plc (TSB) when converting 
funds sent to his account.
What happened
Mr B holds an account with TSB. In 2021, he received a payment into his account in Euros, 
which TSB converted into Sterling. Mr B complained to TSB about the exchange rate it had 
used to convert the funds. He referred to a different rate which he said ought to have been 
used on the day of the conversion and said that the rate used by TSB was arbitrary and 
unreasonably high, causing him to lose out financially.
TSB explained that its exchange rate is linked to live industry rates and can change by the 
minute. It didnt uphold the complaint as it said it had processed the payment correctly. But 
Mr B wasnt happy with TSBs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt think TSB had acted unfairly. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account say that TSB will convert foreign currency 
payments into his account into Sterling using its standard exchange rate. By opening and 
continuing to use his account, Mr B agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions. From 
the information available to me, Im satisfied that TSB converted the currency in line with 
them.
The terms say that Mr B can find out TSBs exchange rate by calling it or asking in branch. I 
think thats reasonable. The phone number is set out in the terms and conditions.
The incoming payment came from a relative and, from what Mr B says, I understand that he 
was expecting it. So I think its fair to say that he could have contacted TSB before the 
payment was made in order to find out the exchange rate which would be applied to it.
Mr B says that his relative wasnt informed of the exchange rate which TSB intended to use. 
But it wasnt for TSB to tell the payer what exchange rate it would use. Im not aware that 
TSB was expecting the payment. And, in any event, it would fall to the payers bank to 
discuss exchange rates with the payer. 
When funds are sent internationally, the currency can be converted either at the payers end 
or by the payee upon receipt. Mr Bs relative could have spoken to their own bank to find out 
what exchange rate they would use to convert the funds into Sterling before sending them. If 
that rate had been acceptable, the sending bank could have converted the funds at the 
outset. Mr B would then have received them into his TSB account in Sterling and would have 
known in advance how much would be credited. 
The other approach was adopted here, that is - the payer left the currency conversion to be 
done by Mr Bs bank. The funds were transferred to TSB in Euros and were converted by 
TSB upon receipt so that they could be credited to Mr Bs Sterling account. I dont find that 
TSB did anything wrong in the way it dealt with the incoming payment.
But Mr B says that TSB shouldnt be allowed to use an arbitrary exchange rate and pocket 
the difference. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that TSB didnt apply any 
additional charges to the transaction. It converted the funds using its standard exchange rate 
and credited the converted funds to Mr Bs account in full. I havent seen anything to suggest 
that TSB treated Mr Bs payment any differently from how it said it would in the terms and 
conditions. And Mr B could have found out the actual rate to be used if hed called TSB 
before the funds were transferred. So I dont think TSB made a mistake or acted 
unreasonably here.
I understand that Mr B feels strongly that the exchange rate used by TSB was unfair and that 
he lost money as a result. But its not the role of this service to tell TSB what rates to use. 
What we look at is whether it acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of the 
case. I think it did here because I find that it treated the payment in the way it said it would 
and that this information was available to Mr B before the transaction. So, Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr B but Im not going to ask TSB to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman