DRN-4292948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint is about three claims they made on their U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) travel insurance policy between 2020 and 2022.
UKI paid the first two claims but declined the third. Following an investigation into that claim 
UKI determined that Mr and Mrs O had acted fraudulently and declined cover. As a result, 
they voided the policy and asked Mr and Mrs O to pay back the sums theyd paid out.
Mr and Mrs O say theyve been treated unfairly and want UKI to cover the third claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O held travel insurance with UKI through their packaged bank account.
From 2020 they made three separate claims for hospital treatment whilst abroad over a 16 
month period. All three claims were similar in nature. The first two related to hospital 
treatment for Mr O whilst he was abroad whilst the third was for treatment for Mrs O. UKI 
considered the first two claims and paid them. The total paid out for those claims amounted 
to over £45,0000.
When the claim for Mrs O was made, UKI made further enquiries to validate it. This 
prompted them to look back at the previous claims made by Mr O to compare the 
information given in light of the proximity of the claims in time and the similarity of treatment 
claimed for. 
UKI asked Mr O for further information to answer several discrepancies in relation to all three 
claims. UKI say they didnt receive the information they needed to satisfy themselves that 
they were genuine. As such they determined the claims had been made fraudulently and 
declined to cover the third one. They also asked for the sums already paid in respect of the 
first two claims to be returned to them and put Mr and Mrs O on notice that the policy would 
be cancelled with no return of premium and that the relevant authorities may be notified, and 
details of the matter shared with fraud prevention agencies.
Mr and Mrs O dont agree with the action UKI have taken so referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator considered their complaint and concluded 
that it shouldnt be upheld. She said that UKI were entitled to take the action they had 
because Mr and Mrs O hadnt supplied them with credible evidence that their claims were 
genuine when discrepancies were put to them. Mr and Mrs O dont agree so the matter has 
been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint for broadly the same reasons set 
out by the investigator. Ill explain why.
When UKI began to investigate the latest claim made for Mrs O, they identified a number of 
areas of concern that Mr and Mrs O werent able to provide credible answers to. I appreciate 
that Mr and Mrs O arent happy with the issues that UKI have identified. Ive dealt with their 
comments in relation to those under the headings below.
Place of residence
The policy will provide travel insurance cover if Mr and Mrs O spend at least six months of 
any twelve month period in the UK. 
On conducting their enquiries, UKI discovered that Mr and Mrs O have a home in the country 
they were claiming medical expenses in and that Mr O had a business and other charitable 
interests there. They also discovered that he had and appeared to be continuing to pursue a 
run for governor in one of the states in that country. UKI thought that taken together, this 
suggested that Mr and Mrs O were resident in the country they were claiming in for longer 
than six months of the year. 
Mr and Mrs O dont agree. They say that as Mr O was born in that country, he was entitled to 
run for governor, that the business described was nothing more than a hobby business to 
pass the time and that having charitable interests in another country didnt mean they stayed 
there for longer than six months of the year. Whilst that might be right, Mr and Mrs O didnt 
provide UKI with any evidence of how long they spent away from the UK in the policy years 
they had made claims on and without this information, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
UKI to decline the latest of the three claims made.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O have now provided some additional documents to support Mr 
Os residency. That information wasnt provided to UKI when they requested it and from 
what I can see theres nothing that confirms Mr Os residency in one country or another in 
any event.
Evidence supplied to support third claim
When a claim was made for Mrs O, UKI asked for evidence to support how hospital deposits 
were paid for, which totalled around £6,000. Mr O said the two deposits totalling this amount 
were paid in cash, but he wasnt able to supply any evidence of this sum being withdrawn 
from his bank or cite any other relevant source of payment.
Two receipts were however supplied to support the claim, which purported to come from the 
hospital, paid two days apart. The receipt numbers were consecutive. UKI concluded this 
was questionable. The hospital itself was large and busy so it was unlikely that no other 
payments had been made in between the payments Mr O said hed made. As such UKI 
asked for further evidence to support that the payments being claimed for had actually been 
made but nothing further was provided. 
Mr and Mrs O say its not their fault that the hospital provided consecutive receipt numbers, 
but they havent commented on why they couldnt prove how they paid for the sums claimed. 
In light of that, and given the lack of credible evidence to support the losses being claimed 
for, I dont think UKI were wrong to decline the claim.
Mr Os first two claims
Although UKI initially paid these claims, the third claim made for Mrs O gave them cause for 
concern, so they started to look at the evidence provided to support these. I dont think this 
was unreasonable given the proximity in time to Mrs Os claim and the fact that the medical 
treatment claimed for appeared to be very similar in nature and of high value. Mrs Os particular claim was for around £46,000, whilst the two claims Mr O had made amounted to 
roughly the same amount when taken together. Given the inconsistencies in Mrs Os claim, I 
think UKI were entitled to look back at these claims to decide whether they were made 
legitimately. 
The two claims Mr O made are relevant to Mrs Os claim because they were made before 
hers. If, as UKI has determined here, the policy was voided from that point onwards, there 
would be no cover for Mrs O in any event.
On reviewing the claims made by Mr O, UKI determined several areas of concern. Firstly, 
one of the hospitals Mr O says he had treatment at was verified by their agent to be a 
derelict building that was uninhabited and in disrepair. Local people were interviewed about 
whether there was a hospital there previously. One couldnt recall a medical facility of any 
kind ever being there and another said there may have been an antenatal centre there some 
years ago, but this wouldnt have been relevant to the claim Mr O was making.
Mr O has provided an affidavit from the Doctor he says had treated him. This set out that the 
hospital occupied various sites over the years but theres nothing that supports it was in the 
location that Mr O says he stayed in when he claimed by way of photographic evidence. 
Balancing this against UKIs agents report, including the fact that the site referred to looks 
like it had been uninhabited for some considerable time, Im not satisfied that theres enough 
evidence to suggest a hospital was in place when Mr O claimed he was treated there.
UKI said the telephone contact information supplied on the letterhead provided for the 
hospital was incorrect. One number didnt work at all whilst another contained an extra digit. 
Mr O says this is explained by the affidavit of the treating Doctor who says the additional 
digit was simply a typographical error. In response UKI said they found it unlikely the official 
letterhead for a hospital would contain such errors and they were concerned that there was 
no working telephone number available for the hospital at all. The only contact they were 
able to make was with the treating Doctor on his mobile phone, which seems inconsistent 
with his statement that he is part of a working hospital.  Im inclined to agree with UKI that 
these inconsistencies dont provide credible evidence to support Mr O was treated at the 
medical facility hed claimed for.
UKI contacted the medical centre Mr O said hed initially been treated at. It asked that centre 
to verify the reference number on the report Mr O had supplied. The medical centre said it 
didnt recognise the reference number provided. Mr O is unhappy that UKI contacted the 
medical centre. He says they did this without his consent and that they breached data 
protection legislation. I dont agree. UKI were entitled to verify the evidence Mr O had 
supplied in respect of his claim and as far as I can see, no credible explanation has been 
supplied to explain why the reference number wasnt one that the medical centre didnt 
recognise. In light of this I cant say the position UKI has taken in respect of Mr Os claim and 
subsequently Mrs Os, was unreasonable.
Finally, UKI were also concerned about a number of other discrepancies Mr O provided in 
Mrs Os claim such as his occupation. Initially he told them he was a Nurse but later 
changed that to bank staff. And when making his second claim, Mr O initially said he was 
claiming for Mrs O. When he was told that Mrs O had breached the trip limit for the policy 
and that she couldnt claim, he went on to say that he was unwell himself and wanted to 
pursue a claim.  Whilst there may be reasons to support why this information was given, I 
can see why UKI would find his account to be inconsistent and unpersuasive. Taken 
together with the inconsistencies in the evidence provided, I dont think it was wrong for UKI 
to invoke the fraud provision contained in the policy as it did. That provision says:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is inany way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. If you, any person insured under this policy or
anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false
or exaggerated claim;
- Your policy may be cancelled
- We may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
- We may keep any premium you have paid.
The policy also goes on to say:
We have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and share information
about your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud. We may also
involve the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal proceedings.
Taking everything into account, I dont think UKI did anything wrong. As matters stand there 
are several unexplained discrepancies that call into question the credibility of the claims 
made by Mr and Mrs O and have not been answered in a satisfactory manner. As such UKI 
were entitled to decline those claims, void the policy, retain the premium and make any 
applicable reports to relevant authorities should they wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman