DRN-3451803
The complaint
Mrs B complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked her account as it was discriminating 
against her.  
What happened
Around February 2021, Lloyds wrote to Mrs B asking for information about her source of 
income and certain transactions made from her account.  
As Lloyds did not hear from Mrs B, it sent her another letter in March 2021 explaining it has 
important regulatory responsibilities to meet. And if it did not get this information, it may need 
to change the services it provides to Mrs B. 
Mrs B did not respond. Lloyds restricted Mrs Bs account. Mrs B then contacted Lloyds and 
said its actions were based in discrimination because of the country she was born in and her 
ethnicity. 
Lloyds responded to Mrs Bs complaint. In summary, it said: 
It has legal and regulatory responsibilities in line with the UKs Sanctions regime. 
Mrs Bs country of birth is subject to financial sanctions as imposed in the UK 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires banks to keep Know Your 
Customer (KYC) information up to date and refresh it on a regular basis. It has 
requested this information to know more about Mrs B and what her standard 
transactions are 
The payments Lloyds reviewed were to identify if a risk assessment is required 
Mrs B referred her complaint to this service. She said Lloyds actions have caused her 
distress and inconvenience. Mrs B emphasised she was being racially discriminated against 
and is therefore the victim of unfair treatment.
One of our Investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. They asked Mrs B about the 
transactions Lloyds had wanted more information on  and asked her why there was an 
unusual number of uncharacteristic cash deposits made into her Lloyds account towards the 
end of 2020.  
Mrs B provided paperwork which showed she was the recipient of a substantial personal 
loan from a third-party lender. She also gave us statements from another account she has 
with a different bank, showing the loan was paid to her. Mrs B said she withdrew a large sum 
of cash from this other bank account and was depositing it into her Lloyds account to help 
meet her financial commitments. 
Our Investigator presented this information to Lloyds. It found Mrs Bs explanation plausible 
as she had provided evidence to show source of funds. Lloyds subsequently removed any 
restrictions from Mrs Bs account.
Following this, our Investigator sent both parties their outcome on the complaint. In 
summary, they found: 
- Lloyds actions arose from unusual activity on Mrs Bs account, and not anything to 
do with her ethnicity or country of birth
- Having reviewed the contact logs, and conversations with Mrs B, they didnt see 
anything which shows she was discriminated against either directly or indirectly. But 
Lloyds shouldve have given Mrs B more context when completing its KYC checks
- The questions Lloyds asked Mrs B, as part of its review, were not overly intrusive nor 
unnecessary 
- So Lloyds acted fairly when restricting Mrs Bs account and were obliged to 
investigate further
Unhappy with what our Investigator said, Mrs B asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I note she feels strongly 
about her complaint, and my decision will no doubt disappoint her. So, Ill explain why.
Banks in the UK, like Lloyds, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
To that end banks have rules they must follow to identify its customers, for establishing the 
purpose and intended nature of the business relationship, and origin of funds. This applies to 
both new and existing relationships. This is generally referred to as its customer due 
diligence rules  or also as KYC. 
Ive looked closely at the information, and reasons, Lloyds have given for restricting Mrs Bs 
account. Having looked at the transactions Lloyds say were unusual, Im satisfied they were 
sufficiently uncharacteristic for it to have concerns. And in turn, ask questions about.  
I havent seen that Mrs B provided this information to Lloyds despite it asking twice. So I 
think Lloyds acted fairly by restricting the account in the way it did  and did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account - and legal obligations it must follow. 
Our Investigator however was able to get information about these transactions from Mrs B 
which they sent to Lloyds to review. As Ive said above, Lloyds reviewed this information and 
subsequently removed the restrictions from the account. Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds have 
acted both fairly and reasonably once it received enough information.   
In its final response, Lloyds explained it has obligations it must meet in line with the UK 
sanctions regime. And Mrs Bs country of birth is a country which has sanctions placed 
against it. But, as I said above, Lloyds carried out its KYC checks due to unusual payments 
on Mrs Bs payments which it needed to make enquiries about.   So Im satisfied Lloyds made a legitimate and proportionate decision in restricting Mrs Bs 
account. This doesnt of course mean I think Mrs B has committed any wrongdoing. That is 
not what I need to decide; nor was it required of Lloyds to decide in order to take the action it 
did.
This brings me to the crux of Mrs Bs complaint, that is, she feels Lloyds discriminated 
against her due to her race and country of birth. Id like to assure Mrs B that Ive very 
carefully considered everything shes said about this. And I want to make clear I do not 
doubt how genuinely she feels about this matter and the upset Lloyds actions have caused 
her.
But Ive not seen any written policy document to that effect. Nor have I seen anything else 
which shows Lloyds was treating Mrs B differently because of a protected characteristic. And 
while I appreciate this is her perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination 
has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide this. 
I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mrs B has said when 
deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering 
the provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But after doing so, Ive not seen evidence to 
indicate Mrs B was discriminated on the grounds of her race or country of birth. So I havent 
found that Lloyds behaviour was improper.
Instead, and as Ive said already, there are a large number of regulations and laws banks 
must take heed of in running customers accounts. And it is in relation to those obligations 
that I find Lloyds decision to restrict Mrs Bs account was made.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman