DRN-3389850
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc has declined his claim for a refund of transactions he 
says he didnt authorise.
Whats happened?
Mr D has explained that his ex-partner opened a current account in his name without his 
knowledge several years ago. He used the account as his main account, and his salary was 
paid into it. His ex-partner had full access to the account, and he allowed her to use it to buy 
things for their children and so on. But in late 2020, he discovered that she had made 
several faster payments  totalling around £11,000  to her own account between 2018 and 
2020, without his permission (the payments). Mr D says: 
he didnt know internet banking had been set-up, and he didnt use it himself.
he didnt notice the payments earlier because he was always working so he didnt 
keep an eye on his account.
he knew his account balance was always low, but he didnt question this.
his ex-partner had access to his account, but he was unaware she was transferring 
money to herself out of it, and he didnt give her permission to do so.
Mr D raised a fraud claim with TSB in March 2021. TSB declined to refund the payments 
because it said that Mr D had breached the terms and conditions of his account by allowing 
a third-party access to it.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator said that the payments were properly authenticated and, although Mr D 
probably didnt authorise the payments, he failed with gross negligence to keep his account 
details safe. So, they didnt think it would be fair to require TSB to refund the payments.
Mr D asked for his complaint to be escalated, so it has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Broadly speaking, Mr D is responsible for any payments that he authorised (either by making 
them himself or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. The relevant regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), and Ive considered these alongside the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account. 
The key questions for me to decide are:
1. were the payments authorised by Mr D; and
2. if they werent, did Mr D fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his 
obligations under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions of his account?
I can see from the evidence that the payments were made via online banking and properly 
authenticated. But, for the payments to be considered authorised, Mr D must have 
consented to them as well  and he says he didnt. As Ive set out above, a customer isnt 
generally responsible for any unauthorised payments. But there are exceptions to that. The 
relevant one here is where a customer failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with 
their obligations under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions of their account by keeping 
their account details safe.
Mr D has said that his ex-partner opened his TSB account for him, and he allowed her to 
have unfettered access to it. He says he didnt know she was transferring money out of the 
account to her own account, but he knew she was using the account for other expenditure, 
and so had knowledge of his security credentials.
So, even if I were to accept Mr Ds version of events and conclude that the payments werent 
made by Mr D or carried out by someone else with Mr Ds consent  so they were 
unauthorised   Id have to conclude that Mr Ds ex-partner was able to make the payments 
because he didnt keep his account details safe as required. Either way, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to require TSB to refund the payments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman