DRN-3188840
The complaint
Ms G has complained The Co-Operative Bank plc didnt treat her concerns properly when 
she was in a branch about transactions on her account. She didnt think she was treated with 
respect. Shes also concerned that her account transactions and statements dont tally.
What happened
At an early stage of national lockdown in March 2020, Ms G received a large payment into 
her Co-op current account. She made a number of transfers to other accounts, as well as 
making some payments to charities. On 24 March 2020 Co-op sent five letters to Ms G 
confirming that five payments had not been sent as theyd got incorrect beneficiary details. 
The money from these payments was re-credited to Ms Gs account the same day.
In April 2020 Ms G went to her branch to query further payments. At the time and because of 
Covid regulations, the branch had limited ability to manage face-to-face queries. They were 
able to allocate a private room to Ms G to enable her to print out statements and query 
payments. She left confirming there was no fraud on her account as she originally believed 
may have been the case.
Ms G remained unhappy and spent some time speaking to Co-op over the phone. She 
brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence including the recollection of branch staff at the time 
Ms G was in branch. He felt overall there were no inconsistencies between the transactions 
and statements. He also didnt agree Ms G had been treated badly in branch.
Ms G disagreed. She asked a further review to be completed. Her complaint has been 
allocated to an ombudsman for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why 
below.
Ive reviewed Ms Gs detailed recollections of what happened when she went into branch in 
early April 2020. I completely understand she felt rushed, undermined and disrespected. 
I can see this was a time when bank branches were still finding an effective way of 
managing their customers in a Covid-environment. This was also a highly-emotional time 
with real concern by many of us about being out and about when our safety seemed under 
threat. Im sure Ms G felt these concerns as well. However from looking at what Co-op has 
told us, I believe staff in the branch took steps to treat Ms Gs concerns seriously, they 
allowed her to use a private room and enabled phone conversations which may help resolve 
her real concerns.
I appreciate all this probably took a lot longer than Ms G had been expecting. This would 
have increased her concerns about her safety. But overall I dont think she was mistreated. 
In fact I think, if anything, staff went out of their way to assist in what was very difficult 
circumstances.
I can see Ms G admitted to staff she was satisfied there was no fraud on her account as she 
left the branch. However reflected by the calls with the Co-op to follow this up, its clear Ms G 
was anxious about the state of her account. She wasnt sure about how the balance of her 
account was represented or that this was as it should be.
I note that this issue may have been compounded by the fact Ms G hadnt received her 
banks five letters telling her about payments that couldnt be made. Money was returned to 
her account that Ms G hadnt really known about. Ms G hadnt got these letters as shed 
changed addresses and not made Co-op aware of this. Letters were sent to an old address.
Ive reviewed Ms Gs Co-op bank statements. Ive not been able to identify any 
inconsistencies between the transactions and her balances. Ms G hasnt told us of any 
specific transactions she believes werent hers nor do I think theres any evidence of fraud 
here.
I do know that Ms G subsequently closed her current account with Co-op.
Having considered the evidence in full, including Ms Gs testimony, I dont believe itd be fair 
and reasonable to ask Co-op to do anything further in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Gs complaint against The 
Co-Operative Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman