DRN-4368962
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold him a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan, causing him losses. He wants 
compensation for the losses incurred.
Mr H is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC), but I will just 
refer to Mr H in this decision.
 
What happened
Mr H was sold the FSAVC in 1992 by Colonial Mutual and Aviva are now responsible for the 
advice given. He was a member of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS). This offered in-
house alternatives to FSAVCs in the form of an Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) 
plan and the option to buy added years. In 1998 Mr H joined the TPS in-house AVC 
following a presentation at his school by Prudential, who ran the AVC. He continued to pay 
into his FSAVC plan until 2015, before transferring it to another provider in 2018 and taking 
his tax-free cash. 
After speaking with his CMC Mr H made a complaint to Aviva saying it hadnt mentioned the 
availability of in-house alternatives in 1992 as it should have done under the regulations at 
the time. And, as in-house AVCs often had lower charges than FSAVCs, he might have 
suffered losses because of this. 
Aviva said it couldnt evidence that these options had been discussed, so it upheld the 
complaint. It said it would undertake charges-based calculations as set out by the financial 
regulators FSAVC Review Model Guidance from 2000 (the guidance) to compare the 
charges of the FSAVC plan to the in-house AVC, to establish if there had been a loss. It said 
in line with the guidance the causal link to the advice in 1992 had been broken when Mr H 
took out the AVC in 1998. So, it would only be liable for any loss due to charges between 
1992 and 1998. 
Mr H disagreed. He said the whole period should be covered as when he bought the AVC in 
1998 this wasnt based on a comparison with the FSAVC. And it hadnt alerted him to any 
problem with the advice hed been given in 1992. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, and he said it 
should be upheld.
Our investigator said as Aviva didnt dispute the FSAVC had been mis-sold the issue to 
decide was what loss calculation was fair. He said the regulators guidance was only 
guidance and shouldnt be applied if it would result in unfair redress being paid. He said he 
didnt think Mr H would have made the association in 1998 that there was a possible 
problem with advice given in 1992. As hed attended a group presentation rather than being 
given individual advice by Prudential. He said if Mr H had been given the correct information 
in 1992, he was more likely to have taken out the AVC, not the FSAVC, because of the lower 
charges. So, it was fair that the whole period from 1992 until 2015, when Mr H stopped 
paying contributions, be considered in the loss calculation. He said if the calculation showed 
a loss, Aviva should pay compensation to Mr Hs new pension plan, or to him directly if this 
wasnt possible. 
Aviva disagreed. It said it felt the policy wasnt mis-sold, rather that the sale wasnt fully 
compliant as there was no evidence alternative options were discussed. It said the main 
selling point of the in-house AVC was that it was likely to have lower charges. So, it was 
unlikely this wouldnt have been mentioned during the presentation Mr H had attended. It 
said it was also likely that Mr H would question why he should take out the AVC when he 
already had the FSAVC. It said the regulators guidance on FSAVCs gave the specific 
example of someone taking out an AVC as breaking the causal link with the original advice. 
And that Mr H would have been able to make an informed decision then. So, the calculations 
should be capped to 1998.  
Our investigator said there was no evidence Mr H knew there was a problem with the advice 
from 1992 in 1998. He said the Prudential adviser in 1998 wouldnt have been allowed to 
give advice on the existing Aviva FSAVC. And Mr Hs decision to take out the AVC was 
independent to the advice provided in 1992, which he continued to rely on. So, it was fair the 
whole period be considered.
Aviva said it was difficult to believe that the FSAVC wouldnt have been discussed with the 
Prudential adviser in 1998 or that the lower charges of the AVC wouldnt be mentioned. It 
said that it could be argued that because Mr H continued to contribute to his FSAVC after 
1998 it indicated that in-house options were discussed in 1992, meaning Mr H had made an 
informed decision then.    
As Aviva doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.
Theres no evidence that Aviva provided Mr H with information about in-house options in 
1992. That means it cant show the FSAVC sale was compliant, which does mean it was 
mis-sold. It is likely that charges on the in-house AVC would have been lower. So, had Mr H 
been told about the alternatives and gone on to make enquiries about them, I think its more 
likely than not that he would have opted for the in-house AVC. As it would be logical for him 
to have done so. 
Ive also considered the added years option. Although Mr H hasnt argued he would have 
gone down this route. Added years offered benefits linked to final earnings like the main 
TPS. But at the time these were generally seen as being rather expensive and inflexible 
compared to AVCs. So, whilst Mr H was in a stable occupation he was likely to remain in, 
which did favour the commitment added years required, I think it is more likely than not he 
would have opted for the AVC. 
As the AVC charges were likely to be lower than those of the FSAVC, Mr H may have 
suffered a loss. So, its fair that calculations be undertaken to compare the charges between 
the two options to establish this. And redress paid if required, to put Mr H back in the 
position he should have been in. That means the period of the calculation is important. And 
the decision I need to make here, is whether by 1998 Mr H should reasonably have known 
about the possible charging difference and whether this would have led him to question the 
advice from 1992, and no longer rely on it. There is little evidence available for me to consider. And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Aviva thinks that taking out the Prudential in house AVC in 1998 should have made Mr H 
aware that there might have been a problem, breaking the causal link to the advice given in 
1992. The guidance it refers to from the regulator does mention someone joining an in house 
AVC as being something that might break the causal link. The guidance also discusses the 
situation where more than one Firm has been involved in the advice the consumer has 
received. This is set out in section 8.2. 
Section 8.2.1 says:
Where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable with one or more other firms for 
the investors loss then the firm that gave the first advice should review the whole 
period (including the period after the other firm(s) became involved) and then seek to 
obtain redress from the other firm(s)
Section 8.2.2 says:
Where a firm believes that the causal link between the advice it gave and any 
ongoing loss has been broken, perhaps because a second firm gave advice at the 
same time as a change of employment, then the first firm need only consider the 
period up to the second advice.  
So, I think the guidance is giving examples of what might break the link, rather than saying 
certain events did break the link. 
Having considered the situation carefully I think the most likely position is that the causal link 
to the 1992 advice wasnt broken here. Its clear by 1998 Mr H was aware of the in-house 
alternatives. But theres no evidence about what was said at the presentation he attended. 
He has said he wasnt provided with individual advice by Prudential, and it was a tied adviser 
meaning it could only discuss its own products. It may have only talked about the in-house 
AVC. And made no direct comparison to the FSAVC alternative, other than noting that this 
was available. 
Prudential wouldnt have been able to offer Mr H any advice about the Aviva plan. So, it 
doesnt seem reasonable to me that Prudential could be held liable for any loss under the 
Aviva plan under section 8.2.1.
If Prudential provided no advice about alternatives or his existing Aviva plan and there was 
also no change of employment for Mr H, as mentioned in 8.2.2 above. Then there wasnt 
anything that would have necessarily triggered him to review the entirety of his pension 
arrangements. Particularly if, as he must have been, Mr H was mindful to increase his 
pension provision at the time and Prudentials attendance at his school to talk about the in-
house AVC provided a convenient and easy way to accomplish this.  
And even if Prudential had said the in-house option was likely to have lower charges than 
most FSAVCs, that wouldnt necessarily have made Mr H question the advice hed received 
back in 1992 or compared the two arrangements. And, even if he had made a comparison, 
that doesnt mean that he should have realised there was a problem with what Aviva had or 
hadnt told him when he took the FSAVC out six years before. As he continued the FSAVC contributions I think it is reasonable to conclude that he was still reliant on Avivas advice 
and the causal link to it hadnt been broken. 
That means I think it is fair that Aviva considers the whole period over which Mr H made 
contributions to the FSAVC in the redress calculation.
Putting things right
I think that if Aviva had provided Mr H with the full information it should have done in
1992, he would have most likely started making contributions to his employers in-house 
AVC scheme.
Aviva must complete a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators review 
guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Aviva must calculate its redress from when Mr H 
started paying into his FSAVC in 1992 until he stopped paying into it in 2015. The calculation 
should not be stopped at 1998.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK and Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 
As 25% of the loss would be tax free and 75% would have been taxed according to his 
income tax rate in retirement. Mr H has confirmed he is retired and is a basic rate taxpayer. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. As this 
is only a notional deduction Mr H wont be able to claim anything back from HMRC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to calculate and pay the compensation as set out 
in the steps above. 
    Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman