DRN-4484295
The complaint
Mr D complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected a claim he made under sections 
75 and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
In 2020, Mr D agreed to purchase a solar panel and battery system (the system). He paid 
for it using a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was repayable over 120 months with 
the initial payment deferred for 12 months. 
In 2022, a claims management company (the CMC) made a claim on Mr Ds behalf to 
Ikano claiming that the system had been misrepresented to Mr D as being self-funding, in 
that the benefits of the system would cover the loan repayments. It also claimed the 
relationship between Ikano and Mr D was unfair on him. 
Ikano rejected the claim. It said there was no misrepresentation and that its relationship with 
Mr D was not unfair on him. It pointed to the sales documents which set out the expected 
benefits of the system, which were much less than the loan repayments. 
Unhappy with this, the CMC made a complaint on Mr Ds behalf. Ikano rejected this, so the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was asked to look at what happened. 
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr D did not accept this. The 
CMC said the investigator hadnt taken sufficient account of Mr and Mrs Ds recollections of 
what had happened. So, Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
I have the power to make a decision on this complaint about Ikanos response to a claim 
under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 means that Ikano can be held liable for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the supplier when selling the system to Mr D. Section 140 allows the courts to 
decide whether the relationship between Ikano and Mr D is unfair on him  including looking 
at how the supplier sold the system (when the Act says it was acting as Ikanos agent). So 
Ive taken particular account of this when making my decision. 
The sales meeting
Mr D was not present at the sales meeting. He says that his wife was at the meeting and 
passed information about the system onto Mr D. Im satisfied that information included what 
was discussed and the sales documents, given that Mr D signed these. 
When deciding whether there was a misrepresentation I must think about all the evidence  
both Mrs Ds recollection of what she was told and what is shown on the sales paperwork. 
In this case Mrs D recalls being told the benefits of the system would cover the loan 
repayments and that she later told Mr D this. But her recollection is undermined by:
The letter of claim referring to benefits from the Feed-In Tariff, a scheme which was 
not available at the time of sale and is not mentioned in the sales documents.
The sales documents showing that the benefits of the system would solely come 
from savings, which were estimated to be between £478.96 to £580.39 in the first 
year, which is much less than the annual loan repayments. 
I think the sales documents are clear in what the benefits of the system are estimated to be. 
And comparing this to the loan repayments shown on the credit agreement, it is clear that 
the estimated benefits would not cover the loan repayments. 
With this in mind, I am not persuaded that it is likely that Mrs D was told the system would be 
self-funding in this way. As such, I do not think Ikano acted unreasonably when it said there 
was no misrepresentation. 
It may be that Mrs D was told the system would be self-funding over time, since it is often the 
case that the benefits of a solar panel system over its lifetime will exceed its purchase price. 
 The fairness of the relationship between Ikano and Mr D
I am not persuaded there was a misrepresentation by the supplier which would make the 
relationship between Ikano and Mr D unfair on him. And Ive not seen anything else that 
makes me think the relationship was unfair. For example, it paid no commission to the 
supplier. 
So, I do not think Ikano acted unreasonably when it said its relationship with Mr D was not 
unfair on him. 
Summary of my findings
I do not think there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier. 
Nor do I think the relationship between Ikano and Mr D was unfair on him. 
So, in my opinion, Ikano has not done anything wrong by rejecting Mr Ds claim. 
A note on the Smart Export Guarantee
The Smart Export Guarantee is a scheme that replaced the FIT scheme. It allows people 
with a solar panel system to be paid for any electricity that is exported to the National Grid. If 
Mr and Mrs D have not signed up for the Smart Export Guarantee, they may wish to do so, 
since this will increase the benefit they receive from the system. 
More information about the Smart Export Guarantee is available on the gov.uk website:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/smart-export-guarantee-seg-earn-
money-for-exporting-the-renewable-electricity-you-have-generated My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman