DRN-3705753
The complaint
Mrs O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt treated her fairly in relation to a loan. In 
particular, HSBC said she had to wait 40 days for an interest refund after she repaid the 
loan, and then said she didnt meet criteria for the refund.
What happened
Mrs O took out a loan with HSBC in 2016. HSBC offered a reward (a refund of part of the 
interest) if the loan is repaid in accordance with the scheduled payments. In mid-2021 Mrs O 
repaid the loan and asked about the reward. HSBC told Mrs O she isnt eligible for the 
reward as she repaid the loan early.
Our investigator said Mrs O made an overpayment in May 2021 which meant her loan was 
repaid early. Our investigator said Mrs O had correct information about the criteria for the 
reward before she made the overpayment. She said HSBC had given Mrs O incorrect 
information after this, but its offer of £100 for the inconvenience this caused was fair.
Mrs O didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC says Mrs O didnt meet criteria for the repayment reward because she made 
overpayments in May 2021. This resulted in the loan being repaid early.
HSBC gave Mrs O incorrect information about whether she was still eligible for the 
repayment reward after shed made the overpayments. This caused her upset and 
inconvenience, and I think its right that HSBC offered compensation. But I havent seen 
evidence that Mrs O checked with HSBC before making the overpayments that shed still be 
eligible for the repayment reward, or that HSBC misled her about this before she made the 
payment. 
HSBC sent information with the loan agreement, which said we will pay a cashback equal to 
10% of the interest chargedas long as you have made all your repayments on time and do 
not repay the loan, or part of it, early.
Mrs O called HSBC on 4 May 2021. HSBC provided call recordings. Mrs O was concerned 
that a direct debit wasnt working as it should and if this would affect her credit file. She didnt 
ask about making overpayments, or how this would affect her eligibility for the repayment 
reward.
In her complaint Mrs O says she asked about the reward when she was at the point of the 
last repayment. She had numerous conversations following this, but HSBC didnt tell her the 
overpayment meant she was in danger of losing the reward. But, as I said, these discussions 
were after Mrs O had made the overpayments.
Mrs O made overpayments which resulted in the loan being repaid early. This meant she 
didnt qualify for the interest refund and HSBC should have told her this when she asked 
about the reward. But even if it had given her correct information at that time this wouldnt 
have meant Mrs O was entitled to the reward. It would though have saved her unnecessary 
trouble and inconvenience. Mrs O chased HSBC for the payment, she says her calls were 
put on hold for long periods and she was given inconsistent information.
Putting things right
HSBC offered compensation of £100 for the inconvenience caused by its error  failing to tell 
Mrs O she didnt qualify for the reward payment. I appreciate that Mrs O will be disappointed, 
but I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £100 to Mrs O. It can deduct any 
amounts it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman