DRN-3800405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down a storm
claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A raised a claim on their home insurance policy with AXA for damage to an
outbuilding. They said the damage was caused by high winds during a storm which had
blown off the roof of the outbuilding and caused some structural damage.
AXA said it couldnt be shown that the storm was the primary or effective cause of the
damage to the outbuilding. Rather, AXA said the outbuilding hadnt been installed correctly;
it considered the outbuilding was in an exposed area and so needed a storm kit installed in
line with the manufacturers guidelines. So, AXA applied a policy exclusion for faulty
workmanship to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with AXAs response and referred the matter to our service. In
summary they said:
Neither the manufacturer nor installer had recommended the storm kit when they
bought the outbuilding.
None of the storm kit components attach to the roof, and so the storm wouldve
caused the damage being claimed for in any event.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They
concluded that on balance, the outbuilding was in an exposed area and so a storm kit
shouldve been fitted. They noted that in addition to the roof, there was structural damage
which may have been prevented by a storm kit. They couldnt conclude the storm was the 
main cause of the damage and they said AXA had acted fairly in turning down the claim.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans
decision. They added:
The initial storm event didnt compromise the integrity of the structure  this
happened in the following days after the roof had been blown off.
That having a storm kit fitted or not is irrelevant; the wind got under the veranda 
and ripped off the roof as it was one panel covering the whole outbuilding.
There are trees and structures which cover three sides of their property.
The complaint was passed to me and on 27 October 2022 I issued a provisional decision 
where I concluded that I intended to reach a different outcome to our investigator. Ive 
repeated an extract below:
My role is to decide whether AXAs decision to turn down the claim was fair and reasonable
in the circumstances.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs As policy. Whilst this does cover
storm damage, it doesnt exclude faulty workmanship. And I cant see a more general
exclusion for faulty workmanship either. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for AXA to rely on an
exclusion which isnt in Mr and Mrs As policy terms to turn down the claim.
I presented this finding to AXA and in response it accepted there wasnt an exclusion for
faulty workmanship. But it also said that the surveyors notes indicated there werent storm
conditions at the time Mr and Mrs A claimed. And that local weather records showed a
maximum wind speed of 51mph on the day of the claim.
AXA referred to the policy definition of storm which states,
A period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph)*
*Equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale.
AXA accepted that it wasnt ideal this hadnt been brought to Mr and Mrs As attention when
the claim was turned down. So, it offered to compensate Mr and Mrs A for mismanaging
their expectations.
In order for there to be a valid claim, it must be shown that an insured event took place  in
this case a storm. I think the definition of storm in Mr and Mrs As policy is clear, so it needs
to be shown that the wind speeds were at least 55mph on the day they claimed the
outbuilding was damaged.
Im aware that weather records can vary based on a propertys circumstance or location. So,
I requested a report from an additional weather record system to see if any wind speeds of
at least 55mph were recorded. This additional report also recorded a maximum wind speed
of 51mph on the day of the claim.
Therefore, I am unable to conclude there were storm conditions as defined in Mr and Mrs As
policy which would require AXA to engage with the claim.
As I find no reasonable basis for the claim to succeed in any event, I accept that whilst AXA
shouldve told Mr and Mrs A that it didnt think there were storm conditions, ultimately, this
didnt impact on its decision to turn down the claim.
Therefore, I agree that AXA should compensate Mr and Mrs A for mismanaging their
expectations around the claim outcome. And I find a payment of £150 to be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
Developments
AXA accepted my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They provided weather data 
from their local area which they said showed storm conditions on the date of the loss, and in 
the following days.
Mr and Mrs A also provided comments on our services overall approach to storm claims and 
said they believed this was relevant to their claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my mind about what Ive seen. Ill 
explain why below.
Ive focused on the weather conditions on the date of loss and not in the following days. This 
is because the structure Mr and Mrs A are claiming for was already damaged by then. So, 
any consequential damage by winds that could be classed as storm force wouldnt be the 
predominant cause of the damage but rather, wouldve highlighted damage from the date of 
the loss.
Mr and Mrs A have set out our services approach to storm complaints from our website and 
shown why they think their claim should succeed. But our approach also states: Well look 
at the policy wording tooSometimes well look at reports from more than one weather 
station to understand what sort of conditions the customers property is likely to have 
experienced.
The key issue in this complaint is that Mr and Mrs As policy does define storm as I set out 
above, so there is a required wind speed for the policy to engage.
Ive considered the weather records Mr and Mrs A provided. These do show wind speeds in 
the surrounding areas which meet the policy definition of a storm. Ive weighed this up 
carefully against the two weather reports Ive already seen (which indicated a maximum gust 
of 51mph). Having done so, Im not persuaded that the weather data provided by 
Mr and Mrs A gives me a more accurate picture of the wind speeds at their property than 
what Ive already seen.
I do accept that the wind speeds on the date in question are borderline, but as Im not 
satisfied the policys storm definition was met, it would be unreasonable for me to require 
AXA to pay the claim.
Therefore, having reconsidered everything, my position remains that I find no reasonable 
basis for the claim to succeed in any event.
Our service doesnt punish either party for mistakes made during a claim. So, whilst AXA 
accepts it shouldve told Mr and Mrs A about its no storm concerns earlier, ultimately, I find 
its acted reasonably in turning down the claim. So, Im satisfied that the compensation Ive 
recommended fairly reflects the impact to Mr and Mrs A in the circumstances.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint in part.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Mrs A and Mr A £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman