DRN-2826992
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limited, which was their home insurer at 
the time they had an oil leak. They believe it handled their claim badly, causing costs to 
increase which has then affected their policy premium.
For completeness, Mr and Mrs As initial complaint was wider than this. However, due to 
further payments being made by Ageas, those issues have been resolved. The only part of 
the complaint the parties have asked for a decision on is in respect of the claim costs 
affecting current and future premiums.
What happened
There was an oil leak at Mr and Mrs As home in October 2017. When Mr and Mrs A made a 
claim a specialist company was appointed, remedial works were undertaken to deal with 
contaminants, and a scope of reinstatement works was agreed. It was felt, at this time, that 
most of the kitchen could be re-used. The expected reinstatement cost for the claim as at 
March 2018, was £63,000.
In May 2018 it was decided the kitchen would have to be replaced. Ageas loss adjuster said 
this was because it couldnt just replace the worst affected units. Mr and Mrs A say it 
became necessary to replace the kitchen because when work was done the kitchen wasnt 
removed to storage and wasnt protected properly, so it was contaminated when the affected 
flooring was dug up. The loss adjuster determined that the total cost of reinstatement work 
would now likely be around £85,000. 
The kitchen began to be re-fitted in November 2018. Mr and Mrs A quickly noted issues  
theyd been misled into agreeing a design change and fitting was being carried out poorly. 
The contractors walked off site and Ageas agreed to investigate the installation. Following 
the involvement of a surveyor Ageas accepted the kitchen was not like the one Mr and Mrs A 
had before and that it was neither fit for use or purpose. In June 2019, following 
consideration of Mr and Mrs As quotes, Ageas paid them around £40,000 so they could 
reinstate the kitchen. Mr and Mrs A accepted the settlement. 
In summer 2018 Mr and Mrs A had noted their policy premium increased after their policy 
had renewed. Their insurance intermediary, responsible for renewing cover and setting 
premiums (which was not Ageas), agreed a reduction to the premium. The renewed policy 
wasnt underwritten by Ageas. Mr and Mrs A had paid around £250 for cover in 2018, the 
amended premium at renewal in 2018 was around £550.
In 2019 the insurance intermediary wouldnt renew the policy. Mr and Mrs A had to look 
elsewhere. Whilst the claim was now concluded, they found getting cover difficult. Whilst 
cover was eventually found (via a broker) this was at a much higher premium - around 
£1,200. The enquiries they undertook whilst trying to find cover caused them to believe the 
difficulties they were now having, and the premium they were now having to pay, were the 
result of the total claim cost of over £125,000. They felt this was unfair given it was Ageas 
poor claim handling that had caused the claim costs to reach such a level. When Ageas 
wasnt minded to do anything about it, they brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator wasnt minded to make Ageas do anything. She said Ageas wasnt 
responsible for what other insurers charged, and that how an insurer priced its policies 
wasnt something this service could get involved with. Mr and Mrs A asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
I felt that Ageas had handled the claim poorly  and that this had likely caused the premium 
which Mr and Mrs A were now being charged for cover to increase. But I explained that 
I couldnt be sure about by how much it had increased. I proposed that Ageas pay £1,500 
compensation to Mr and Mrs A. My findings were:
For me, the starting point is that Ageas appointed experts view on the likely reinstatement 
cost, after preliminary investigations were done and costs were assessed, was £63,000. 
That figure would never be set in stone and some reasonable amendments might occur. 
But the next key thing is that Ageas, without any real question or objection, agreed the whole 
kitchen needed replacing. This increased the likely costs by over £20,000. I think its fair to 
say that it likely increased the duration of the work (and the cost of the labour) too. Theres a 
difference of opinion as to why this happened. I dont find the loss adjusters explanation 
very likely. Having seen photos of the early stages of the work, I think Mr and Mrs As 
version of events is most likely  that the old kitchen wasnt protected or stored properly 
which meant it became damaged and/or contaminated. I think that if Ageas had taken more 
care in the early stages and, given the initial reports of the quite limited area affected by the 
leak, this additional work, and its associated cost, would likely have been avoided. 
The third important factor for me is the poor quality of workmanship by Ageas when 
replacing the kitchen. Again this prolonged the claim overall and, given the cash settlement 
that was then paid to Mr and Mrs A, increased the claim cost yet further by £40,000.
During the course of the works Ageas was also paying Mr and Mrs A a disturbance 
allowance. The pro-longed claim meant Ageas ultimately paid more to Mr and Mrs A than it 
would have had the delays not occurred.
So the cost of the claim more than doubled due to Ageas failures. But more than that, 
Ageas failures pushed the overall claim cost to well above £100,000. This can be a key risk 
marker for insurers. In short, if a loss like that can occur once, its likely (many insurers will 
think) that it could happen again. Some insurers will not want to expose themselves to such 
a risk, others will, but will factor the increased likelihood of such a loss (to them) happening 
again into the premium they charge for cover. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs A will likely have 
been affected by their claim exceeding £100,000.
However, the pricing methodology applied by insurers is complex. It isnt possible for me to 
say for sure that the price of cover Mr and Mrs A are now seeing is caused only by the final 
value of their claim. Even if they were able to provide something from their broker which said 
it could only place cover with their current insurer, which it believed to be due to the cost of 
the claim  Id have to bear in mind that their broker may not have access to the whole 
market, nor would be privy to the pricing methods applied by the insurer it was able to find. 
In my experience, even if that insurer were approached directly, and it was prepared to 
share its confidential pricing material with us, it could still likely be hard to determine the 
precise impact the increased cost of the claim had on the premium, or what the premium 
would have been if the claim had cost less. 
I also have to bear in mind that the cover Mr and Mrs A now have is actually more extensive 
than that which they had before. Unlike the Ageas policy, they have unlimited cover for 
buildings and contents, with a limit of £75,000 for items like jewellery. The current policy also offers cover for any damage caused unless excluded (often referred to as all risks)  so the 
cover is wider than the previous policy which offered cover where damage is caused by 
certain events. Setting the claim cost aside, policies which are unlimited and cover any 
damage unless excluded, are generally priced at the more expensive end of the insurance 
market. These may not have been benefits Mr and Mrs A would have chosen if more of the 
insurance market had been open to them, but I cant reasonably ignore the fact that whilst 
theyre paying more, theyre getting more.
In short, I think its reasonable to say that but for Ageas failures Mr and Mrs A would likely 
not have to pay as much for home insurance as they are now doing, but its impossible to 
calculate exactly what premium they shouldve been paying but for Ageas failings. I then 
have to think about what is fair. I think a compensation payment of £1,500 would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. This is not an insubstantial sum and will go some way 
to off-setting the increased cost of premiums. It isnt enough to make it as though the price 
for cover is no more than that charged in 2017 or even 2018. But a payment of that 
magnitude wouldnt be reasonable because Im not satisfied that all of the increased cost 
Mr and Mrs A are now paying for their home insurance cover is due to the increased claim 
costs caused by Ageas failures.
Mr and Mrs A said they welcomed my assessment of Ageas poor handling of their claim, 
and the acknowledgment that this had caused them an increase in premiums. But they said 
they felt the compensation didnt go far enough to off-set those extra costs. They 
emphasised that they wouldnt have selected their current policy if theyd had another 
choice, and theyre worried about the high excess that comes with that policy, in the event 
they have to claim again. They said, given all their extra costs, in their view, have been 
caused by Ageas failures during the claim, its unfair for them to bear any part of them. They 
also provided a summary of their cost for cover in recent years. Mr and Mrs A said it wouldnt 
actually be difficult to know what they should have paid  that could be calculated by referral 
to their previous premiums, with assistance from the arranging insurer if necessary. 
Mr and Mrs A said they were now also concerned that there might be other costs and losses 
in addition to their increased premium. They said they were currently selling their home and 
were worried the sale price would be affected due to the increased cost of this incident and 
its resultant effect on their premiums.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A are now worried about other potential costs and losses in 
addition to those resulting from their increased premium. But their complaint about losses 
resulting from Ageas poor claim handling specifically only referenced their increased 
premium. So that is the aspect Ageas responded to and which has been considered by this 
service. I cant, under this complaint, consider or make findings about other possible costs 
and losses that havent happened yet, may or may not happen in the future, and a complaint 
about which Ageas has not yet had chance to consider.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A think that its easy to know what their premium would have 
been. But Im not persuaded that is the case. As I said provisionally, the pricing of premiums 
is complex and many factors are taken into account by different insurers. Sometimes even 
factors that policyholders dont agree are really issues for them/their area. For Mr and Mrs A 
there is also the fact that, even without the significant failures Im satisfied Ageas caused, 
and the substantial impact these had on Mr and Mrs As claim; they still had a high value 
claim for leaking oil. Such a claim was always going to have an impact on their premium.I fully understand that with facing a yearly premium of over £1,000 for five years following the 
loss, total compensation of £1,500 feels insufficient to Mr and Mrs A. But, having reviewed 
everything, I do think this is a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs A £1,500 compensation to reflect the fact they are now 
paying more for cover than they should be because of the failures in its handling of their oil 
leak claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman