DRN-3028891
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a Lloyds 
Bank PLC personal loan. To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds.
Im aware that Mrs R took out quite a few similar loans at around that time and that Lloyds 
has already agreed to settle several complaints in relation to these. 
To be clear then, in this decision, Im addressing Mrs Rs complaint about a personal loan for 
£1,800 taken out in December 1995. The reference number of this loan ended in the 
numbers 0501. It seems the loan was closed completely, in 1996.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Mrs R applied for a loan and was sold a single premium PPI policy at the same time. This 
type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front in one single payment. Both the 
loan and PPI part of the loan ran over a period of 24 months, but because of the passage of 
time, I cant say what the PPI premium  or the interest charged on it  actually cost. Ive had 
to use a calculation to help me with this (based on the loan being for £1,800).
Neither Mrs R nor Lloyds are able to tell us much about the sale or provide any original sale 
materials. This isnt unreasonable given how long ago it was. Nevertheless, weve seen quite 
a few similar complaints to this one, and as a consequence we know about how the sales 
usually worked. 
I think its likely that there would have been a discussion between the parties about the loan 
and whether Mrs R wanted to have PPI with it. Based on that discussion, I think Mrs R would 
have then been given a loan agreement, to check and sign, which included some figures 
about the costs. 
In the absence of the original documents, Lloyds sent me an example of a credit agreement 
it said would have been used during this sale. The agreement reflects what Ive described 
above and the PPI probably came under a heading which said something like OPTIONAL 
LOAN PROTECTION. There were yes and no options for the PPI and I think Mrs R would 
have ticked the yes option, because we now know such a policy was added. On balance, I 
think its more likely she provided her consent.
 
Lloyds says this was probably an advised sale, so its responsibility included seeing that the 
PPI was suitable for Mrs Rs circumstances. Overall, I think it was suitable.
This is because I think Mrs R was eligible for the cover and I dont think shed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. She told us 
she had some sickness protection already through her job, implying she didnt need any PPI. 
I can fully understand why shes told us this, but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean she 
didnt have a use for the PPI policy. It could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of 
her being unable to work through illness or losing her job completely and this would have 
been in addition to any other means she already had in place.
The loan and the PPI policy both ran for the same term lengths and if she cashed it in early, 
Mrs R would have received part of the PPI cost back. This may have been a non-
proportionate sum in comparison with how long into the loan period she was at that 
particular time. So, in effect, she may have had to pay some charges for cashing in early.
However, this was only her second loan in what eventually became a series of more lending 
in subsequent years. She still had loan number 1 outstanding, so at the point of this loan 
(0501) there was nothing suggesting paying it off early was likely. 
Overall, I dont think the PPI recommendation was unreasonable.
I obviously cant say that Mrs R was told everything she should have been told. However, 
the cost of the PPI would have probably been set out on the agreement Mrs R signed. Whilst 
this probably included the loan cost, the cost of the PPI and the sum of these two amounts, 
we do see some cases from that time period where the interest charged on the PPI element 
wasnt very clear. 
However, in her case, I think any interest on the PPI part of her loan would have been a 
fairly moderate sum, substantially less than £50, and unlikely to have changed Mrs Rs 
overall view about the worth of having PPI with her loan. In short, whilst I accept Lloyds may 
well have done better at explaining everything to her, the policy was sufficiently close to what 
she thought she was getting at the point of sale. And in those circumstances, I think that she 
would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale part of 
the complaint. 
my decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint or award any compensation for the mis-sale.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman