DRN-4061231
The complaint
Mr M complains about the interest rate charged on his mortgage with Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited. He says that Kensington didnt reduce the interest rate when the Bank of 
England base rate fell, but increased it when base rate rose. 
What happened
Mr M borrowed around £142,000 on interest only terms over 25 years. He took an initial 
fixed interest rate of 6.54%. After two years, his mortgage reverted to Kensingtons standard 
variable rate (SVR), plus a premium of 1.35% reflecting past financial difficulties.
The terms and conditions say that the SVR will always be no more than 3%, and no less 
than 1%, above LIBOR. This means the interest rate on Mr Ms mortgage is limited to 4.35% 
above LIBOR (being the 3% maximum for the general SVR in the terms and conditions, plus 
the 1.35% premium set out in his mortgage offer).
Mr M said that he expected his interest rate to reduce in 2020 when the Bank of England 
reduced base rate to 0.1%. When his interest rate didnt fall, he contacted Kensington, and 
was told his rate was linked to LIBOR. Mr M said that he wasnt aware of this, and had never 
been made aware of the link to LIBOR. He asked Kensington to show the link with LIBOR, 
and to explain why his rate hadnt changed. He said there was no mention of LIBOR in his 
mortgage offer.
Kensington said that Mr Ms mortgage offer said that his interest rate was the SVR plus a 
margin of 1.35%. And it said the SVR was linked to LIBOR  subject to a floor of 1% above 
LIBOR and a ceiling of 3% above LIBOR  and that this was set out in the terms and 
conditions. It said it reviewed the LIBOR rate every three months, and made any necessary 
changes to Mr Ms interest rate at that time. It said that around the time Mr M first raised this 
issue, in 2020, his interest rate was 4.4% - which was 0.05% LIBOR plus 3% to give an SVR 
of 3.05%, plus the 1.35% margin above the SVR set out in Mr Ms mortgage offer.
Mr M referred his complaint to us. We initially dealt with the question of whether his 
complaint was in time. I issued a decision setting out that we could consider the fairness of 
interest charged for six years prior to his complaint being made. A complaint about the 
fairness of interest charged before that would be out of time. But in considering the fairness 
of interest charged in the last six years, we would need to look at all the circumstances of the 
case  including things that happened more than six years ago to the extent that they were 
relevant to the fairness of interest charged within the last six years. 
One of our investigators then considered the merits of Mr Ms complaint. She didnt uphold it, 
so Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said Kensington had 
never explained how it calculated his interest rate or why it had varied as it had over the 
years. He said that Kensington hadnt made it clear in his offer or terms and conditions how 
the rate would be set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms mortgage offer says
we are prepared to offer you a mortgage loan (Offer) on the terms set out below 
and in our General Mortgage Conditions Booklet 2004 1st Edition.

The interest rate is a fixed rate of 6.54% for 24 months following the end of the month 
of completion followed by Kensingtons standard variable rate currently 5.80% plus 
1.35% currently 7.15%.
The terms of this mortgage reflect past or present financial difficulties.
The General Mortgage Conditions Booklet 2004 1st Edition says
We may change the variable rate at any time in our absolute discretion whenever we 
want (including before any advance is released), provided that the changed rate is 
never less than 1% or more than 3% above LIBOR rate
I think this is clear  the mortgage offer says that Kensington will charge Mr M the SVR plus 
1.35%, and the terms and conditions booklet says the SVR will be between 1% and 3% 
above LIBOR. Putting those together, Mr Ms interest rate will always be between 2.35% and 
4.35% above LIBOR. The mortgage conditions say that the variable rate  the SVR  will 
not be more than 3% above LIBOR, and doesnt prevent the offer adding an additional 
margin to the SVR when setting the rate charged to Mr M.
Mr M says that the offer wording isnt clear. He says that the use of the word currently twice 
suggests that the margin of 1.35% was variable as well as the variable rate  the offer 
doesnt say that the margin is fixed. He says difficulties hes had getting Kensington staff to 
explain what his interest rate is show that the offer isnt clearly worded. Ive considered what 
Mr M says about this. I think the offer says that, from the end of the fixed rate, his mortgage 
would be on a variable rate. The variable rate would be made up of Kensingtons SVR, 
which at the time of the offer (currently) was 5.8% plus 1.35%, meaning the interest rate 
would be at that time (currently) 7.15%. The interest rate after the fixed rate is made up of 
two elements:
Kensingtons standard variable rate currently 5.8%
Plus 1.35%
giving a total  at that time (currently) but subject to change  of 7.15%.
I dont think this suggests that the margin is variable; rather, the total rate is variable 
because it is based in part on the SVR. 
Mr M also says that more recently Kensington has issued mortgage terms and conditions 
worded in a different way. But I dont think whether it has changed how it describes its 
mortgages now invalidates how it did so in the past.
Mr M says that the mortgage offer doesnt mention LIBOR. And it doesnt. But the terms and conditions do set out the relationship between the SVR and LIBOR, and the mortgage offer 
says that the terms and conditions as well as the offer is applicable to Mr Ms mortgage. As a 
mortgage is such an important commitment, its reasonable to expect borrowers to have 
read both the offer and the terms and conditions before agreeing to it, and Im satisfied both 
form part of Mr Ms agreement with Kensington. The offer sets out that Mr M will be charged 
the variable rate plus a margin, and the terms and conditions set out what the variable rate is 
 including its relationship to LIBOR.
Mr M also questions why there is a 1.35% margin on the SVR. When he took his mortgage 
out, Kensington offered mortgages to borrowers who had experienced financial difficulty  
these were known as sub-prime mortgages at the time. Because such a mortgage presents 
more risk to the lender, the interest rate was generally higher. Kensingtons standard 
mortgages were lent at the SVR. But mortgages such as this one (which  as the offer says 
 reflects past or present financial difficulties) came with an extra premium on the interest 
rate. In Mr Ms case, the extra premium was 1.35%.  
As Mr Ms mortgage was taken out many years ago, I cant consider whether it was fair for 
Kensington to have included the premium. But Im satisfied that the interest rate has 
operated in line with what the offer says, and Mr M has in fact been charged the SVR plus 
1.35%. 
Mr M has referred to a set of explanatory notes included with his mortgage statements some 
years ago. The notes say
If your original mortgage offer was issued on or after 1 June 2006, your interest rate 
may be based on BBR (Bank of England base rate). Please refer to the terms and 
conditions of your mortgage for further information regarding interest rate charging.
Mr M says this is evidence that his mortgage  which was taken out later in 2006  should 
be linked to Bank of England base rate not LIBOR, and that he has therefore been 
overcharged. He says that because the notes say that mortgages may be based on base 
rate, that means they may not be based on LIBOR. 
But I dont agree about that. This is a general explanatory leaflet; its not part of the contract 
between Mr M and Kensington. It was issued many years after the mortgage was taken out, 
so isnt relevant to what the terms and conditions say or what they mean.
And in any case it says mortgages issued after 1 June 2006 may  not will be or must 
be  linked to base rate. Equally, they may not. And so that does not preclude them being 
based on LIBOR if they are not based on base rate. It also refers borrowers to their own 
specific mortgage terms and conditions, and as Ive said above in Mr Ms case the terms 
make clear that Mr Ms mortgage was linked to LIBOR not base rate.
Mr M also says that its industry standard to link to base rate rather than LIBOR. But thats 
not correct. At the time his mortgage was taken out and the terms and conditions set, some 
mortgages were directly linked to base rate, some were directly linked to LIBOR and many 
were set based on fixed rates or the lenders own variable rate. 
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied that Mr Ms mortgage should have been charged at 
1.35% above the SVR. Having reviewed the charges Kensington has applied Im also 
satisfied that it has in fact charged this amount. While the SVR has varied over time, it has 
always remained within the range of 1% to 3% above LIBOR as set out in the terms and 
conditions. Kensington has explained how it has varied the SVR within those parameters 
over time as its own funding costs have changed. Im therefore satisfied that the terms of Mr Ms mortgage are clear, that interest has been 
charged fairly in line with those terms, and that the interest charged to Mr M within the period 
I can consider has been set fairly. I dont therefore uphold this complaint.
Mr M has also raised some concerns about the rate hes being charged by his new mortgage 
lender, after Kensington transferred the mortgage. Ive not considered that as part of this 
complaint, since it has happened since Mr M complained and is the responsibility of the new 
lender.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman