DRN-4389284
Complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW FS) unfairly entered into 
a hire purchase agreement with him. 
Hes said that his income exceeded his expenditure and therefore the monthly payments to 
this agreement were unaffordable. 
Background
In March 2019, BMW FS provided Mr W with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £24,627.00. Mr W didnt pay a deposit and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW FS for the entire £24,627.00. 
The loan had interest and charges of £8,668.05 and a 48-month term. This meant that the 
total amount to be repaid of £33,295.05 was due to be repaid in 47 monthly instalments of 
£424.07 and an optional final repayment of £13,363.76.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that BMW FS 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ws complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
BMW FS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that BMW FS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr W before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
BMW FS says it agreed to this application after Mr W provided details of his employment 
and it looked at the way hed managed payments on previous agreement. It says it also 
carried out credit searches on Mr W which had shown he had no previous difficulties with 
credit, that he had a joint mortgage and two unsecured loans with monthly repayments of 
£22 and £87 respectively.   
In BMW FSs view, when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ws living 
expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement 
were affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr W says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr W and BMW FS have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator Im not persuaded that the 
checks BMW FS carried out did go far enough. In my view, it wasnt reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Ws income and living costs given the monthly payment required and the 
length of time the agreement was due to run for. 
And I think that this ought to have led to BMW FS taking further steps to verify Mr Ws 
income and actual living costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on 
Mr Ws income and actual living costs would have made a difference to BMW FS decision to 
lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr W has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments 
due under this agreement. I accept its possible that Mr Ws actual circumstances at the time 
might have been worse than what the information hes provided shows. 
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that BMW FS could 
possibly be expected to have known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable, 
bearing in mind that the information provided now doesnt clearly show that this is the case. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that       
BMW FS checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr W did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped BMW FS from providing these funds, or entering into this hire purchase agreement 
with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that BMW FS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr W. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman