DRN-2910620
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc didnt allow the transfer of a large sum of money from 
his savings account to his current account, via online or telephone banking. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr E attempted an internal transfer of £85,000 from his Santander 
savings account to his current account, using online banking. He initially transferred £100 to 
check the transfer would go through, and it did. But when he tried to transfer the remaining 
£84,900, it was declined, and he was instructed to call Santander instead. When he called 
as instructed, his request was declined again, and Santander said hed need to visit a 
branch, or that he could try putting through several transfers for smaller amounts. 
Mr E said hed try and carry out the smaller transfers, which he did, successfully transferring 
the £84,900 over four separate transactions between 24 and 28 December 2020. But he 
remained unhappy that Santander had restricted his access to his own money; and that he 
was being encouraged visit a branch in a tier 4 Covid area, so he complained. 
Santander considered Mr Es complaint. They said the account limits did not allow for 
transfers of this size to be processed online. They said that had Mr E called from his own 
phone, the transfer could have been processed. But as he was calling from his wifes phone, 
and the phone number was linked to her account, their system automatically generated 
security questions for his wife, and this could not be overridden. They said the only 
remaining option was for him to visit a branch or attempt to put through multiple smaller 
transactions online. 
Unhappy with this, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He was also unhappy that 
Santander said theyd close his complaint once it came to us, and was unhappy they 
wouldnt transfer the complaint to our service for him. 
An investigator considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that he 
appreciated it wouldve been frustrating for Mr E not to be able to carry out his request in the 
way he wanted to. But he felt it was reasonable for Santander to put additional security 
measures in place when it came to larger online transaction requests. He also thought it was 
reasonable for Santander to decline the request over the phone; as Mr E didnt call from his 
own phone, and they were therefore unable to complete relevant security checks. And while 
he accepted it wouldve been difficult for Mr E to visit his local branch, he thought Santander 
had provided a suitable alternative, in suggesting he try putting through several smaller 
transfer requests. So he didnt think they needed to do anything further. 
But Mr E remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr E initially attempted to transfer the remaining £84,900 online, he was directed to 
call Santander, as the online system would not allow the transfer. The terms of Mr Es 
account state that you can make single payments online of up to £25,000 from your current 
account for free. The maximum amount you can make in payments daily is £100,000. So, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Santander to block Mr Es transfer request for £84,900, as 
it was over and above the £25,000 single transaction limit on his account. 
When Mr E called Santander that day, he called from his wifes phone. Santander have 
explained that as this phone number was registered with them, but to Mr Es wifes account, 
not his, they were unable to bring up Mr Es credentials to complete security verification as a 
result. I appreciate Mr E has said his phone was broken at this time, and also that he was 
not able to visit another branch due to the tier 4 Covid restrictions in his area. But equally, 
this was a particularly large transaction, and I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander 
to refuse the request for such a large amount, given they were unable to complete the 
relevant security checks.
Having listened to the calls between Mr E and Santander, they did inform him that he could 
try and carry out a number of smaller transactions online in order to transfer the total 
amount. They suggested he attempt half the amount, then half again until it went through. 
Given that the account terms and conditions state that the maximum online transfer allowed 
at any one time online was £25,000, I think they couldve been more precise in letting Mr E 
know what his options were. But equally, it seems Mr E was able to find this information out 
himself and proceeded in carrying out the transfer across four separate transactions, so it 
doesnt appear that he suffered any loss as a result. 
Mr E was also unhappy that Santander wouldnt transfer his complaint to our service for him, 
and that they said they wouldnt keep his complaint open after it was transferred. 
Generally speaking, this service is unable to look at complaints about complaint handling 
itself, but it might be useful for me to direct Mr E to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, that set out how complaints should be dealt with. DISP 
1.6.2e sets out that once a business has had eight weeks to consider a complaint, it should 
send the customer a final response, which amongst other things e) informs the complainant 
that if he remains dissatisfied with the respondents response, he may now refer his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, Im satisfied it is for Mr E to bring his 
complaint to our service, and not for Santander to refer it for him. Its also usual practice for a 
business to close its file once this happens. I hope this clarification is helpful, should Mr E 
need to refer to it in the future. 
In summary, I appreciate it wouldve been frustrating for Mr E not to have been able to carry 
out the transfer initially. But Im satisfied the reasons for not being allowed to do so, either 
online or over the phone, were as a result of the terms and conditions of the account, and 
Santanders security measures, which are designed to protect customers. I also think 
Santander provided Mr E with an alternative way of carrying out the transfer, which he was 
able to do. So for these reasons, Im not asking Santander to do anything more in this 
regard. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Brad McIlquhamOmbudsman