DRN-3555747
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Makemson & Company Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to MCL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
From October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to MCL 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr T was 35 years old, married and with four dependent children. He was in good 
health and at that point he had accrued around 13 years of pension benefits with the 
BSPS.
Mr T earned £36,000 per year and Mrs T earned around £3,000. They lived in a 
home valued at approximately £170,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
around £138,000 with 31 years to run. Mr and Mrs T had no savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ts BSPS was approximately 
£157,437 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. The fact-find said Mr T 
expected to retire at 65, but MCL says he was considering early retirement.
MCL set out its advice in a suitability report on 27 November 2017. It advised him to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension plan. MCL said this would allow 
Mr T to achieve his objectives. Mr T accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal 
pension. In 2021 Mr T complained to MCL about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, MCL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr T had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MCL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, MCL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ts best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Our investigator referred in his view to the critical yield rate. The critical yield is essentially 
the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. It is 
one of several factors that can help determine whether transferring from a DB pension was 
financially viable. Ive considered some other factors too.
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Ts case, I think its important to point out 
that in its pension transfer report of 20 November 2017, MCL used the existing scheme 
(BSPS) for the critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. Whilst this doesnt fundamentally change the outcome of this complaint, MCL could have taken time to compare 
the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out.
I say this because several weeks before the suitability report, which was dated 27 November 
2017, BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a 
choice  to move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A 
newsletter had also been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members 
and more details of the BSPS2 were emerging at the time MCL produced its suitability 
report. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, using the 
existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr T the 
best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. 
Having said this, Ive noted MCL did make some estimated calculations about what the 
BSPS2 pension might pay at retirement and it seems Mr T was sent his personalised Time 
to Choose document on 30 November 2017. I think its also fair to say that despite some 
uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between the BSPS and 
PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS).
However, MCL ultimately told Mr T that whilst there were no guarantees, it thought its 
recommendation to transfer to a personal pension would outperform all the other options. 
But I dont see evidence to support such a statement. The pension transfer report itself, 
commissioned by MCL, said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of 
equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme at retirement the 
critical yield was 6.65% at the age of 65. If taking a reduced pension and tax-free lump sum, 
the critical yield was 5.93%. For an earlier retirement, at the age of 55 for instance, the 
critical yields were even higher  9.16% and 8.08% respectively.
So, in my view, it should have been obvious to MCL that these critical yield figures were high 
and probably not achievable. There would also be little point in transferring, from a financial 
perspective, only to achieve lower pension benefits in the long run. These figures were 
suggesting this was the case.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.7% per year for 29 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. And for early retirement at the age of 55, the discount 
rate was 4.6%. These rates strongly infer that reaching the critical yields above would be 
unlikely. This is particularly clear when applying the critical yields for a retirement at 55. MCL 
promoted this possibility throughout its advice to Mr T, but the discount rates suggest growth 
of around only half the critical yield rates was likely.Ive noted too, the attitude to risk (ATR) categorisation which MCL applied to Mr T was 
described as being adventurous, or a level of 5/7. This was evidently based on some 
questions about investment risk Mr T had answered on a form provided by a fund manager. 
But I think this ATR categorisation was too high for Mr T. And I dont think its likely Mr T 
really understood what being placed in this category could mean for his pension funds if he 
transferred out. Ive noted in the suitability report that there was a reference to Mr T having 
previous investment experience, but Ive seen no evidence of this. Everything Ive seen 
about Mr T suggests he was probably inexperienced in these matters. 
I say this because in the same report, for example, when addressing his capacity for loss, it 
also says he had sufficient other assets. However, from what Ive seen, this simply isnt 
right. In fact, the evidence from the time shows Mr T had previously entered an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement and had experienced difficulties with getting credit. This is more 
suggestive of him previously having money difficulties. And in 2017 he had no savings, had 
a relatively high loan-to-value mortgage with 31 years still to run, and was supporting four 
children. In my view, given everything Ive seen  including some comments apparently 
made by Mr T himself during the advice  demonstrates a lack of investment experience and 
only a modest capacity for loss. 
So I think the ATR applied to Mr T was unrealistic as it was apparently based wholly on 
answers to general questions about investments. I do accept that his relatively young age 
did provide some scope for pension investments to grow in the future by ironing out peaks 
and troughs in the years ahead, but I think Mr Ts ATR should have been moderated down 
as his obvious circumstances simply didnt appear to support what was mentioned on a form 
where the questions were both generalised and pre-formatted. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. So given 
everything Ive said above, around the middle regulators rate and close to the discount rate 
of 4.7% was much more like the growth that Mr T could realistically expect. This was well 
below the critical yields Ive described above  and even small percentage points, year-on-
year, can make meaningful differences to growth over time.
In short, MCL was not justified in saying Mr Ts pension outside the scheme could grow to an 
extent that made transferring worthwhile. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, MCL also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. MCL said the critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 was 5.45% per year (5.22% if taking a tax-free lump sum). These 
were still higher than the growth assumptions I think was reasonable. But these yields also 
related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and MCL itself says Mr T wouldnt 
have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect 
of charges and fees associated with a personal pension would have further reduced the 
likely growth. 
As a further comparison, I can also see that MCLs transfer analysis showed that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement 
at age 65, the funds required would be around £497,909  far in excess of Mr Ts current 
CETV. Even if I were to consider a comparison with buying an annuity to provide benefits of 
equal value assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at 
retirement, this still came in at £282,724 (age 65) and £254,841 (age 55). In my view, these 
costs provide a powerful indication of the real value Mr T would lose if he transferred out to a 
personal pension plan at such a young age.However, to be clear, MCLs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, MCL said Mr T had additional reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
MCL recommended a transfer to a type of personal pension. It based this on what it said 
were a number of reasons which were all set out in its suitability report. Ive summarised the 
main themes below:
Mr T could take the benefits from the age of 55. In a personal pension he could take 
a tax-free cash sum. MCL also said that transferring away could lead to a seamless 
transition into a drawdown pension arrangement in due course, which could prove 
advantageous when taking benefits in the future.
There were a broad range of investment opportunities offering enhanced flexibility. 
While invested, the funds could benefit from tax advantaged growth. MCL implied 
hed have more control over his pension. It said this included greater investment 
opportunities, varying / switching funds and managing the account on-line.
It was implied the would be more flexible access to death benefits in a personal 
pension. 
There were certainly underlying reasons of trust, given the situation with Mr Ts 
company at the time.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that MCL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr T. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
Our investigator correctly pointed out that the documents from the time seemed to suggest 
an anomaly in that Mr T had said he would expect to retire at 65, whilst  MCL mentioned 
several times that 55 was when he could retire if he transferred to a personal pension 
arrangement. However, I accept that what MCL was probably trying to do was to describe 
the options that might be presented by the new pension freedom rules. 
But I also think this demonstrates the overall weakness in MCLs approach. The obvious 
issue here is that Mr T was only 35 years old and its simply not credible that he had any 
plans for retirement at that point. As of 2017, this pension represented almost Mr Ts whole 
retirement provision and contained a number of useful guarantees and benefits 
commensurate with a DB scheme.
Its certainly possible there was a discussion about potentially retiring early and Mr T might 
have genuinely hoped to retire as early as 55. But Ive seen nothing that shows this was 
anything more than something he might have aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to 
being part of a formulated plan. And in determining what Mr Ts income retirement needs 
could be, anyone judging these would be making no more than a guess. In my view, it was 
therefore much too soon to be advising Mr T to transfer to a personal pension based on age. Ive noted too, that several comments were made to Mr T inferring his new personal 
pension would benefit from tax advantages. So, whilst it was true he might benefit from tax 
advantaged growth and that he would receive tax relief on his contributions these were 
somewhat mis-leading statements since Mr T already enjoyed such advantages under the 
DB scheme he was being advised not to transfer into (BSPS2). 
MCL also promoted to Mr T that he could access tax-free cash if he transferred to a personal 
pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum when he 
reached the age of 55. Its often the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a 
personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and 
benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But extra tax-free lump sums being 
removed from a personal pension, potentially from his mid-50s in his case, also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. Ive noted this was pointed out to Mr T but the advice was to transfer, 
nevertheless.
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario of any early retirement aspirations Mr T had  
were more fixed - and he really did want to retire early - I think MCL should have been 
clearer about the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of the BSPS2, for 
example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have been an 
option for Mr T, although this would have meant Mr Ts pension benefits would have been 
somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. Again, I accept 
this was probably discussed, but I think this was discounted by MCL as the recommendation 
focussed on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr T faced, including 
opting for the BSPS2. I cant see that Mr T required flexibility in retirement in the way MCL 
suggested. As he was so young, it wasnt really possible to say what Mr Ts financial and 
income needs were likely to be in retirement. And I havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr T wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing 
his DB pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. 
This is because, as well as retirement being a long time away, we know Mr T had already 
joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and could have been making 
contributions to it for up to 29 years more, until he retired. Mr Ts contributions to this 
second pension were being substantially added to by his employer and I think theres every 
reason to say that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial 
amount in this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr T could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing modest DB pension, 
but one with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other 
hand, hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found 
he did require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what MCL said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because so little was known about what his retirement would look like. MCL also implied that 
Mr T would be able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. But Ive 
seen nothing which shows Mr T had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his pension. As Ive pointed out earlier, Mr Ts previous exposure to investing was not 
really known and he had no such investments at the time. And to grow the transferred funds 
in the way MCL later said he could, a much higher degree of risk exposure would have been 
required.
So, I think Mr Ts circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr T to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.
Death benefits 
MCL says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension could 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr T died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr T. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think that inferring Mr Ts death benefits would improve in a personal pension because 
he could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only in his 30s and in good 
health, he and Mrs T had a family of four. In my view, the likely death benefits attached to 
the new DB scheme were therefore highly relevant to Mr and Mrs T and they were also 
substantially underplayed. 
The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs T if Mr T 
predeceased her and I dont think MCL made the value of this benefit clear enough. The 
evidence tends to suggest Mrs T didnt have a pension of her own and her income was 
currently low. As a father, I think the child specific benefits would also have been meaningful 
to Mr T. These were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Ts 
passing, particularly if he lived a long life. MCL should therefore not have encouraged Mr T 
to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that MCL took into account the fact that Mr T could have nominated 
Mrs T and / or their children as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, 
to this end, Mr T had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 35 years old, 
this would have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr T really did want to leave a 
legacy for Mrs T and eventually their children. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme Its clear that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and MCL 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and MCL 
said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was MCLs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Ts concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that MCL should 
have reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr T through the PPF would still have probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his actual ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees Ive mentioned. And although the increases in payment in the PPF 
were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, 
I dont think that these concerns should have led to MCLs recommendation to Mr T to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
MCL has implied there has ultimately been no loss incurred as a result of its advice to 
transfer out, a theme rejected by Mr T. However, I understand MCLs calculations were also 
based on him retiring early - again, a theme rejected by Mr T.
MCL has repeatedly said that retiring early was what Mr T said he wanted to do. This was 
repeated after the investigator issued their view (recommending we uphold the complaint) 
and was mentioned, Im sure, in the context of any redress which might be payable to Mr T 
by MCL, if his complaint were indeed to be upheld. 
Ive covered the issue of age and early retirement already in this final decision. But for the 
avoidance of doubt, MCLs position about him retiring early merely substantiates what Ive 
said about the danger of transferring from a DB pension, whilst still relatively young. Mr T 
had no concrete retirement plans at the time of the advice, and to have any thoughts at all 
would have been mere aspirations in his case, aged as he was, just 35 years old. In any 
event, theres evidence recorded from the time of the advice showing Mr T accepted that 
retiring at 65 was what he expected  retiring earlier was therefore an aspiration in this case, 
if it was even properly discussed at all.
MCL also says theres no evidence Mr T received his Time to Choose letter from the 
BSPS. I dont propose to go into great detail about this issue as I reject MCLs implications of 
its relevance. From what Ive seen, the Time to Choose letter was sent to Mr T in late 
November 2017. Given the circumstances of the time, I think MCL would or should have 
been following these British Steel events closely. And MCL is responsible for the advice it 
gave to Mr T to transfer to a type of personal pension plan. He was paying for that advice 
and had every right to be guided through the process.
SummaryI dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension could have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But MCL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr T was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think MCL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this 
reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr T still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr T would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr T was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr T chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think MCL should have advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr T would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that MCL disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr T, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr T to transfer out, and I think Mr T relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against MCLs advice. I say this because Mr T was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if MCL had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if MCL had explained Mr T was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think MCL should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for MCLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice. So, MCL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes. Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. So, I am satisfied that a calculation in line 
with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T. 
For clarity, Mr T has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
MCL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date MCL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MCL to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect MCL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr T of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr T by MCL for what he 
referred to as the worry caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into consideration Mr 
Ts age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension would still have been 
a significant part of his overall pension entitlement, so I think the thought of losing benefits 
would have negatively impacted Mr T. I therefore agree that MCL should also pay Mr T £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an 
impact on his retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct 
Makemson & Company Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Makemson & Company Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Makemson & Company Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Makemson & Company Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Makemson & 
Company Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman