DRN-3334314
The complaint
Ms W complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2016, Ms W acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Ms W was required to make 35 monthly repayments of £239 followed by a final 
payment of £398. The total repayable under the agreement was £8,747.
Ms W says that MotoNovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included gathering information from Ms W as well 
as carrying out a credit check. It said it had reviewed Ms Ws application as part of its 
investigation using the average income from her bank statements of £1,397 a month and 
that taking into account Ms Ws commitment expenditure the repayments under the 
agreement were affordable. It said Ms Ws credit check didnt show that she had payday 
loans at the time and didnt rise concerns. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They thought MotoNovo ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Ms W.
MotoNovo didnt agree and said that the credit file evidenced its defence that Ms W didnt 
have the payday loans noted at the point of sale. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I note MotoNovos comments about the checks that were required at the time and the size 
and duration of the agreement. However, as MotoNovo didnt ask Ms W about her income or 
regular expenditure prior to lending, I dont think it was possible for it to make a fair 
assessment of Ms Ws ability to afford the repayments without undue difficulty. It therefore 
didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for MotoNovo to have asked for Ms Ws income in 
some way. Ive seen that Ms Ws income in March and April 2016 was £1,397. It was slightly 
higher in February 2016. Therefore, an income figure of around £1,400 would be reasonable 
to use in the assessment. This means that the repayments under the agreement accounted 
for around 17% of her monthly income. While this amount doesnt in itself raise concerns, I 
think it would have been proportionate for MotoNovo to have found out more about Ms Ws 
committed expenditure, such as her living costs to ensure she could afford to sustainably 
repay the new agreement as well as her existing commitments. 
I cant be sure exactly what MotoNovo would have found out if it had asked. In the absence 
of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
contained in Ms Ws bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These show 
that Ms W was paying around £1,450 a month towards her committed living expenditure 
including housing costs, food, transport and credit commitments (including credit cards and 
loans). These amounts include payments of around £550 for a short term loan. I accept this 
loan wasnt noted in Ms Ws credit report but I think it more likely than not that had a review 
of her expenditure been undertaken then it would have been clear that Ms Ws monthly 
outgoings were more than her income and therefore I think it reasonable to accept that her 
total level of expenditure (including all loans) would have been identified. Based on these 
numbers Ms W didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. 
MotoNovo therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think MotoNovo ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Ms W should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £6,490. Anything Ms W has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment.
To settle Ms Ws complaint MotoNovo should do the following:
Refund any payments Ms W has made in excess of £6,490, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Ms W asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman