DRN-3472906
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros has handled 
a claim hes made on his buildings insurance policy for subsidence. Hes also unhappy with 
Ocasos proposals to deal with the subsidence and is concerned its not adhering to the 
requirements of the lease.
What happened
References to Mr L and Ocaso include respective representatives unless stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively detailed by our Investigator previously, so Ill provide a brief summary here.
Mr L is the freeholder of a property divided into two flats. He lives in the first floor flat 
and a leaseholder lives in the ground floor flat. Mr Ls flat is insured by Ocaso and the 
other flat by a different insurer.
In 2017, Mr L reported damage to the property to Ocaso. The claim was accepted 
and Ocaso appointed a specialist to investigate and manage the claim. 
In 2018 an arboriculturist visited the site and produced a report which identified a 
local authority owned tree on the pavement outside Mr Ls property as the cause of 
the subsidence damage.  
He said annual pollarding of the tree to 12 metres was likely to be successful in 
controlling soil drying close to the tree. Ocaso decided it didnt need to pursue an 
engineering solution to address the subsidence and pollarding would be sufficient.
Mr L wasnt happy with this as he said the local authority only pollarded the tree 
infrequently and he had no way to compel it to do so more often and in line with the 
report. He complained to Ocaso. 
Ocaso issued its final response in January 2021 and maintained its position. It said it 
couldnt force the council to remove the tree as was Mr Ls preference and it was the 
councils responsibility to manage the tree so it didnt have any adverse impact on his 
property.
Our Investigator considered the evidence and said she didnt think Ocasos approach 
was fair as she wasnt persuaded it would result in an effective and lasting repair. 
She said Ocaso should re-engage with the insurer of the ground floor flat to find an 
engineered solution, pay Mr L £750 for the impact of its poor handling and explain 
how it intended to comply with the terms of the lease.
Ocaso didnt accept or reject the recommendations and so the case has come to me 
for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As background, I note Ocaso has been very slow to respond to enquiries made by this 
Service and we have had to chase on numerous occasions for responses to specific 
questions. Following our Investigators initial view on the complaint, Ocaso did provide a 
couple of documents in response but with no explanation about how or why these supported 
its position. It also hasnt responded to say whether it accepted or rejected the Investigators 
recommendations despite being chased several times, which is why the case is now with me 
for a decision.
In light of the timeframe weve given to Ocaso to respond, Im satisfied it has been given an 
ample opportunity to provide submissions to this Service and clarify its position and explain 
any reasons for disagreeing.
Ocasos proposals to address the cause of the subsidence
Its not in dispute that Mr Ls property has been damaged by subsidence and the root cause 
of this is a local council owned tree on the pavement outside the property. What is disputed 
though is Ocasos proposed solution to address the subsidence. Ocaso has said regular 
pollarding of the tree will bring about stability so theres no need for an engineering solution. 
But Mr L has no confidence this approach will avoid future subsidence and damage to his 
property. 
The terms of Mr Ls policy allow Ocaso the option of how to settle the claim including 
whether to repair, reinstate or rebuild the part of the building thats damaged by an insured 
peril. This is common among policies of this nature and means Ocaso can decide how to put 
things right when handling the claim.
I know Mr L is of the opinion Ocaso favours the pollarding option as a way of saving money 
over the cost of an engineering solution such as underpinning the property. Insurers do take 
account of costs when considering possible methods of repair or how to settle a claim. This 
isnt inherently unfair, and I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to be prudent when 
making this kind of decision. But, in handling a claim and considering costs, an insurer 
mustnt lose sight of its obligations under the policy  and in this instance, to ensure an 
effective and lasting repair. 
To decide whether Ocaso has acted fairly, Ive gone on to consider the evidence available to 
me.
Ocaso instructed an arboriculturist to undertake an investigation into the cause of the 
subsidence and possible approach to resolve the issue. The report explains:
Pruning to trees involved in subsidence damage to buildings is generally unreliable 
unless repeated frequentlyThis is a borderline case: there cannot be an absolute 
guarantee that pruning will produce stasis in the building in this case.but there is a 
possibility that pruning alone, provided that the tree is treated regularly, might limit soil 
dryingsome sort of repetition not less than every year would be required. This might be 
difficult to ensure and would strictly require specification and timing appropriate to the 
state of the tree at the time
It concludes that the local council pollarding the tree to 12 metres every year would be 
required to be successful.Having considered this report very carefully, its clear the expert has concerns about the 
effectiveness and/or practicality of this approach. And it seems to me the possible success 
of this approach is entirely contingent on the local council undertaking regular annual 
pollarding. From Mr Ls testimony, it seems the councils past record of pollarding is 
infrequent and unpredictable at best and certainly some way outside the annual pollarding 
recommended in the report to ensure its ongoing success. Ive also seen nothing which 
persuades me Ocaso has obtained agreement from the council to undertake the pollarding 
in the required way and timescale.
Ocasos view is that it will be down to the council to ensure theres no further damage to 
Mr Ls property by undertaking the required pollarding. It says if this doesnt prove 
successful, it can hold the council accountable for further damage should it arise due to any 
insufficient work they may have done. 
I can see why Mr L wouldnt be happy with this approach as hes already been dealing with 
this insurance claim since 2017, so the prospect of having to go through it again if the 
council  over which he nor Ocaso have any control  fail to undertake the required 
pollarding, would be understandably distressing. And even more so in the knowledge that 
Ocaso is withdrawing from the UK insurance market and therefore has been unable to renew 
his policy and this may well leave Mr L without subsidence cover.
I also take Mr Ls point that the tree has been pollarded at times over the last 30 years hes 
been living in the property and yet its still resulted in it being the cause of the damage. I 
understand why he wouldnt feel confident in this approach.
Mr Ls downstairs neighbours, perhaps self-evidently, are impacted by the subsidence as 
well and have made a claim on their policy with a different insurer. Another arboriculturist 
report was undertaken in connection with this other claim and a copy of this has been 
provided to this Service. The report says:
We note that [the tree] has been subject to regular pollarding, however it has proved 
ineffective; in the context of the current claim we consider the above vegetation is 
simply too large and/or close for pruning to be deemed realistically effective.
Removal of [the tree] will offer the most certain and reliable abroricultural solution 
likely to restore stability
So in summary, theres one expert who says Ocasos proposed solution possibly might 
provide stability  subject to conditions outside its or Mr Ls control  and another who rules 
it out as a solution entirely. 
In this case, the council has ruled out the removal of the tree despite representations from 
Ocaso. One of Ocasos engineers commented in internal communications:
If the LA [local authority] are adamant that the tree will not be removedthen 
underpinning would be the only solution
As long as the tree remains, and the required pollarding cannot be guaranteed, based on the 
evidence, it seems to me theres an ongoing risk of future subsidence and damage. Overall, 
Im not persuaded the evidence shows Ocasos proposed solution will more likely than not 
provide an effective and lasting repair.
I know Mr L would like this Service to state what engineering solution should be employed to 
best deal with the subsidence. Thats simply outside the scope of this Services role and 
Ocaso  working with his neighbours insurer, which it seems has proposed an engineering solution - will have access to experts better placed to decide on this. It also wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to reach a decision on this as it would have implications for his neighbour 
whos not a party to this complaint.
I will therefore be directing Ocaso to re-engage with the insurer of Mr Ls downstairs 
neighbour to agree, at pace, the most appropriate engineering solution to address the 
subsidence. Ill take this opportunity to remind Ocaso of its obligation to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly, particularly given the length of time this matter has already been going 
on.
Claim handling
In my experience, incidents of subsidence are often stressful for a homeowner to deal with 
and insurance claims relating to them, by their nature, generally take considerable time to 
resolve and this can be made worse when third parties are involved, as is the case here. I 
cant hold the insurer responsible for this but I can consider if theyve handled the claim 
promptly and fairly in line with their obligations or if theyve caused unnecessary delays and 
distress.
Ocaso declined to provide a timeline of events over the life of the claim. But Ive seen 
enough from the evidence to be persuaded it didnt meet its obligation to handle the claim 
promptly and fairly and this has made an already difficult situation worse for Mr L.
For example, Mr L's explained that for long periods of time, Ocaso failed to keep him up to 
date with progress on the claim and at times was out of contact with him for extended 
periods despite him chasing them for information. 
It also seems the relationship between Mr L and Ocasos representative became strained 
through the claim and there was a six-month delay in Mr L being reimbursed for expenses 
he incurred.
Its clear Ocaso spent a significant period of time engaging with the council in an effort to 
come to an agreement about the removal of the tree. I can see why Ocaso were keen to 
pursue this option as it would likely be considerably cheaper than an engineering solution. 
But the amount of time it pursued this option to me seems excessive and over what I would 
consider reasonable.  I would have expected Ocaso to have considered alternatives such as 
an engineering solution in light of the lack of progress while pursuing its preferred option. 
Overall, the claim was first made in 2017 and has been going on for some four years and 
theres really no significant progress and Mr L still doesnt have any certainty about how the 
subsidence problem is going to be resolved. In the time hes been waiting, the property has 
experienced further cracking and damage that may well have been avoided if the claim had 
been progressed more quickly. 
Ive borne all this in mind in reaching my decision about the amount of compensation Ocaso 
should pay Mr L. 
Compliance with the lease
As the freeholder of the property, Mr L is concerned to ensure Ocaso will comply with the 
terms of the lease. This is to ensure the costs relating to the remedial work are correctly 
apportioned between the two flats.
Im pleased to see in the evidence submitted by Ocaso, it has confirmed it has considered 
the terms of the lease and will ensure the requirements contained in them will be adhered to. I see no reason to comment on this further, other than to say Ocaso should provide Mr L 
with a clear explanation about how its done this.
Putting things right
Ive detailed above the remedial action Ocaso should take to resolve the subsidence and 
comply with the lease.
Its clear from the evidence Mr L has found this claim very distressing to deal with, not just as 
hes the owner of the upstairs flat but also the freeholder of the entire building. Its no 
surprise that a claim thats gone on for as long as this without any certainty that a suitable, 
effective and lasting solution will be provided will only add to this distress. 
And while Ocasos decision to exit the UK insurance market is outside the scope of this 
complaint, I have to overlay the additional uncertainty Mr L experienced knowing hed no 
longer be able to secure insurance through Ocaso. 
Ive balanced this with the need for Ocaso to deal with third parties and that the downstairs 
property is insured by another insurer and its been a particular challenge to coordinate the 
policyholders requirements and the insurers different proposed approaches. 
Ive thought about all this very carefully and have reached the conclusion that Ocaso hasnt 
handled the claim as well as Id expect and has caused unnecessary delays over the life of 
the claim. I have decided it should pay Mr L £750 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience its caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros 
y Reaseguros to:
Re-engage with the insurers of Mr Ls downstairs neighbour to agree, at pace, a 
suitable engineering solution to address the cause of the subsidence to bring about 
an effective and lasting repair.
In any claims handling it should seek to comply with the terms of the lease to ensure 
costs are apportioned appropriately and provide Mr L a clear explanation about how 
it has done this.
Pay Mr L £750 for the distress and inconvenience its caused him as a result of its 
poor claim handling.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman