DRN-3157029
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how MBNA Limited dealt with her credit card account application.
What happened
Mrs B says she applied for a MBNA credit card account in April 2019 at the same time as 
her husband. She says her husband received his account card and PIN, but she didnt. Mrs 
B says she made a number of telephone calls to MBNA about this and in summary was told 
the account application was successful and the account card sent, before later being told the 
account application had frozen. She says she was advised by MBNA to apply again but was 
unable to do so as MBNAs systems said there was a pending application. Mrs B was able to 
make a new application around the end of May 2019 and start of June 2019, but this 
application was refused. She says she was caused distress and the refusal caused financial 
difficulties and would like compensation for what took place. Mrs B says she sold personal 
possessions as a result. 
MBNA accepts it told Mrs B the application was successful and has apologised for what took 
place. Its paid £100 compensation to Mrs Bs husband on her behalf as requested. MBNA 
says the first application had no impact on its decision to reject the second application or that 
the first application would have affected Mrs Bs credit file
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation paid by 
MBNA appropriate. He accepted MBNA could have been clearer about what took place but 
thought it was entitled to reject the second application. The investigator didnt think there any 
financial loss as a result of what took place.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and in summary says she was accepted for an account which 
was then taken away. She says she made a number of calls to MBNA and says the £100 
compensation was for her and her husbands call costs. Mrs B remains concerned that her 
credit file was impacted.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I didnt think MBNAs 
compensation offer went far enough for the reasons I would explain.
 I said there was no question here that MBNA didnt handle Mrs Bs credit card application as 
it should have. I listened to the numerous telephone calls that Mrs B made to MBNA about 
her application and I was satisfied that she was told on a number of occasions her 
application was successful and she needed to simply wait for the credit card and PIN to 
arrive. During one call Mrs B was clearly told the application was definitely approved.
So, I appreciated Mrs Bs frustration in finding out some time after the application, that in fact 
it had not been approved and that she needed to apply again. I also listened to the 
telephone calls about that point and I was satisfied Mrs B was told to wait 48 hours to make 
a new application. There was no dispute that Mrs B did wait but the new application couldnt 
be processed at that time.
I was satisfied that Mrs B made numerous calls to MBNA and some were of a significant 
length. I made clear that I accepted Mrs B was given incorrect and misleading information 
and I could see from her telephone records that she incurred costs in making those calls. I 
didnt think it possible to calculate the exact cost as Mrs B cant provide all of her statements, 
but I thought based on what I had seen that such costs would be about £50 to £75.
I accepted Mrs B was caused inconvenience in making the telephone calls to MBNA and in 
having to make a new application. I thought it took some eight weeks at least before matters 
were finally resolved. In those circumstances I didnt think MBNAs compensation offer went 
far enough and didnt fairly reflect the cost of the calls. I thought MBNA should pay a further 
£50 compensation making a total of £150 which also includes a fair estimate of the call costs 
which are likely to be about half of that award.
I appreciated Mrs B says she suffered a financial loss and was forced to sell possessions. 
But I didnt think there was any financial loss here apart from the call costs. I said that as its 
up to MBNA to decide with whom it has a business relationship when exercising its 
commercial judgement. And had MBNA assessed the application correctly at the start then it 
likely it would have refused it as it did with the new application. I didnt think Mrs B was 
entitled to an account card as she suggests and, although MBNA told her that her 
application was successful, it is now clear that was a mistake.
I said I have not seen any evidence that Mrs Bs credit file was affected by the first 
application and the evidence I had seen from Mrs Bs credit file suggests there was no 
impact.
Overall, my provisional view was that MBNAs compensation offer doesnt go far enough or 
reflect the call costs Mrs B incurred. But I was satisfied that MBNA was entitled to reject an 
account application even if it has previously told an applicant that the application was 
successful.
Mrs B accepts my provisional view and MBNA hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.  
Putting things right
MBNA should pay a further £50 compensation to make a total of £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order MBNA Limited to pay a 
further £50 compensation to Mrs B.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 David Singh
Ombudsman