DRN-2151313
The complaint
Mr W1 brings this complaint on behalf of his father, Mr W2. Mr W1 says that in 2005 an 
equity release mortgage was mis-sold to Mr W2 by Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (then 
known as Norwich Union Life Services Limited but referred to here as Aviva or, in some 
instances, the advisor). To settle the complaint, Mr W1 says he would like this possibly 
mis-sold agreement terminated.
In this context, although the mortgage advice was given by a representative of Aviva, and 
the mortgage was taken out with Aviva, there are two discrete businesses involved in this 
transaction. The mortgage advice was given by Norwich Union Life Services Limited (the 
advisor) and the mortgage lending was provided by Norwich Union Equity Release Limited 
(the lender).
This complaint is against the advisor, and is that the mortgage was mis-sold in 2005.
What happened
The full details of the complaint are set out in the correspondence between Mr W1, Aviva 
and the Financial Ombudsman Service, so I will not repeat all the details here.
Briefly, in 2005, after taking advice from Aviva, Mr W2 took out an equity release mortgage, 
also with Aviva in its separate capacity as the lender. He borrowed £25,000, secured against 
his home, which was free of mortgage at a fixed interest rate of 6.49%.  No monthly 
repayments were due; instead interest is rolled up over the term of the loan and the final 
balance is paid off either on Mr W2s death, if he goes into full-time nursing care or on a 
voluntary sale of the property. If the mortgage is repaid voluntarily, an early repayment 
charge (ERC) may be due.
In 2009 Mr W2 enquired about further borrowing but didnt proceed with this.
In 2014 Mr W2 queried the interest rate with the lender, and received a final response letter 
which explained that this was a fixed interest rate. The lender provided information about the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, but no complaint was raised by Mr W2 at the time.
In June 2019 Mr W1 made a complaint to Aviva about sale of the mortgage. Mr W1 said that 
to his sheer horror Mr W2 had recently disclosed to him that hed taken out the mortgage. 
Mr W1 says that the family hadnt been aware of this, or consulted. Mr W1 said he was 
questioning the legality and professional conduct shown when the mortgage was sold. 
Mr W1 maintains that Aviva had possibly coerced Mr W2 into taking out the mortgage. 
Mr W1 also disputed that the property had been worth £100,000 in 2005. He also says that 
the family was not informed or consulted in any capacity when the mortgage was taken out. 
Mr W1 wanted to see evidence of the legal procedures taken by [Aviva] to ensure the family 
were contacted. Please include the names of the family members contacted and the 
solicitor(s) instructed. Please include the dates the family members were contacted and their 
replies proving they were made complete aware of the terms and legalities of this 
agreement.
In its final response letter, Aviva explained that it didnt think it had done anything wrong 
when the mortgage was sold and so it wasnt upholding the complaint.
Dissatisfied with Avivas final response, Mr W1 brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Hes pointed out that the valuation was inaccurate and would be 
thrown out by a court of law. Mr W1 also says that, in his opinion, Mr W2 suffers from both 
autism and Aspergers Syndrome and that he lacked the intelligence to apply for this 
mortgage of his own volition. Mr W1 says that the property valuation and fact-find were 
inaccurate and possibly manipulated or manufactured to justify the sale of the mortgage. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Aviva had followed the correct sales processes and that Mr W2 had also been given 
advice by an independent solicitor. It was also explained to Mr W1 that there was no 
requirement for Aviva to contact family members about Mr W2s mortgage application. The 
investigator was also satisfied that Aviva was entitled to rely on the valuation report, as it had 
been prepared by a suitably-qualified surveyor.
Mr W1 disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes provided a very detailed response, reiterating all his concerns about why he 
thinks the mortgage was mis-sold, as well as background information about Mr W2, and 
documentation hes found online about equity release mortgages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome. 
I will begin by explaining that, under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a 
consumer. Mr W2 is a consumer, and so meets the definition of an eligible complainant set 
out in our rules. For the purposes of this complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be 
brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible 
complainant. Mr W1 is bringing the complaint on his fathers behalf, with Mr W2s authority.
But I must explain that, although Mr W1 is representing his father, it is Mr W2 who is Avivas 
customer. Mr W1s role is to bring Mr W2s complaint, in the same way that other consumers 
might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mr W1 to air his own grievances about Aviva, because Mr W1 is not its 
customer; his role is limited to putting forward Mr W2s complaint,I note from the detailed correspondence that Mr W1 has expressed his own concerns about 
what he perceives to be Avivas failings  and I do not doubt his strength of feeling about 
this. But because Mr W1 is not Avivas customer, his own concerns about Aviva dont form 
part of this complaint.
Mr W2 hasnt complained about sale of the mortgage previously (although he did complain 
about the interest rate in 2014) and it seems that it was only in June 2019 after Mr W1 
learned of the existence of the mortgage that a complaint was raised with Aviva that it had 
been mis-sold. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the plan. Without a 
specific complaint from Mr W2 about it, I have considered generally whether Aviva did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
Mr W1 has raised issues about the surveyor and solicitors; understandably it probably 
appears to Mr W1 that Aviva is all one company. But the advisory part of the business and 
the lending part of the business are separate, as I said at the outset. This complaint is about 
the advice to take out the mortgage and that is what I will be concentrating on. Where I refer 
to events that occurred after the mortgage was taken out in relation to the lender, it is to 
support the conclusions Ive reached about what happened at the point of sale in 2005.
The surveyor was instructed by the lender, not the advisor. And it was a requirement of the 
lender for Mr W2 to take advice from an independent solicitor. 
Ive also noted that Mr W1 has provided a great deal of information about his father, 
particularly in relation to his behaviour around family members, his holiday preferences and 
his social life. But as our decisions are published, I will not repeat any of this information in 
order to preserve Mr W2s anonymity. But I confirm Ive read everything Mr W1 has sent us.
I can understand Mr W1s concerns about the mortgage. This type of mortgage provides that 
no repayments are made, and interest rolls up. As a result, the amount of the overall debt to 
be repaid can sometimes come as a shock to family members. 
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be unhappy once they learned 
that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage. Precisely because of this, even 
before mortgage regulation came into effect on 31 October 2004, the sales process for these 
products has always been very robust, with borrowers required to take advice from a 
solicitor, as well as an independent financial advisor.
The mortgage was sold in line with the requirements of the Equity Release Councils 
predecessor, known as the Safe Home Income Plans (SHIP), and in line with the Mortgages 
and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
The argument has been made that Aviva has breached the Equity Release Councils rules. 
The Equity Release Council was created in 2012. The rules were adopted by the Council on 
11th July 2013 and came into effect on 1 January 2014. So they didnt apply at the time of 
the application in 2005. 
Ive carefully examined the available documents from the time of the sale in 2005. They 
include the fact find the advisor completed, a letter of recommendation and a key facts 
illustration (KFI) for the mortgage Mr W2 went on to take out. These documents are the only 
record of what was discussed and agreed at the time and fulfil Avivas regulatory obligations 
under MCOB. 
What the documents show is that there were discussions between Mr W2 and the advisor, 
and Mr W2 answered questions and shared information about his finances and objectives. I find nothing in these papers to indicate that the advisor knew  or should reasonably have 
thought  Mr W2 lacked capacity to understand the advice he received or the mortgage he 
agreed to. 
Im also satisfied Avivas advisor would have explained at the interview the importance of 
Mr W2 providing accurate information in answer to the questions asked. It was not for Aviva 
to question whether Mr W2 was being truthful about his circumstances or about the 
information he was providing, including whether or not he was divorced or a widower.
Likewise, Mr W2 told Aviva hed discussed his plans with family members. Aviva was entitled 
to accept this as being a truthful answer. In my experience of dealing with equity release 
cases, I have to say that it is not uncommon for parents to want to keep their finances 
private from their children. If Mr W2 decided not to discuss his plans with the family, that was 
entirely his prerogative. Aviva was under no obligation to contact any family members to 
obtain their consent before Mr W2 went ahead with the mortgage; it would be both a breach 
of data protection legislation and a gross invasion of Mr W2s privacy if Aviva had done so.
As far as the valuation of the property is concerned, this was carried out by a Member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, on behalf of the lender, not the advisor. Aviva, in its 
capacity as advisor, had no involvement in the valuation.
Mr W1 has questioned the need for Mr W2 to take out an equity release mortgage, and has 
provided detailed comments about his fathers lifestyle, level of intelligence, attitudes and 
behaviour, and speculated that he thinks his father suffers from autism and Aspergers 
syndrome. There is no medical evidence of either diagnoses in the file.  
But I note that in 2014 Mr W2 contacted the lender about the interest rate on the mortgage, 
and was sent a final response letter. If Mr W2 had sufficient mental capacity to understand 
how the mortgage worked in 2014 to query the interest rate on it with the lender, then its 
reasonable for me to conclude that Mr W2 had capacity to understand what he was doing 
when he discussed taking out the mortgage with the advisor nine years earlier. 
There is no reason to suggest that Aviva knew, or ought to have known, about all the 
elements of Mr W2s behaviour in relation to his family which Mr W1 has told us about. Nor 
is there any medical evidence to suggest that that the behaviour Mr W1 has highlighted was 
evidence of any lack of mental capacity on the part of Mr W. There isnt any medical 
evidence to show that Mr W2 had any other type of cognitive impairment in 2005.  Mr W2 
was 69 years old when he discussed the mortgage with Aviva in May 2005, which is 
relatively young for an equity release borrower.
In the circumstances, I find, having considered the evidence, that there is no basis upon 
which I could reasonably conclude that the advisor ought to have decided that Mr W2 lacked 
the capacity to enter into the contract.
The mortgage offer was issued by the lender. One of the lenders conditions was that Mr W2 
had to take advice from an independent firm of solicitors. Im satisfied that if the solicitors 
instructed by Mr W2 had had any concerns about Mr W2s mental capacity, they were under 
a duty to tell the lender, as per SHIP rules in place at the time. The fact that no concerns 
were raised by the solicitors about Mr W2s mental capacity supports my findings that there 
was nothing that would, or should, have alerted the advisor to question Mr W2s mental 
capacity in May 2005.
Im not persuaded pressurised or coerced Mr W2 into taking out this mortgage, as Mr W1 
has suggested. From what hes told us, it seems Mr W1 has suspicions that Mr W2 may 
have been influenced into applying for an equity release mortgage by a person Mr W1 describes as Mr W2s so-called girlfriend. Indeed, Mr W2 says that one the things he wants 
to do with the money is to treat his girlfriend. There is nothing in the documentation to 
suggest that Mr W2 was accompanied by any third party when he met with the advisor or 
that the advisor had any concerns about Mr W2 being subject to undue influence by a third 
party.
After careful consideration, Im satisfied the mortgage recommended by Aviva met Mr W2s 
requirements to raise a lump sum of £25,000.  Mr W2 didnt want to move home, his existing 
savings were insufficient for his plans to buy a new car, travel and treat his girlfriend. Mr W2 
had no investments that were due to mature, nor any other sources of credit that would be 
affordable on his income.
Mr W2 told Aviva how he wanted to spend the money, and if he didnt spend it as hed said, 
that was up to him. Its not something for which Aviva can be held responsible. Mr W2 had 
no available income to be able to pay off a standard capital repayment mortgage, and so an 
equity release mortgage was the most suitable option for him.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr W1 was hoping for. As I said at the outset, I am fully 
aware that it can come as a great shock to the family to find that their relative  usually an 
elderly parent  has taken out an equity release mortgage. But for all the reasons given 
above, taking into account all the circumstances, and having reviewed everything Mr W1 and 
Aviva have said, Im satisfied the mortgage was not mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman