DRN-4415969
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to a timeshare disposal service.
What happened
In May 2016 Mrs P and her husband entered into a contract with a third party which I will call 
R. Mr and Mrs P had a timeshare which they no longer wanted, and R agreed to dispose of 
it for them. Mrs P says R also agreed to claim compensation for them, and to include Rs 
own fee in the compensation claim, so that Rs service would effectively be free. Mrs P says 
that she was expecting to receive around £30,000 altogether. She paid R a deposit of about 
£250 using her Halifax credit card. (The rest of Rs fee was more than €6,700, and was paid 
by other means.)
Two months later, in July 2016 Mr and Mrs P surrendered their timeshare membership to 
their provider themselves, without Rs involvement.
Nearly five years later, in April 2021, Mrs P asked Halifax to refund Rs entire fee, relying on 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. She said she had been tricked by R into accepting its 
services, but then she had later realised that R was in fact a scam company, because R had 
never responded to her attempts to contact it, and also by reading about R online. She said 
that its service had therefore been misrepresented to her, and R had never had any intention 
of fulfilling its contract. That was why she had disposed of her timeshare herself two months 
later. She was represented in her section 75 claim by a claims management company 
(CMC).
Halifax asked the CMC for evidence that supported Mrs Ps claim. When none was provided, 
it declined her claim. It said there was no evidence that R had misrepresented its service, or 
that it could not or would not have fulfilled its contract, if it had been given more than two 
months to do it. Halifax said R had given no timeframe in which it had undertaken to dispose 
of the timeshare. Mr P complained about that decision on his wifes behalf, but Halifax 
reiterated its stance. The CMC then brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said there was no evidence that Mrs P 
had been unable to get in touch with R. She said that if Mrs P had really thought she had 
been defrauded by a scam company in 2016, then she would not have waited five years to 
ask Halifax for a refund. She thought two months was not a reasonable timescale in which to 
expect R to accomplish the disposal of the timeshare, as this can often take up to twelve 
months. She pointed out that Rs contract, which Mr and Mrs S had both signed, did not say 
that R would claim compensation for them, or that it would try to get its fee back from the 
timeshare provider. For those reasons, the investigator concluded that Halifax had been 
entitled to reject Mrs Ps claim.
Mrs P then instructed a different CMC to represent her, and it is this second CMC which now 
represents her in this complaint. 
The new CMC challenged the investigators opinion. It accepted that the written contract did 
not say that R would pursue compensation, but it argued that Rs salesman had promised it 
would, and that was a misrepresentation. It pointed out that after Mr and Mrs P had 
relinquished their timeshare, they had received no acknowledgement of that from R, or any 
further communication at all, which showed that R had not been working on their case. This 
meant that how long it would have taken R to dispose of the timeshare if Mr and Mrs P had 
not done it themselves was moot. It pointed out that dishonest sales practices have been 
observed in other cases about timeshare cases reviewed by our service. It said that Mr and 
Mrs Ps relinquishment of the timeshare was not legally binding under the law of the relevant 
jurisdiction, because it had not been notarised; if R had done its job then it would have 
discovered that and then advised Mr and Mrs P accordingly, so the fact that it had still not 
contacted them supported their claim that R had done nothing. The CMC asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
My role in this case is to determine whether Halifax reasonably declined Mrs Ps section 75 
claim based on the information which was before it at the time. The second CMCs point 
about the legal validity of the timeshare surrender document Mr and Mrs P signed in 2016 is 
a new point which Halifax was not asked to consider in 2021, so I dont think Halifax can be 
expected to have taken it into account.
I am not satisfied that Rs salesman really told Mr and Mrs P that R would seek to obtain 
tens of thousands of pounds in compensation  including its own fees  from the timeshare 
provider. Rs contract, which both Mr and Mrs P signed, is short and easy to read, and it 
says nothing of the kind. Between that and the fact that Mrs P didnt ask Halifax for a refund 
until five years later, I am also not convinced that she thought in July 2016 that R had 
misrepresented its services, or that that was the reason why she and her husband took it 
upon themselves to relinquish their timeshare membership. Based on that, and also based 
on the lack of evidence before Halifax in 2021, I think the bank was entitled to be sceptical 
about the assertion that R had completely stopped communicating with Mr and Mrs P.
A section 75 claim needs to be supported by evidence, but no evidence of Rs alleged lack 
of response to Mrs Ps attempts to contact it was provided at the time the claim was made, 
or in response to the two times when Halifax asked for evidence (in April and in May 2021). 
Nor was evidence provided to show that she had reported R to the police, or tried to sue R, 
in 2016. Without evidence, Halifax did not have to just take her at her word.
So I do not think that Halifax treated Mrs P unfairly when it declined her claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman