DRN-4105926
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society did not refund a series of disputed 
transactions on his account.  
What happened
Mr M says that on 14 December 2022, he was attacked and hit over the head between 2 and 
3am. He says he lost consciousness and when he came to, he was walking along a street 
and bleeding. At some point he realised his phone and wallet had been stolen. Later on that 
day, he telephoned Nationwide to report this and at that point he found out there had been a 
series of transfers made to his own account with a third party Ill call X that he did not 
recognise. These were for £500, £1,000, £2,000, £790 and £2,500. These funds were then 
withdrawn from his X account the next day as cash in increments of £250.
Mr M raised a disputed transactions claim with Nationwide and they issued a final response 
letter on 4 January 2023. In this, they explained that the IP address used to make the 
fraudulent transactions matched the same IP address used to access Mr Ms online banking 
records previously. So, the transactions were completed in the same location he used to 
conduct genuine activity in. In addition, Mr Ms online banking was accessed with no obvious 
point of compromise and the transfers went to another account in his name. So, they 
declined to refund the disputed transactions as they thought it was more likely he authorised 
the transactions himself. 
Mr M referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They felt that 
the evidence showed it was more likely Mr M made or otherwise authorised the transactions 
as the IP address used was the same one he frequently used for genuine transactions. In 
addition, the online banking activity showed biometrics were used to start the log in process 
prior to the transactions occurring at both 2:48am and 3:04am. With no other evidence to 
support Mr Ms version of events, they did not agree the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome. He felt that other evidence, such as the fact a loan 
application was made in his name, which was unsuccessful, and an increase in the overdraft 
was also attempted around the same time as the fraud, should be an indication of fraudulent 
activity.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Nationwide is able to hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
his account.
The evidence provided shows the payments were made using Mr Ms genuine mobile phone 
device. While this is important, it isnt enough on its own to say Mr M is liable for the 
transactions. Nationwide also has to show its more likely than not that Mr M himself made or 
otherwise authorised the transactions.
Nationwide has said there was not a clear point of compromise for Mr Ms mobile banking 
app and that the passcode was successfully used to set up the payment. Mr M has pointed 
out the passcode was changed so the compromise could have occurred there. I can see that 
biometrics were used to access Mr Ms mobile banking at 2:48am and again at 3:04am. So it 
is possible that a third party used Mr Ms biometrics to access the account, however they 
would have had to do so three separate times over the course of 16 minutes which I think 
makes the scenario less likely. 
Nationwide has evidenced that the IP address used to make the disputed transactions was 
the exact same IP address that Mr M had used for a significant number of genuine 
transactions via mobile banking. The IP address relates to a location linked to the internet 
activity of devices or the network used in the transaction. Nationwide has therefore relied on 
this evidence to show the transactions were carried out in the exact same location Mr M had 
previously carried out genuine transactions so they thought it was more likely these 
transactions are also genuine. 
On balance, I think it is reasonable that Nationwide has relied on this evidence. As such a 
significant number of genuine transactions relate to the exact same IP address, I think its 
more likely this IP address is linked to Mr M. So, for the disputed transactions to have 
occurred at the exact same location, I think it is reasonable that Nationwide has therefore 
held Mr M liable for them. And I dont think the evidence relating to the biometrics being used 
to access the mobile banking changes this.
Ive considered if there is any other evidence that can be relied upon. Unfortunately, Mr M 
did not approach the police prior to reporting the fraud with Nationwide and he did not visit a 
medical professional for his injuries. So, I dont have any evidence that could verify his 
version of events in more detail. I appreciate Mr Ms comments that other activity occurred 
on the account which he feels is indicative of fraudulent behaviour. But I dont think the 
overdraft increase or attempted loan application counteracts the IP address evidence 
outlined above or gives additional context around what could have happened.
Having considered everything available to me carefully, I think it was reasonable that 
Nationwide declined Mr Ms disputed transactions claim based on the evidence available to 
them at the time. And I dont direct them the refund the transactions in question.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman