DRN-2362521
The complaint
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says he was mis-sold two investment bonds by Newcastle Building Society 
(NBS) in 2005 and 2007. 
What happened
In December 2019, the CMC complained to NBS. It said Mr M had been winding down 
towards retirement and in 2004, he had encashed a stocks and shares ISA with a different 
business as well as selling his business premises. The CMC said the sale of the ISA was 
relevant to understanding Mr Ms circumstances because a complaint about that product had 
been pursued to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where it had been stated by an 
adjudicator that [it was] unlikely given [Mr Ms] age and circumstances hes told us about 
that he was willing to take a significant-if any- level of risk at this point.
The CMC said given Mr M now had some funds at his disposal, he had approached NBS for 
advice in 2005, and again in 2007. However, the CMC said the bonds recommended to him 
had the risk of a nil-return and the prospects that any gains on the investment element of the 
bonds were subject to taxation. Further, the CMC said the NBS adviser gave Mr M no 
information of his chances of making a better return than the deposit accounts on offer at the 
time. 
It also noted how the investments represented more than 50% of Mr Ms free assets, and 
this was inappropriate in his particular circumstances. The CMC said it believed the 
investments were unsuitable for a consumer on the cusp of retirement; Mr M should not 
have been advised to take a risk with the real value of his money. To resolve the complaint, 
the CMC told NBS that it felt NBS ought to look at the return for Mr Ms investments and 
undertake a comparison of investment performance against the Bank of England average 
return from fixed rate bonds. 
NBS rejected the complaint in January 2020. It said Mr M did not receive any advice when 
he took out the two bonds. It also said it believed the complaint had been made outside of 
the six and three-year time limits set out in the rules applying to this service.  
The CMC referred the complaint here. It said NBSs final response did not sufficiently explain 
why the complaint was out of time. NBS had noted how the sales were more than six years 
before the complaint had been made but it failed to take any account of the three-year time 
limit also contained within the rules.  
It also said that Mr M was adamant that he did receive advice on both occasions. The 
application form for the 2005 investment noted that Mr M required an appointment with an 
NBS adviser, because he was investing a sum greater than £10,000. Mr M also had not 
stated that he didnt require an appointment with a Personal Financial Manager  and it had 
been open to him to tick a box on the form if he didnt wish to receive such an appointment. 
The CMC said Mr M would not have placed such a large sum into a product of this nature 
without receiving tailored advice.  
NBS reiterated that it did not consent for the complaint to continue. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint and said he thought it should be 
allowed to proceed under the three-year limb of the rules. NBC reconsidered its view and 
consented to the complaint continuing. The investigator then reviewed the merits of the 
complaint.  
He concluded that he did not think the complaint should succeed. He noted that whilst Mr M 
had been passed to an NBS adviser to discuss his investment (in 2005, not in 2007) after 
the application took place, he declined a full financial review. As such, the sale was carried 
out without advice. On this basis, he considered NBSs responsibility was to ensure it gave 
concise information about how the bond worked and any risks posed to Mr M. The decision 
to proceed in 2005 (and again in 2007) rested with Mr M.  
The CMC said Mr M disagreed and wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. It 
said:
it was also clear from the evidence that Mr M was approached by NBS staff;
Mr M left the box on his application blank, to indicate he did want a discussion about 
the bond  and it should be inferred from this that he required financial advice;
even a brief discussion about taxation on products of this nature amounted to 
financial advice;
though it accepts Mr M said he didnt want a product that was without any risk at all, 
he also didnt want to take out a policy with the prospect of a nil return or, worse still 
one where the protected capital eroded due to inflation.  
NBS had no other comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the comments and evidence from both parties, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached. I dont believe this complaint should succeed.  
Before I go further, I should note that I will not be considering the view reached in Mr Ms 
separate complaint about his investment ISA (which I realise the CMC has explained was 
the prompt for the purposes of the relevant time limits and awareness of Mr Ms right to 
complain to NBS). 
That complaint is distinct from this one, and it doesnt have a bearing on my findings here. 
Thats because this complaint is factually different, and it does not arise from identical 
circumstances. Nor do the findings of the adjudicator in that complaint set a precedent or 
binding authority for this complaint. I will therefore base my findings in this complaint on the 
evidence before me as it relates to NBS and Mr M.  
Though the CMC suggests otherwise, I disagree that it is clear that Mr M was approached by 
NBS staff to consider investment bonds after the earlier encashment of his ISA and/or the 
sale of his business premises. Though this explains Mr Ms position, I cannot see any clear 
evidence regarding the prompt for the sale of either bond. In fact, very little information exists 
from the times of either sale. NBS has not retained it because of the amount of time that has 
passed since the bonds have matured, in accordance with data protection legislation.
However, NBS has been able to provide evidence of the policy applications for both sales. The 2005 investment is set out as a limited time offer for certain customers, with a Freepost 
return address, call or branch visit option should Mr M wish to apply for the bond. Mr M 
thereafter attended an NBS branch to complete verification of his identity. NBS explained 
that at the time Mr M asked about investments in branch in August 2005, it would have 
confirmed to him that all of its available products were ones were offered on an information 
only basis  it did not provide financial advice on any investment products at that time. 
It is correct that in the case of the first sale, Mr M ticked a box which recommended an 
appointment to discuss the investment for certain groups of people (including those aged 
over 65, those investing more than £10,000, and those in ill health). However, he did not do 
so on the 2007 investment, despite being aged 65 or over at the time of the second sale.  
On 1 September 2005, Mr M took out a Newcastle Balanced FTSE Choices Bond, which 
comprised a split of a fixed-rate bond with an additional investment that may produce a 
return based on the performance of the FTSE 100. On 13 April 2007, Mr M opened a 50:50 
Balanced Bond Issue 6  and this operated in a broadly similar way with a secure fixed-rate 
bond and a FTSE-based return albeit within the context of an NBS account where Mr M 
retains access to 50% of his invested funds. 
When the 2005 investment matured in 2008, Mr M made a return of £806.04 plus additional 
Early Bird interest of £141.59. However, the second bond did not make any return in 2010, 
due to the financial climate in 2008. NBS has explained that the policy terms and conditions 
set out how Mr Ms initial investment was not at risk and therefore he only received his full 
investment back plus the Early Bird interest.
Whilst I recognise that Mr M may only have had recent cause to question whether the 
products he took out were right for him, I do not agree this must mean that he was advised 
to take them out in the first instance. 
The policy terms and conditions explain the product specifications for applicants, setting out 
what the investment is and how it works, as well as considerations of the risks and whether 
the product may or may not be right for them. And it goes on to state how it is always best 
to discuss your investment options with a professional.. We can arrange an appointment with 
a Personal Financial Manager from our subsidiary company, Newcastle Financial Services 
Limited (NFSL). If youd like a no obligation appointment, please visit your local branch or 
call us [number].
I agree with the investigator that this telephone call, in the circumstances, does not appear to 
have taken the form of advice. This was an introductory call to discuss Mr M taking out the 
investment. The notes from the time of the call have been retained by NBS and these set out 
how Mr M was offered a full financial review with the NBS subsidiary company but he 
declined it because he only wanted to consider products where there wasnt a risk to his 
capital, but merely the opportunity to earn additional returns. In the case of the 2007 
application, despite the warnings on the application form, Mr M didnt tick any box at all  he 
therefore declined the option to have a further call or an appointment with a financial 
manager.
Looking at the information from both parties, my view is that Mr M was only given general 
information about the investments, and that, on balance, it is most likely he received 
guidance rather than advice. On that basis, the (COBS) suitability rules (including 
consideration of a clients investment objectives and attitude to risk) set out by the CMC did 
not apply to the sales. NBS was not required to make an assessment of Mr Ms personal and 
financial circumstances and his needs. Instead it had to ensure it provided clear information 
about how each bond would operate and plainly set out any risks so Mr M could make an 
informed decision on whether to proceed. Im satisfied that NBS did that on both occasions. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman