DRN-2662109
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank 
handled a claim she made on a purchase made using her credit card. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs H used her Tesco Bank credit card to book holiday accommodation through an 
accommodation marketplace website (the website). It cost £715.98 for a five-night 
stay. Mrs H was very unhappy with the accommodation.
Mrs H corresponded at length with the website and it ultimately agreed to refund half 
the cost of the accommodation. Mrs H asked Tesco Bank to refund the remainder of 
the cost, but it declined her request because it didnt think she had a valid claim. 
Tesco Bank could pursue Mrs Hs dispute with the website under the chargeback 
scheme. Or consider a claim under relevant parts (such as Section 56 and 
Section 75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Ive considered all of these in detail and agree with the investigator that Mrs H has a 
valid claim against Tesco Bank. This much isnt really in dispute, although I note 
Mrs H disagrees with the investigators reasoning for why she has a valid claim. 
But given each consideration (be it chargeback, Section 56 or Section 75 of the CCA)  
leads to the same overall outcome - that Mrs H has a valid claim - I see no reason to 
cover this ground again here. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider the key remaining 
dispute. Namely, whats a fair and reasonable remedy.
Mrs H was very unhappy with the accommodation. Ive seen her description of the 
accommodation itself. Ive seen the photographs she took. And Ive seen her lengthy 
correspondence with the website. Clearly the accommodation fell well short of what 
she expected. I can see where shes coming from and I sympathise.  
But I cant ignore that her and her party stayed in the accommodation for the whole 
booking. I accept there were some issues and that these will have had an impact on 
the enjoyment of her holiday. However, the core facilities of the accommodation were 
available either wholly, or predominantly. She therefore benefited from the booking. 
Overall, I think a 50% refund is a fair remedy here. It follows that I dont think I can 
fairly require Tesco Bank to provide a refund further to that provided by the website.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman