DRN-1723768
The complaint
Miss B complained about U K Insurance Limited. She wasnt happy with the way it handled 
her car insurance claim. Miss B is represented by Mr C, a named driver on the policy who 
made the claim related to the complaint. Therefore, Ill refer to Mr C throughout this decision    
What happened
Mr C was involved in an accident and made a claim under the policy. When he reported the 
accident he was told that UKI would look into things for him. But it did explain that it was 
possible that the matter would be settled on a split liability basis (50/50). 
But it failed to investigate the matter and just marked the incident as a fault claim and settled 
the matter without question or investigation. UKI acknowledged it shouldnt have done this 
and offered £100 compensation by way of apology and waived half of the excess. In effect, it 
looked to treat the claim as if it had been settled on a split liability basis. Mr C wasnt happy 
about this and complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He was of the view that 
UKI hadnt investigated the claim properly and this had prejudiced Mr C. So he thought the 
claim should be marked non-fault and that Mr C should be given £350 compensation. This 
was because it didnt investigate the matter sufficiently, gave Mr C a poor service and a false 
expectation about how the claim would be advanced.
UKI didnt agree and said that there wasnt sufficient evidence to say that Mr C wasnt at 
fault. And that the matter shouldve been settled 50/50 which it had tried to do now. It also 
thought the £100 compensation it provided as it didnt do this in the first instance was fair. 
When another investigator looked at the matter she agreed that there wasnt enough 
evidence to say that the claim should be marked as non-fault, but she agreed that £350 
compensation seemed fair.
Mr C accepted this but UKI still didnt agree. So the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision and the sole remaining issue, 
the level of compensation that should be provided in relation to UKIs error and poor service. 
I will highlight that part of Mr Cs complaint, referred to the way liability was settled. Insurers 
are required to record claims on the Claims and Underwriter Exchange (CUE), and a 
successful claim will either be recorded as fault or non fault. In this case, UKI investigated 
the circumstances, but only after Mr C raised his complaint. However, UKI felt the best 
possible outcome for Mr C wouldve been a 50/50 split of liability. This has the same effect 
on Mr Cs premium renewals and No Claims Discount (NCD) as a fault claim and is also 
recorded in a similar way. 
Its not for our service to tell an insurer how liability should be decided, and as Mr C has 
accepted the fault claim against him I wont go over the detail of the liability claim again. But I 
will say that I think UKI has recorded the claim correctly and I havent seen any evidence to 
say that the claim should be marked non-fault.
Turning to the level of compensation I agree with the investigators that the award should be 
lifted. It is accepted that the level of service UKI provided wasnt up to the standard UKI and 
Mr G would expect. It looked to acknowledge this early on and offered £100 compensation. 
But I dont think this goes far enough. I can understand why our first investigator took the 
stance they did regarding liability as they believed UKIs poor investigation and 
communication couldve prejudiced Mr Cs position. And while I cant be sure about this 
(given that both drivers didnt quite understand how the accident happened) UKIs lack of 
investigation leaves the possibility open. 
The first call takers poor handling of Mr Cs initial call prevented this being looked at 
properly. And Mr C went on holiday expecting the matter to be investigated fully. UKI 
shouldnt have recorded the claim as fault at that stage and shouldve investigated the 
circumstances surrounding the claim. 
Mr C made the reasonable assumption that his insurer would follow the correct process and 
investigate the claim fairly and reasonably. Unfortunately, that didnt happen and theres no 
doubt that returning from his holiday to find the claim had been recorded as a fault against 
him caused upset for Mr C. It also caused him inconvenience, as he had to spend time 
getting the matter resolved. 
What sways me to lift the compensation level, is that although UKI believes that liability was 
always likely to be settled as a 50/50 split at best, it accepts it cant know this for certain. 
This means Mr C has been left feeling that his claim wasnt dealt with fairly or reasonably by 
UKI; hes been let down by its poor service; and ultimately the details and costs of the 
incident arent recorded correctly. So I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for UKI to 
pay £350 compensation.
My final decision
It follows, for these reasons, that my decision is to partly uphold Miss Bs complaint. U K 
Insurance Limited should pay Miss B £350 (total) compensation. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision 
before 6 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman