DRN-4289345
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy because The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined a 
claim she made on her critical illness plan.  
What happened
Mrs D had a critical illness plan linked to her mortgage. In 2021 she made a claim for Total 
and Permanent Disability (TPD) due to her mental health but the claim was declined. Mrs D 
complained but Royal London maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Mrs D made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D provided an independent 
medical report with more information about her health. This didnt change Royal Londons 
view about the claim. However, the investigator thought it demonstrated she now met the 
policy definition of TPD. So, he recommended that the claim was paid. 
Royal London didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, 
they said that they didnt think the medical evidence suggested Mrs D was permanently and 
irreversibly disabled. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Royal London has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy defines TPD as: 
The Life Assured being permanently and irreversibly disabled to the extent of being 
unable to perform his normal occupation or any occupation to which he is suited by 
way of education, experience or training, in the opinion of a Specialist Consultant
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint because I think shes provided enough evidence to 
demonstrate she has a valid claim under the policy. I say that because: 
Mrs D was diagnosed with a mental health condition. Shes accessed treatment 
and support from her GP and the community mental health team since she 
stopped work due to her illness. Mrs D also was admitted as an in-patient for a 
short period of time when she first became unwell. 
I think the available medical evidence demonstrates that shes unable to work 
due to a number of symptoms she experiences as a result of the deterioration in 
her mental health. I dont think the medical evidence suggests that Mrs D is likely 
to recover to an extent where shell be able to return to her own occupation or a 
suited one. For example, shes unable to leave the house or drive and she finds it 
very difficult to communicate verbally as her condition has affected her speech. 
I dont agree that the independent medical report is of no assistance in this case. 
Although the report was prepared for another insurer it gives a detailed insight 
into Mrs Ds health during the relevant period of time. It was prepared by an 
independent consultant psychiatrist who had access to Mrs Ds medical history. 
He concluded that Mrs D was permanently prevented from returning to her 
occupation due to the severity of her depressive illness. It also noted that the 
barriers for Mrs D returning to work were considerable, even if Mrs D worked for 
another employer. So, I think it is reasonable to rely on the report, given the 
contents and purpose of it. The conclusions of this report are also consistent with 
the other medical evidence Ive been provided with.  
Ive taken into account the comments from Royal Londons Chief Medical Officer, 
including what hes said about some of the treatment options that may be 
available to Mrs D. However, I find the other medical evidence and the 
independent report more persuasive in the circumstances of this case. Mrs Ds 
treating team have the benefit of engaging with her regularly and the independent 
consultant had the benefit of a virtual meeting with Mrs D. I think they were better 
able to assess the impact of Mrs Ds symptoms and the likelihood of her being 
able to return to her own occupation or another suited one. So, the CMOs 
comments havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this 
complaint.   
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct Royal London to put things right by accepting Mrs Ds 
claim and settling it in line with the remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman