DRN-2847605
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly charged him when he went overdrawn.
What happened
Mr L tells this service that Santander has unfairly charged him unarranged overdraft fees 
and unpaid direct debit fees from 2009. He says he contacted Santander on a number of 
occasions about the charges and it didnt help him. He says that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties at the time and the charges Santander applied to his account only made 
things worse.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said that it had fairly applied the charges, and it 
had already refunded or waived some of charges as a gesture of goodwill, and so it wasnt 
prepared to refund anymore.
An ombudsman has already looked at Mr Ls complaint in respect of which part of his 
complaint we can consider. That ombudsman said that we couldnt look at any charges that 
were applied to Mr Ls account prior to January 2014  because he complained about these 
charges too late. Mr L doesnt agree with this, but it has been explained to him that this 
service doesnt have the power to consider any part of his complaint that was made out of 
time, and so we can only look at charges that were applied to his account after January 
2014.
Our investigator looked into the charges applied to Mr Ls account after January 2014. She 
found that the charges had been applied correctly and in line with the terms and conditions  
and so she didnt think Santander had done anything wrong when it added the charges. She 
also acknowledged what Santander knew about Mr Ls circumstances at that time  in that 
he was experiencing financial difficulty. But she found that Santander had treated Mr L 
positively and sympathetically by refunding or waiving some of the charges, and so she 
didnt think Santander should do anything else for Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree. He still asked for the all charges from 2009 to be considered. And he sent 
this service some information he found about charges to support why he thinks he should 
get a refund of all charges. 
Because Mr L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Id like to reiterate that this decision will only be considering the charges applied to Mr Ls 
account from 2014. The rules that this service must apply dont allow me to consider the 
charges that were applied to Mr Ls account before this date  because he complained about 
them too late. I am entirely bound by the provision of these rules and I cannot disregard 
them. If I did, any decision I reached wouldnt be enforceable in court. 
Santander will be aware of the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether it treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying overdraft 
charges. Ive taken these things into account when coming to my decision. 
Ive looked carefully at the charges that have been applied to Mr Ls account since 2014. I 
can see that he has been charged a total of £287 since 2014  for the use of an unarranged 
overdraft and for unpaid direct debit/standing order fees. Ive also looked at the charging 
tariffs and the terms and conditions that would have applied to Mr Ls account at the time of 
each charge. 
I can see that on each occasion Mr L was charged, he did go overdrawn or he didnt have 
enough money in his account for a direct debit/standing order to be collected - he was 
charged the correct tariff on each occasion. So, I dont find that the charges had been 
incorrectly applied to Mr Ls account, or that there had been a mistake in how much 
Santander charged him. 
But just because Santander applied the charges in line with its terms and conditions, doesnt 
necessarily mean that it was fair of it to apply the charges  this would depend on the 
individual circumstances of the complaint. In addition to this, Santander would be expected 
to treat Mr L positively and sympathetically if it became aware he was experiencing financial 
difficultly. But this doesnt automatically mean Santander needed to refund or suspend 
charges.
Some of the notes Santander has provided me with confirm that Mr L let it know he was 
experiencing financial difficulty. So its clear that Santander were aware of some of the 
financial issues Mr L had faced over the years. That means I now need to consider if 
Santander treated Mr L positively and sympathetically in light of what it knew  and I think it 
has. 
Ive noted that Santander has told this service that it has refunded or waived a total of £153 
worth of charges. Mr L doesnt believe this to be the case, and so Ive checked his 
transaction history to be sure. I can see that Santander has provided Mr L with a total refund 
of £153 since 2014, and so Im satisfied that it has tried to help Mr L when he asked for it. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think Santander has treated Mr L positively and 
sympathetically. It has agreed to refund more than half of the charges it has applied to his 
account, and I think this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman