DRN-3359534
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
AvantCredit disagreed with the adjudicators assessment saying that Mr C was consolidating 
his other credit with his loans and so that put him in a better financial position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
I think the term and cost of the loans should have prompted AvantCredit to take its 
checks further to include verifying Mr Cs living costs as well.
For loan 1, AvantCredit didnt provide details of the credit commitments Mr C was 
looking to consolidate with the borrowing, from what I can see it worked this out after 
the adjudicators view. This suggests that at the time of the loan, AvantCredit didnt 
consider which commitments Mr C was looking to consolidate and how any 
consolidation would have impacted his monthly commitments.
Even if I accept what AvantCredit says now about the consolidation, I think that had it 
taken its checks further, it is likely to have found that Mr C was struggling to manage 
his finances and reliant on credit to survive. Ive used Mr Cs bank statements from 
around the time of the loan to understand his outgoings and I can see that he was 
regularly borrowing from several high cost short term lenders and using other credit 
facilities like credit card and mail order. In addition to this, Mr C lived in his overdraft 
and which suggests to me that he needed to borrow for his day to day living. 
By the time of loan 2, Mr Cs credit commitments had significantly increased and 
again he said he was borrowing the loan for consolidation, I think AvantCredit should 
have been aware by now that Mr C continued to be reliant on credit as it was clear he 
hadnt been able to free himself from debt.
In the circumstances, AvantCredit shouldnt have lent any of the loans. Id remind 
AvantCredit that it was required to check that Mr C could repay the loan without his 
finances suffering adversely and not just that the loan was affordable on a pound and 
pence calculation.
On this basis, I have concluded that Avantcredit shouldnt have lent the loans to Mr C 
and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on both loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about both loans from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman