DRN-3663879
The complaint
Mr K complains that £25 compensation paid to him by Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd is 
inadequate in respect of admitted delays when transferring his cash ISA from another 
financial services provider. He was charged an account fee for Vanguards poor service and 
he feels the significant distress and inconvenience he was caused warrants a compensation 
payment of around £300. 
What happened
Mr K initially sent his transfer request to Vanguard on 26 December 2021. On 29 December 
2021, Mr K completed an ISA transfer authority enabling Vanguard to request transfer of his 
cash ISA from a third party financial business to Vanguard. The transfer completed on 
31 January 2022 when Vanguard received a cheque for the transfer amount.
Mr K complained to Vanguard about how long the transfer had taken. 
Vanguard upheld Mr Ks complaint. It acknowledged it had been responsible for delays 
processing his transfer and for this, it paid £25 into Mr Ks bank account by way of an 
apology. Vanguard said feedback had been provided about concerns Mr K had raised 
concerning the tone used in its dealings with him.
Mr K didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator felt that the redress paid by Vanguard wasnt enough to reflect the full 
extent of the impact on Mr K of Vanguards service failings and recommended that 
Vanguard should pay Mr K a further £75 for the trouble and upset it was responsible for 
causing him. She didnt identify any investment loss so she didnt recommend that 
Vanguard needed to do anything more.
Mr K disagreed with our investigator asked for an ombudsman to consider and review his 
complaint - so it comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as I can see, theres no dispute about the background facts, including the timeline of 
events, and Vanguard has upheld Mr Ks complaint. So, Ive concentrated on the question 
of fair redress, which is Mr Ks main concern now and the reason he has requested an 
ombudsman referral.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. I might not mention everything Mr K has brought to my attention, 
but I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Theres further information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. 
I sympathise with Mr Ks frustration at the delay he encountered when it took longer than it 
shouldve done to carry out his transfer instructions. Mr K was repeatedly in contact with 
Vanguard trying to chase things up. And even on 25 January 2022, some weeks after 
Vanguard could have actioned his transfer request, Vanguard appears to have incorrectly 
told Mr K it hadnt received his form  despite having received this duly completed by Mr K 
almost a month earlier. Vanguard admitted it had finally posted off his signed transfer form 
on 26th January 2021  which was a significant delay, even after allowing for the Christmas 
and New Year holiday season. A cheque payable to Vanguard was issued by the third party 
a couple of days later, leading to completion of the transfer process. So it seems clear that, 
but for Vanguards delay, the transfer could have been completed sooner  and without 
much of the stress suffered by Mr K. 
I can appreciate the delays and misinformation were a significant worry for Mr K. There was 
a substantial sum of money involved and Mr K was entitled to expect the transfer to 
complete within 30 days. 
I've carefully taken into account the frustration and worry Mr K undoubtedly experienced as a 
result of Vanguards admitted service failings and the extra trouble he was put to having to 
chase things up in order to progress the transfer  particularly when he was given wrong 
information by Vanguard about whether or not it had received his signed transfer authority. 
Vanguard believes the redress it has already paid reflects guidance we have issued and said 
it is in line with payments it has made to other clients in similar circumstances. But I think 
that Vanguards payment of £25 falls short of what I would consider fair compensation to 
reflect the significant distress and inconvenience it caused Mr K resulting from its failure to 
process his transfer authority within a reasonable timescale. 
In the event, broadly speaking, Mr Ks transfer request was completed within a little over a 
month. I find that a payment of £100 overall is fair redress to reflect the impact on Mr K of 
the admitted shortcomings on the part of Vanguard and the poor service issues I have 
mentioned above, throughout the time it took for his transfer instruction to complete.I havent seen enough to show that Mr K has suffered any investment loss or that hes lost 
out in money terms any other way. So Im not telling Vanguard to do anything further. 
Putting things right
As Vanguard has paid £25 already, it should pay Mr K a further £75 to put things right.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd to make a payment to 
Mr K so that he receives total compensation of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman