DRN-2310073
The complaint
Mr W complains that he has been unfairly charged by Henderson Investment Funds Limited 
(trading as Janus Henderson Investors). 
What happened
Mr W holds a fund managed by Henderson  the Janus Henderson European Selected 
Opportunities Fund, which he took out in 1999 through another business that Henderson 
took over in 2011. He held his investment in the A class, however in April 2019 Henderson 
wrote to him and informed him that they were going to move him to the newly created E 
class.
The letter said that the benefit of moving to the E class was that it had a management fee 
that was 0.5% lower than that of the A class (which had a management fee of 1.5%). The 
letter also went on to explain that historically, management fees were set at a level which 
included payments to financial advisors who would receive part of the fee as payment for 
their advice. 
However, as Mr W didnt have an advisor associated with his investment, he could benefit 
from being in a class with a lower fee. And as a result of recent changes to the guidance 
published by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), they were now able to 
move his investment to a new, cheaper E Class that they would be launching specifically for 
this purpose.
Mr W queried the management fees hed been historically charged, he explained that hed 
never used a financial advisor in relation to this investment and asked to know more about 
who the payments had been made to and for what purpose. 
Henderson replied and said, in summary:
The fees hadnt been charged in error because they were the standard fee for the 
share class available to retail clients at the time whether or not there was a financial 
advisor listed on an account.
The annual management charge was comparable with those on the retail share 
classes of similar actively managed equity funds both at Henderson and at other 
firms.
The FCA published changes to rules allowing asset managers to move investors 
without an advisor in the UK to new share classes in April 2018. No deadline for the 
implementation had been set by the FCA. 
The annual management charge for the European Selected Opportunities Fund A 
(Acc) was 1.50%.
Mr W then complained to Henderson as he wasnt satisfied with their explanation. He said, in 
summary:
He wasnt aware that he was paying a fee for financial advice and he didn't have a 
financial advisor or receive financial advice in relation to this investment. 
Whilst it wasnt confirmed where the fees have gone, it was clear to him the service 
wasn't being, or hadn't been, provided. 
He was concerned that he hadn't received sufficient information from them regarding 
charges. 
The portion of the fee that was intended to be paid to advisors appeared to be 0.5%. 
Hed calculated that if he had been paying 1% instead of 1.5% his investment would 
be worth £2,698 more than it did at the time.
Henderson didnt uphold his complaint. They reiterated that the same fund charges applied 
to all investors in the same share class and said that they were entitled to take charges out 
of the fund in payment for carrying out their duties and responsibilities. 
They said the introduction of the new E share class was in response to recent changes to
rules by the FCA. The changes were not retrospective and didnt mean that historic charges 
were incorrect or unfair. They maintained that retail clients without financial advisors were 
not charged more in comparison to retail clients with advisors. 
Mr W didnt accept their findings so he brought it to this service where it was considered by 
one of our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he didnt 
think Henderson had treated Mr W unfairly or acted against any of the regulators principles. 
This was because before the introduction of the E Class shares, theyd charged their 
customers a standard fee whether they received financial advice or not. 
He explained that FCAs Retail Distribution Review (RDR) meant that businesses were no 
longer allowed to pass on any of their charges to financial advisors. However, there was no 
requirement for businesses to change their existing fees or refund any of the existing 
payments to customers who hadnt received financial advice. And in April 2018 the FCA 
introduced further guidelines which allowed businesses to introduce new share classes and 
move their directly invested customers to these new classes with lower charges. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings and clarified that his complaint wasnt that 
hed been charged excessive or incorrect fees. He said:
He was complaining about how the fees were described and the information he 
received. He didnt think hed received enough information from Henderson or the 
predecessor business about the charges until April 2019, to allow him to make 
proper decisions about his investments.
The implication of the RDR was that a lack of transparency is unfair to the consumer. 
At the very least it would have been fair for Henderson to inform him that he was 
paying the equivalent of trail commission.
There wasn't just a lack of transparency, there was also deliberate misdescription as 
the fee charged was described as a management fee to manage the fund, this was 
not a fair or accurate description of the fee.
Henderson had now revealed that the fees were set at a level to include commission 
payments to financial advisors. 
Commission fees for financial advice were nothing to do with managing the fund, so 
a fee for one cannot describe the inclusion of a fee for the other. The management 
fee should reflect the level of ongoing management of the fund. 
We should consider who should receive the benefit of fees set at a level to include 
payments to a financial advisor who didn't exist. Should that be the company that 
charged that payment without telling their client or should it be the client who in 
effect was acting as their own financial advisor?
The regulators rules from 2012, which addressed the unfairness of trail commission 
payments, didnt adequately consider the unfairness to a direct investor.Whilst there may not be a requirement to refund these payments there is 
nevertheless advice given by the FCA to address the inherent unfairness of these 
charges for the consumers who were aware they had financial advisors but there 
was no such advice for consumers who invested directly. 
He was surprised that the investigator didnt see any unfairness in an investment 
company charging what is described as a fund management fee, which, undeclared 
to the investor, is set at a level to include commission payments to an intermediary 
financial advisor who doesn't actually exist. And he couldnt agree that there was no 
unfairness to address. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
I fully understand the point Mr W has made and his strength of feeling about having been 
charged the same as investors who had the benefit of an associated financial advisor. I note 
the point hes made in regard to the lack of transparency around fees and Ive carefully 
considered what hes said.
But to uphold his complaint I would have to be satisfied that Henderson had either done
something wrong in not providing more detail around their fees or not offering a separate 
share class with lower fees for investors who didnt have a financial advisor. Ive considered 
what Hendersons regulatory requirements were and what was good industry practice at the 
time.
When Mr W first invested, the costs of funds were paid for by what is generally known as
bundled charges - so the charges of financial advisers, platform providers and the fund
managers themselves were all bundled together into one fee paid by all investors into a
fund. Due to the passage of time, there is no documentation available from when Mr W took 
out the investment but I think it is more likely than not that he would have been made aware 
and agreed to the fees that Henderson were charging for the investment.
The regulator then carried out the RDR and implemented new rules from 2012. The RDR 
had the effect of changing the way in which businesses communicated and applied their fees 
and charges to retail investors. However, it was mainly focused on investors with a financial 
advisor and charges that were being paid to the advisors without the investors being aware 
of these charges. 
Crucially, there was no requirement to move investors like Mr W who invested without an 
advisor pre-RDR to clean funds (with lower fees due to no commission payments to 
advisors) or to inform them that they were paying a management fee which was potentially 
set at a level to include commission payments to an advisor. Generally, fund managers will set their fees taking into account several factors, including 
income theyd receive from charges, their costs and the expected profit margin. Mr W was 
paying an annual management charge to Henderson which theyd made clear to him and 
was therefore transparent. Theyd always kept all of the fee and nothing about that ever 
changed. One of the reasons the regulator didnt account for direct investors in RDR is that 
there wasnt the same lack of transparency. While Henderson were making more from 
consumers like Mr W, the fees he was paying wasnt hidden from him and it was up to him to 
decide where to invest based on factors relevant to him, including charges.
So while I appreciate Mr Ws points about unfairness, Im not persuaded that Henderson 
were acting outside of the regulators rules at the time. I also dont think that Mr W was being 
treated any differently to any other investor in the fund. All investors, whether they had an 
advisor or not, were being charged the same fee which theyd agreed to when they took out 
the investment. 
The FCA continued to look into the matter of fees and charges over the next few years. They 
published their thematic review on the clarity of fund charges in 2014 and there was also 
further guidance provided by legislation, including the regulation on key information 
documents for packaged retail and insurance based investment products (PRIIPs 
Regulation) and the revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II). The rules 
and guidance which subsequently came into place had the result of a clearer distinction 
between advice charges, product charges and platform charges.
In 2017 the FCA completed the final report on their Asset Management Market Study with 
new guidance being set out in its subsequent policy statement in April 2018. This study 
specifically mentioned concerns about the scenarios where investors were in relatively 
expensive share classes when cheaper versions were available and where investors were in 
pre-RDR share classes but the fund manager was no longer paying trail commission to an 
advisor. This led to changes across the industry to ensure that investors were getting value 
for money and identification of barriers to moving investors to cheaper share classes while 
ensuring they maintained rights they previously held. 
The 2018 guidance removed the need for the fund provider to get consent from each 
individual investor before converting them from their current share class to a new clean 
share class. This allowed fund managers to easily move investors to new share classes. But 
they were not required to make any retrospective changes and importantly, there was no 
requirement or direction to refund the portion of the fees which were historically paid to 
advisors. 
Henderson responded to the new guidance and direction from the regulator and moved 
investors, including Mr W to the cheaper share class in 2019. I think this was a reasonable 
timescale in the circumstances and taking everything into consideration, I dont think they 
needed to do any more in terms of refunding any fees previously paid by investors. 
Ultimately, its a commercial decision for Henderson to offer different share classes and set 
fees and charges at a level they see fit to. Mr W paid the fees hed agreed with Henderson 
for a number of years before Henderson decided to offer a new share class with cheaper 
fees and transferred him into it. Taking everything into account I dont think it was wrong of 
them not to do so earlier. 
I understand why Mr W thinks he didnt receive enough information about the fees and that 
they were misdescribed. But as Ive said before, Henderson were allowed to set fees at a 
level they saw fit provided they let investors know what the overall fee was. If Mr W wasnt 
happy with the level of fees, then he could have taken steps to move to a fund with lower 
charges. So I dont think it was unfair for Henderson to charge Mr W what they did given that they 
made him aware what their charges were. And there was no direction to move investors in 
his situation to a cheaper share class until the regulator issued its final guidance in 2018. 
There was also no direction from the regulator to refund any part of historic fees to investors. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think I can fairly ask Henderson to refund any 
fees to Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman