DRN-3490718
The complaint
Mr B complains that PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, restricted his account and withheld 
his funds. And hed like his funds returned.
What happened
Mr B had an account with PayrNet, trading as Pockit. In June 2021 Mr B explained that he 
sold a van, and most of the funds  £1,300  were transferred into his account with Pockit. 
Soon after the payment was received Pockit restricted Mr Bs account. He complained to the 
business, but they didnt release his funds or uphold his complaint. 
So Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
In October 2021 Pockit let Mr B know theyd return his funds if he provided an identification 
document and a current account bank statement. Mr B provided the documents, and Pockit 
advised on 7 December 2021 theyd returned his funds. However, Mr B didnt receive them.
Our investigator asked Pockit the reasons why theyd withheld Mr Bs funds  but they didnt 
provide any of the information requested despite numerous requests. So our investigator 
reached her conclusions on the information already provided. 
Our investigator concluded that Pockit hadnt acted fairly in withholding Mr Bs funds, so 
directed the business to pay him £1,300, plus 8% interest from June 2021 to the date of 
release and £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him.
Mr B accepted our investigators view, but Pockit didnt respond. 
So its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to assess whether I think Pockit have acted fairly in withholding Mr Bs funds 
based on the evidence weve received. Mr Bs explained that he sold a van, and received 
most of the payment via his Pockit account  a total of £1,300. As our investigator explained 
in her view, our service has asked Pockit on several occasions to provide information on 
their reasons for withholding Mr Bs funds. In most circumstances Id expect Mr B to provide 
proof of entitlement for any funds which are withheld  but as Pockit havent provided any 
evidence to show why the funds were withheld and the business has already agreed to 
release them, Im satisfied that Mr B doesnt need to provide any further proof.
For the reasons outlined above I dont think Pockit acted fairly in withholding Mr Bs funds. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Pockit didnt act fairly in withholding Mr Bs funds, and caused him anxiety 
in failing to release his funds as they agreed to. And this has caused him inconvenience. For 
this reason Ill be asking Pockit to compensate Mr B £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct PayrNet Limited to:
Pay Mr B £1,300, plus 8% simple interest (calculated per annum) on the balance  
this is applicable from the date they blocked the account until the funds are returned.
Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him.
If HMRC requires PayrNet Limited to pay tax on this interest, PayrNet Limited should provide 
Mr B with a certificate showing how this is calculated if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman