DRN-2159853
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed registering a default with credit reference 
agencies after he fell behind on his loan repayments.
What happened
In early 2016, Mr G began to have difficulty making his loan repayments, which were around 
£500 a month. HSBC agreed a payment plan of £128 per month for three months. Mr G paid 
according to the arrangement. But in July 2016 he told HSBC hed lost his job. Hed found 
another one to begin in August, but hed struggle repaying his loan until then.
HSBC agreed another payment arrangement of £128 a month, starting in August 2016. But 
Mr G didnt make any further payments until November 2016, when he started to pay the 
loan instalments of around £500 a month. So, his account remained in arrears.
 
HSBC sent Mr G several letters asking him to bring his account up to date. In April 2018, 
HSBC closed his account and passed the outstanding debt to its internal recovery agents. At 
the same time, it registered a default on Mr Gs credit file which was to remain on there for 
six years.
 
Mr G later complained that HSBC should have registered the default sooner. He thought it 
should have been registered back in 2016, when he first fell behind on his loan repayments. 
HSBC didnt agree, so Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought HSBC should have registered the default in March 2017 because HSBC had 
sent Mr G a final demand for full payment of over £22,000 within 18 days. He couldnt see 
that Mr G had made the payment or been in touch with HSBC to discuss the letter. 
Following our investigators view, HSBC agreed to backdate the default to March 2017. Mr G 
agreed with this but didnt think it was enough to resolve his complaint. He felt he should be 
compensated for the inconvenience hed experience when trying to sort this out. He said 
hed lost out on the chance to buy a house because he couldnt get a mortgage that was 
affordable to him. 
HSBC offered to pay Mr G £250 to compensate him for the impact of its actions, but Mr G 
didnt think this was enough. Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was fair, so he didnt 
recommend it do anything more. Mr G remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
 
The relevant industry guidance says a default may be recorded if a borrower falls into 
arrears on an account to show that the relationship between them and the lender has broken 
down.
Following our investigators view, HSBC has told us it arranged for the default on Mr Gs 
credit file to be backdated to March 2017. I think this is fair. I dont think it would have been 
appropriate for HSBC to apply a default when Mr G first fell behind on his payments (in April 
2016) because he agreed an arrangement to pay and made payments in line with this. 
Although, Mr G broke his second arrangement and missed a few months payments, he 
started to pay his full instalments again in November 2016. But Mr G didnt respond to the 
final demand HSBC sent him on 6 March 2017 requiring him to pay his full debt within 18 
days of the letter. The demand also said details of Mr Gs default had been given to credit 
reference agencies. So, I think it was clear that the relationship between Mr G and HSBC 
had broken down by this point and the default should have been applied then.
 
While Mr G has accepted the default being backdated to March 2017, he doesnt think the 
£250 HSBC has offered is enough to compensate him for the impact the delay in applying 
the default has had on him.
Mr G says this affected his ability to get a mortgage at an affordable interest rate. His 
mortgage broker told him that mortgage providers dont usually take defaults that are more 
than two years old into consideration. So, he feels he would have been able to find a suitable 
mortgage if HSBC had applied the default when it should have done.
Mr G has provided a letter from his mortgage broker which says the default meant they 
werent able to apply to any high street lenders as it was outside of their policies. This 
meant they needed to look at sub-prime lenders whose interest rates are higher than the rest 
of the market and who also restrict the loan to value percentage they will lend at. As a result, 
they were unable to find Mr G a mortgage that fit his needs and the lenders lending criteria.
I know Mr G feels strongly that he would have been able to find a suitable mortgage if the 
default had originally been applied in March 2017, rather than April 2018. But lenders base 
their decisions to lend on several criteria. And I havent seen anything that shows me the 
only reason Mr G wasnt able to find a suitable mortgage was because of the date of the 
default. So, I havent seen strong enough evidence to persuade me that Mr G missed out on 
getting a mortgage because of HSBCs actions.
I dont doubt that this has been a frustrating and inconvenient experience for Mr G. And I 
think HSBC should pay him some compensation for this. But I think the £250 HSBC has 
offered to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced is reasonable.
 
Putting things right
HSBC should:
Backdate the default on Mr Gs credit file to 6 March 2017. I understand it has 
already done this.
Pay Mr G £250 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman