DRN-2712967
The complaint
Mr B complains that Funding Circle Ltd has unfairly introduced a transfer payment on his
crowdfunding account. He also complains about lengthy delays in him being able to access
his funds.
What happened
Mr B opened a loan-based crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in February 2017.
Funding Circles platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return
for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is
looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of
Mr Bs complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a
way for investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by
way of a secondary market.
In June 2019 Mr B decided he needed to access his fund held in his account, so he put
his loan parts up for sale on the secondary market. At that time, Mr B says Funding Circles
website confirmed an average selling time of 60 days. Although Funding Circle continued to
provide frequent updates on sale times, these times continued to increase until Funding
Circle stopped providing information at the end of October 2019. Mr B complained to
Funding Circle as although he understood the risks involved around liquidity on the
secondary market, he felt it was taking too long to sell his loan parts.
Mr B also raised a complaint about a new transfer payment Funding Circle was introducing
in December 2019, which would apply to loan parts he currently had for sale on the
secondary market. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all loan parts
sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought the individual
loan parts. He said this put him in an unfair position because, if he didnt accept the change,
hed have to wait for his loans to mature before getting his money back. He was also
unhappy that as part of the changes, Funding Circle replaced its queuing system with a
selling tool whereby investors requesting to access their funds early would join a pool and
would be able to transfer loan parts on a rolling basis. Whilst Mr B understood the need for
the change due to the increased selling wait times, he felt the changes significantly
disadvantages those who had already been queuing for a long period of time.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary it said:
The ability and time taken to sell loan parts on the secondary market is not, and has 
never been, guaranteed. While the secondary market provides an option for those 
investors who wish to access their funds early, it has always taken care to explain 
that the time to sell is dependent on demand from other investors.
Its terms and conditions state that sale requests that are not successful within 120 
days will be delisted from the secondary market. However, it paused this delisting 
process while it conducted its secondary market review.
It acknowledged that the sales queue had increased, and that the 1.25% transfer 
payment was introduced to help reduce it.
It clarified that this isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a payment 
made to the buyers of the loan parts. 
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans.
So Mr B could access his funds whilst avoiding paying this transfer fee if he switched 
off his lending facility and withdrew his monthly repayments on his loan parts.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mr Bs consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair 
notice given.
Mr B didnt accept this and so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions explain that, If you want to have access to any 
funds that have already been lent, you will need to transfer your Loan Parts by selling 
them to other Investors.
The investor guide clarifies that loan parts can be sold but that its subject to demand 
from other investors and the terms and conditions explain that there is no guarantee
 on the length of time this process may take.
The terms and conditions allow Funding Circle to make amendments and it had given 
enough notice to Mr B of the changes.
There was no guarantee that Mr B would have sold all his loan parts if the changes 
werent made.
Mr B had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales queue if he wasnt happy 
with the changes.
Ultimately, Mr B was complaining about the length of time it was taking to sell his 
loan parts and so this new transfer payment could act as incentive for investors to 
buy his loan parts sooner.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said that a platforms fee is an important
factor in his decision as to whether to investment or not and so he felt it was unfair for
Funding Circle to introduce the new fee now, especially considering he made his request to
sell before the fee was introduced.
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2021, explaining why I didnt intend to uphold
this complaint. I include this below.
My provisional findings
I understand that Mr B feels quite strongly that the transfer payment Funding Circle has
introduced is a fee, which is to his detriment when it comes to selling his loan parts on the
secondary market. However, I dont agree that the transfer payment is a fee. Instead Id
consider it to be a repricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the secondary
market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed that they dont receive any money from
the transfer payment and rather its paid directly to investors who purchase the individual
loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount incentive to these buyers.Therefore, I think there are two potential questions that I need to consider in order to fairly
and reasonably determine Mr Bs complaint:
Did Funding Circle make it clear to Mr B that selling his loan parts on the secondary 
market was not guaranteed?
Was it fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Bs loan parts on the secondary market?
Before Im able to answer these questions, Ive considered the relevant regulatory and legal
framework.
the regulatory and legal framework
Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The
relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the
FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are PRIN 2.1.1R (2) which says:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Funding Circle is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are COBS 2.1.1R (1)
which says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client.
And COBS 4.2.1R (1) which says:
A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and
not misleading.
Ive also considered these relevant rules and regulations when reaching my provisional
decision.
Did Funding Circle make it clear to Mr B that selling his loan parts on the secondary market
was not guaranteed?
When Mr B opened his account, he agreed to Funding Circles terms and conditions. These
explained:
Funding Circle does not guarantee that loan parts listed for sale will be bought by
other investors or the time it will take to withdraw funds from Funding Circle by selling
loan parts;
Therefore, Im satisfied that Funding Circle made it clear to Mr B that it wasnt guaranteed
that he could sell his loan parts on the secondary market. Its also apparent from Mr Bssubmissions that he was fully aware of the risks involved in investing in crowdfunding,
especially around the liquidity issues with selling loan parts early. So I dont think Funding
Circle mis-led Mr B regarding his ability to sell on the secondary market.
Was it fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Bs loan parts on the secondary market?
Mr B was sent an email in October 2019 from Funding Circle to explain that it was
introducing the transfer payment which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email also
explained that Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new terms and conditions explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous terms and conditions which Mr B agreed to when opening his account:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we no
longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and it is common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand that Mr B doesnt think
it was fair for Funding Circle to introduce the transfer payment by way of this variation
clause. However, its not my role to determine if Funding Circle were legally able to include a
clause like this in its terms and conditions. That would be something for a Court to decide.
However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference contained in section 228 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond the strict terms and conditions
to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
As previously explained, the transfer payment is not a charge or fee received by Funding
Circle. Its a payment made by the sellers of a loan part to the buyer of that loan part. This
acts as a discount applied to a loan valuation at the point of sale on the secondary market
and prior to end of the loan term.
In June 2019 the FCA published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and
investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the
FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should reprice
loans, by way of introducing new rules into COBS.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of the
P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that theprice offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Bs case, Funding Circle were facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan parts
on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Bs loan parts are fair and appropriate.
Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment of 1.25% to all loans which are sold in
this way. So in order to determine whether this is fair and appropriate its important to
understand what considerations Funding Circle made before introducing this.
Funding Circle has explained that its considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment would have on both the buyer and 
seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its apparent from both what Mr B has complained about
and Funding Circles own admissions that sales queues on the secondary market were
increasing and it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts
in this way. And the introduction of the transfer payment, in addition to the new selling tool, is
clearly intended to combat these queues and to reduce the time investors such as Mr B must
wait in order to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mr Bs loan parts. I say this as Funding
Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate not only
to Mr B but to the investors who intend to purchase them from him. So it follows that if the
loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then Funding Circle
must ensure that the price offered reflects this.
Its also important to consider that Mr B doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained, the
transfer payment is only triggered if Mr B decides to exit from his investment before the
maturity date of the loans. So he is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts
until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
With all this in mind, Im satisfied that it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Bs loan
parts on the secondary market; it appropriately considered the impact this would have on Mr
B before implementing the transfer payment; it gave Mr B reasonable notice and he has an
option to keep his investments without incurring the transfer payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Funding Circle responded to accept the provisional decision, but Mr B didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are no further comments or new information for me to consider, I see no reason to
depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint
against Funding Circle Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman