DRN-3482303
The complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc placed a block on her bank account and wouldnt 
remove it while she was abroad.
 
What happened
While on holiday abroad, Miss F attempted to make a debit card transaction, but it was 
declined. She telephoned Santander the next day, but it told her that her account had been 
blocked and it wasnt able to remove the restriction because she hadnt sufficiently 
completed its security checks. Santander advised her to go into a branch when she returned 
to the UK.
Miss F complained to Santander. She says she was unable to access funds for the 
remainder of the holiday. 
Santander said it hadnt made any errors. Her card had flagged up on its systems as a 
suspected card compromise, so it had blocked her account to protect the funds. Miss F had 
called from a non-verified phone number and she didnt have her card with her. Her son in 
the UK had her phone and the SIM had been lost. Santander said it couldnt remove the 
block given these factors. It was able to remove the restrictions after Miss F returned to the 
UK as she was calling from her registered telephone number.
Miss F remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Santander had acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Miss F disagreed with our investigators view. She said she passed security and gave all 
necessary personal information. She said she also had all the necessary documents to 
prove it was her. She didnt agree that Santander made a sincere decision based on 
policies. So, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulations require Santander to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. Santander also has a duty to protect the money in Miss Fs 
account from potential fraud.
The terms and conditions relating to Miss Fs account say that Santander can withdraw or 
suspend your cards, chequebook, PIN or Personal Security Details to prevent suspected 
unauthorised or fraudulent use of your card, chequebook, account, remote access services 
or any related services which you can access using Online Banking, Telephone Banking or 
other remote access channels.
Santander has provided evidence to show that several transactions Miss F tried to make 
were denied and flagged as suspected fraud.
Santander says it isnt able to provide a recording of the telephone conversations that took 
place with Miss F the following day. However, its noted that Miss F was using a non-verified 
telephone, her card was being used but she did not have it in her possession, her son had 
her phone in the UK and her SIM had been lost. 
Miss F has told us that she told Santander that her SIM had been lost and her phone was 
with her son in the UK, who also had a replacement PIN. She told us that she was a day 
away from her passport and bank card as she was travelling. So, Im satisfied that 
Santanders notes reflect what was discussed.
Miss F says she answered all of Santanders security questions and feels this was enough to 
verify who she was. She says she asked Santander to call her back in two days time when 
she would be back in possession of her personal documents, but her request was refused. 
She says Santander wouldnt allow her son in the UK to send her the security codes from 
her phone, with the replacement SIM.
However, Santander has a duty to protect customers and itself from potential fraud and its 
not this services role to comment on the processes and systems it puts in place to do this. 
Im satisfied that Santander had legitimate concerns that Miss F might be a victim of fraud or 
a scam. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have continued to restrict access to the 
account.
When she returned to the UK, Miss F explained to Santander that she was unable to go into 
a branch as she was self-isolating due to Covid-19 restrictions. Santander removed the 
block on her account (after she provided certain documents) because she was calling from 
her registered telephone number. I think this was reasonable.
I appreciate Santanders security measures caused Miss F frustration and inconvenience. It 
was particularly worrying for her as she was away from home. Shes told us that she needed 
to ask relatives to send her money. However, Im satisfied that Santander has acted fairly 
and in the best interests of Miss F. If Miss F had been a victim of fraud and Santander hadnt 
taken steps to prevent money being removed from her account, the consequences could 
have been far worse for her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman