DRN-4443605
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society in 
April 2023 and about how his complaint in this respect was handled by it.
What happened
On 12 April 2023 Mr M phoned Nationwide to make an appointment at his local branch to 
discuss his account. However, this wasnt arranged for him because the call handler 
assumed, incorrectly, that Mr M wasnt vulnerable and she was only able to book branch 
appointments for vulnerable customers.
Unhappy with how Nationwide had treated him Mr M raised a complaint with it.
On 24 April 2023 Nationwide issued Mr M with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Nationwide apologised for how its call handler had treated Mr M and to say that it 
would be crediting his account, in due course, with £200 compensation.
In June 2023, and unhappy with Nationwides FRL, Mr M complained to our service.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our Investigators who came to the view that 
having paid Mr M £200 Nationwide need do nothing further. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has 
already been said. 
Nationwide accepts that it treated Mr M poorly. So all Im required to decide in this case is 
whether Nationwide, having paid Mr M £200, need do anything further.
First I would like to point out that my role is to consider what compensation, if any, a 
business should pay a consumer for poor service. My role isnt to fine or punish businesses, 
or to direct businesses to change their policies, procedures and working practices, that is the 
role of the regulator. 
I dont underestimate Mr Ms strength of feeling. But given that Nationwide has apologised 
for its poor service, how quickly it investigated Mr Ms complaint and having had regard to 
what Mr M has shared with our service about his personal circumstances Im satisfied that 
£200 represents a fair sum in compensation and a sum that is in keeping with our published 
guidance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I find that Nationwide, having paid Mr M £200, need do nothing 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Hamber
Ombudsman