DRN-2098006
The complaint
Mr C complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) and its agents caused delays 
when dealing with a claim under his motor insurance policy. He also claims there was 
damage caused to the engine following the repairs it carried out.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all of them 
again here. Instead Ill give a summary of whats happened and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. When I refer to CIS in this decision it also includes its agents.
On 19 August Mr C made a claim under his motor insurance policy for damage to the locks 
of his van, caused by an act of vandalism. CIS agreed the claim and arranged for the repairs 
to be carried out, this consisted of repairs to some panel damage and replacing the 
damaged locks.
There was a delay in beginning the repair work, due to CIS not having availability for the 
repairs to be carried out until 17 September. This date didnt suit Mr C as he was due to be 
out of the country and so the repairs were arranged for 30 September.
CIS failed to order the parts needed in time for the repair to take place, so the repair was not 
completed until 24 October. 
While Mr Cs van was in for the repairs, he mentioned to CIS some additional damage, to a 
side panel and windscreen wiper blades, he felt should be covered. CIS declined the claim 
for the additional damage as it didnt think it was related to the vandalism and was more 
likely to be wear and tear. But it did replace the windscreen wipers as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr C collected his van on 1 November. 
On 11 November Mr C complained to CIS about:
The delays caused by CIS when carrying out the repairs to his van
CIS failing to complete all the repairs  namely the damage to the left and passenger 
door 
He also told it that he noticed, when he was driving the van on 3 November, there was 
smoke coming from the exhaust and hed had to call a breakdown recovery service. He said 
they told him too much oil had been added to the engine  he also said the van was now in 
the garage and he has been told there is engine damage relating to the excess oil. Mr C 
believes the oil was added to the van while in for repairs with CIS and so it is responsible for 
the damage.
CIS appointed an independent engineer to inspect Mr Cs van and provide a report. The 
engineer said that he was unable to relate the overfilling of oil to the repairs CIS had carried 
out. Based on this CIS said it wasnt responsible for the overfilling.
It explained that the damage to the left-hand passenger door was wear and tear and not 
related to the vandalism. 
But it accepted there had been delays and paid £50 for the inconvenience that this had 
caused.
Mr C was unhappy with CIS response and brought his complaint to this service. At this time 
he also added that he thought CIS shouldve replaced all of the locks not just the damaged 
ones as now the key doesnt work in all locks. The instigator partially upheld Mr Cs 
complaint, in summary they said:
CIS only replaced the damaged locks but that the new locks were matched to the old 
keys so they should work. But CIS hadnt had its chance to look into this and so if 
there was a problem with this Mr C should contact CIS so it can have an opportunity 
to deal with it. 
CIS had acted fairly in declining to repair the passenger door based on the inspection 
of the damage.
The scope of the repairs only related to the locks and bodywork of the van and didnt 
extend to the engine, this along with the engineers opinion satisfied them that CIS 
was not responsible for the overfilling of oil in the van.
CIS should increase its offer of £50 for delays to a total of £150.
CIS agreed with the investigators findings, but Mr C did not. He said that his van was in 
good condition when he handed it over and now its not. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. Having done so, I have to tell Mr C 
that I think the investigator has reached the correct outcome here and for broadly the same 
reasons, Ill explain.
Damage to the left-hand passenger door and locks
Once a claim for repair has been agreed its the insurers job, in this case CIS, to put the van 
back to the state it was in immediately prior to the incident, not its original state. So, it only 
has to repair or replace the parts or areas that have been damaged because of the incident.
Mr C reported vandalism to his van and said that the locks on the drivers side door and back 
door had been damaged as had some paint work to those same areas. On inspection CIS 
wasnt sure the damage to the locks was related to vandalism and thought it may be down to 
wear and tear, but it decided to give the benefit of the doubt and authorise the repairs. 
Mr C wanted all of the locks replaced, but as I explained above, CIS duty here was only to 
replace those that had been damaged, which it has done. Having said that I would expect Mr 
C to only need one key to operate all the locks on his van. CIS has said that this should be 
the case too and if it isnt Mr C should contact it so it can arrange for this to be rectified. But I think Mr C has already let us know thats the case so CIS should now contact him to work 
this issue out, and if it is the case that the key doesnt work in all locks then it should rectify 
this.
It was after this that Mr C raised the damage to the left-hand passenger door and the 
windscreen wipers. CIS inspected the van again, it said it wouldnt cover those repairs as 
they werent related to the vandalism. It said the damage to the door was more consistent 
with something being opened against it as it was a vertical scratch, the vandalism damage 
was round marks. It also said the windscreen wiper damage was wear and tear. CIS has 
provided engineers comments and pictures to support this.
The garage decided to replace the windscreen wipers as a gesture of goodwill and so I 
havent considered this point further. But based on the evidence Ive seen for the damage to 
the left-hand passenger door, Im satisfied that CIS fairly declined to cover it as it wasnt 
related to the act of vandalism.
Engine damage
The independent engineer considered the repairs carried out by CIS, spoke to Mr C and the 
garage where the van was recovered to and inspected the van. Following this he concluded:
I am unable to relate the overfilling of oil to the claim under notice or relate to repairs 
undertaken
The repair work carried out by CIS was limited to the bodywork and locks on the van and 
didnt extend to the engine. I have looked at the repair reports and costs and there is no 
mention of, or charge for any engine oil being added.
Given all of this, on balance I think its unlikely CIS overfilled the engine with oil, and so I 
dont think its responsible for the damage to the engine of Mr Cs van. As such I will not be 
asking it to do anything different here to put things right for Mr C.
Delays
There is no dispute from CIS that the delays on its part were unnecessary and caused Mr C 
to be without the use of his van for much longer than he shouldve been. CIS has already 
agreed with the investigators recommendation of increasing its offer for the inconvenience 
this caused from £50 to £150 and I think thats fair.
I have not considered any loss of use payment for this time as I recognise that it did offer Mr 
C a courtesy car, but he chose not to have one. 
Putting things right
CIS should now make contact with Mr C to discuss the issue with the key not working for all 
of the locks, and it should rectify this if after investigation it finds there is a problem.
If it hasnt already done so CIS should pay Mr C £150 for the delays it was responsible for 
during the claim. It can deduct any amount it has already paid to him in compensation from 
the £150.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with CIS can do for him.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint about CIS 
General Insurance Limited. 
I now require CIS to:
Contact Mr C to discuss the issue of the keys not working with the locks 
Pay Mr C £150  It is entitled to deduct any money already paid to Mr C in 
compensation from this amount.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman