DRN-2304535
The complaint
Mr T complains about changes Santander UK Plc has made to its online banking. He 
believes they have made his account less secure.
What happened
Mr T complained to Santander after it made some changes to the information required when 
logging on to an account online. Mr T was worried that his money was less secure as a 
result. 
Santander said it had simplified some of the screens to make the process more customer 
friendly. But security checks were completed in the background to keep Mr T and his money 
safe. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld.   
Mr T hadnt suffered any losses as a result of Santanders change. He told Mr T we can only 
consider events that had happened rather than potential losses. It isnt the role of our service 
to recommend changes to banking security procedures.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt believe Santanders claim about there 
being no reduction in security was accurate because there had been a removal of a step. His 
complaint was about the log in security which had been reduced from three steps to two. 
Santander had referred to the background systems which had never been part of his 
complaint.
As Mr T disagreed with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive considered all of his comments even if I havent referred to 
each of them individually.
The relevant regulations require Santander to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. It also has a duty to protect the money in Mr Ts account 
from potential fraud.
Mr T feels strongly that Santander shouldnt have reduced the steps for logging into his 
account, regardless of what other changes it made to the security of its system. I 
acknowledge that reducing steps from three to two means that fewer combinations of 
numbers would need to be attempted by a potential fraudster before accessing the account. 
But I dont think this means the account isnt secure. The measures Santander puts in place 
to protect its customers money are a commercial decision and arent something this service 
has the power to change.
I appreciate Mr T is worried that his money is no longer secure. He hasnt accepted 
Santanders reassurance that his money is safe. He believes that making the system more 
user friendly implies a reduction in security. But I think Santanders explanation about what 
its doing to protect his money is reasonable. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr Ts 
account has been compromised as a result of the changes Santander has made.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman