DRN-2373776
The complaint
Ms B complained that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) mis-sold her a 
Business Critical Illness policy. 
What happened
Ms B ran a limited company. In September 2017 she approached SJP and arranged with it 
to take out two key person protection policies with a third-party insurer, who I will refer to as 
Company A. The policies were a Business Critical Illness with Term Assurance policy, with a 
sum assured of £100,000 and a Relevant Life Insurance policy, with a sum assured of 
£400,000. Both policies provided level term cover for a period of 25 years and the limited 
company was the owner of both policies. 
In 2019, Ms B decided to wind up the limited company and she contacted SJP on 16 
December 2019 to let it know she needed to change the bank details for payments, as she 
would shortly be closing the business bank account. She said she intended to pay the 
premiums from her personal bank account. 
At around this time, SJP informed Ms B that the Business Critical Illness policy couldnt be 
converted to a personal policy and would become void as soon as the limited company was 
wound up. It suggested Ms B talk to it about taking out a personal policy. SJP said the 
Relevant Life policy could be transferred to a personal plan and it outlined the steps Ms B 
would need to take, including what documentation would need to be completed, to amend 
that policy. SJP also advised Ms B not to close her business bank account at that point, 
because if the life insurance monthly payments were not kept up, the cover would cease 
automatically. And it said an identical replacement critical illness policy would now be more 
expensive. 
The last premiums on both policies were paid on 5 December 2019 and the limited company 
was dissolved on 24 December 2019. 
SJP contacted Ms B by email on 14 January 2020. It said Company A had advised it that 
both policies had been cancelled by Ms B and this meant she did not have any life 
assurance in place in her name. It said it could provide quotes for new cover. 
Ms B responded to SJP and said she hadnt cancelled the policies, but the bank details had 
changed from the business to her personal account and the last instalment wasnt taken. 
Ms B said she had the forms to move the existing policies to her personal bank account, but 
wanted to know if there was a lower cost alternative. 
Ms B phoned Company A on 20 January 2020 to update her direct debit details on the 
policies. She was advised this couldnt be done until her business policies had been 
transferred to personal plans. The documents she needed to complete in order to transfer 
the policies, including a deed of appointment document and direct debit mandate, were sent 
to her by email. 
SJP contacted Company A on 21 January 2020 and Company A said it had given Ms B the 
wrong information the previous day, as it told her the Business Critical Illness policy could be 
transferred to a personal plan, when this wasnt the case. 
SJP sent an email to Ms B on 23 January 2020 and said the Relevant Life policy was frozen 
by Company A as it was awaiting new bank details. SJP said if this policy was to restart, 
which needed to happen before July 2020, Company A would collect all missed payments 
together at once and cover could continue as it was. 
Company A cancelled both policies on 3 February 2020 for non-payment of premiums. 
Ms B was, unfortunately, diagnosed with cancer in March 2020. She submitted a claim to 
Company A under the Business Critical Illness policy, which was declined. 
Ms B complained to SJP in June 2020. She said when she met with the SJP advisor in 
September 2017, she made it clear that it was essential any insurance policy her business 
took out could be converted into a personal policy. She had always hoped to close her 
business to focus on other work and wanted both policies to continue.  
SJP responded and said both policies were taken out to protect Ms Bs business. SJP said 
the suitability letter issued at the time confirmed Ms B was provided with the key features 
and illustrations for the policies. And it couldnt see that Ms B was considering closing her 
company prior to retirement age, which was when the policies were supposed to cover her 
until. SJP also said there was nothing in the paperwork to suggest it was a requirement to 
have cover which could be converted to personally owned. 
SJP said Company A confirmed that the documentation provided to Ms B at the outset said:  
We need to be told if the person covered, as a key person or in connection with a business 
loan, leaves the business as we will cancel the cover from that point. It said this meant the 
Business Critical Illness plan could not be converted to a personally owned plan and it 
ceased on the dissolution of Ms Bs company, which was the end of December 2019. 
SJP also said it was satisfied the member of staff Ms B discussed this with in December 
2019, made it clear what could be done with both policies, in light of her company being 
closed. It said quotations for a personally own critical illness policy were sent to Ms B on 
23 January 2020, but no response was received. 
Ms B was unhappy with SJPs response and so complained to this service. She said her 
original advisor at SJP, as well as her more recent advisor, both told her the Business 
Critical Illness policy could be converted into her sole name. She said she trusted this was 
the case in 2017 and wasnt asked by the original advisor to read through the terms and 
conditions before taking out the policy. Ms B also thought SJP must have been given the 
wrong information about the policy in 2017 which impacted its recommendation. Ms B said if 
shed known she couldnt transfer the policy, then she would have taken steps to take out 
another policy before closing the business, or wouldnt have closed the business, to ensure 
the cover remained in place. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. He said that he cant fairly say that the 
advice given by SJP in 2017 was unsuitable. 
Ms B responded and said she was told by SJP in 2017 that it would be more tax efficient to 
take the policies out in the name of the limited company. She also thought the letter sent to 
her on 27 October 2017 should have stated that the insurance would stop when she closed 
the limited company. Ms B said that if it was the case that it had been her plan to keep the 
limited company going until she retired, which she said it was not, then the paperwork should have included this. Ms B said she became very ill in December 2019 and had greatly 
reduced capacity when she came out of hospital. And this was why she was unable to take 
out a new policy in her own name. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, 
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether SJP acted in line with Ms Bs instructions when it sold her the Business 
Critical Illness policy in 2017, as this was the policy that she was not able to transfer into 
her own name after she wound up her business in 2019.  
I also want to make it clear that this decision deals only with the complaint against SJP. 
Ms B has also made a complaint against Company A, and this has been dealt with 
separately. 
I can see from the emails sent between Ms B and SJP at the end of 2019 that it was 
certainly the case Ms B wanted to continue with both policies after the limited company was 
wound up. And I think its fair to say she didnt foresee any problems with doing this. But, in 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be sure that Ms B made it clear to SJP at the 
time she took out the policies that she wanted to be able to continue with them as and when 
she closed down her business.  
When a broker provides advice to a consumer, its usual for the broker to complete a number 
of documents to show theyve looked at the consumers wants, needs and objectives. 
And because I wasnt at the meeting in 2017 and so I have no way of knowing exactly what 
was said, Ive had to rely on these documents. 
In this case I can see that a suitability letter was sent to Ms M on 27 October 2017 that set 
out her circumstances, needs and objectives. These were listed as: 
You wish to provide protection in the event of death and or diagnosis of a critical illness for
you, on a Keyman basis. Your key protection objectives are:
To provide a capital sum of £100,000 payable in the event of your death or diagnosis 
of a specified critical illness, to provide Business Protection, as you feel that this will 
be the loss to the business and cost to cover yourself, if you were unable to work for 
a long period of time.
You want to provide this cover for a term of 25 years to meet this need because this
will take you to your intended retirement age.
The letter also set out the advisors recommendation, which was: 
I recommended [a Company A] Life Business Protection Level Life and Critical Illness 
Cover policy. This is for Key Person Protection, on a single life basis, with a sum assured of 
£100,000, payable in the event of your death or diagnosis of a Critical Illness on a level basis 
for a term of 25 years. The sum assured is appropriate because you want to insure yourself 
for a relevant sum to cover any loss that the Company will incur to cover you until you are fit 
enough to work. The term is appropriate as this takes you to your intended retirement age.
The reason for the recommendation was given as: You are looking to provide the company with protection against the death or diagnosis of a 
critical illness, of the Key Person within the business going forward. You feel that the sum 
assured of £100,000 is appropriate as this is the maximum loss that the Company could 
suffer if you were off sick and the Company needed to replace you. The cover will be in 
place until your anticipated retirement age.
The documentation that Ive seen, dating from 2017, places the emphasis on Ms B taking 
out the policies for the benefit of the business. And its not in dispute that Ms B knew they 
were business policies. But I cant see that it mentions anywhere in the documentation that 
being able to transfer the business policies to personal policies somewhere down the line 
was an objective of Ms Bs.  
I can see that SJP sent the suitability letter to Ms B in 2017 and this outlined the discussion 
she and it had about her protection needs. It asked Ms B to read the letter, as well as the 
report that was attached. The letter pointed to the recommendation section of the report and 
said if anything recorded in this letter and the following report is incorrect please let me 
know as it may have influenced my recommendation.
What Im looking at here is whether theres anything to suggest that SJP provided Ms B with 
an unsuitable policy in 2017 and I cant say that there is. The documentation, which I have to 
rely on, doesnt suggest this was an objective at the time. This paperwork was then sent to 
Ms B to check and she didnt indicate that anything was wrong with the policy that was being 
set up for her.  
Although not provided by SJP, I think its worth adding that the Business Critical Illness 
policy documents provided by Company A clearly said that the policy couldnt be transferred 
and would end when the business was dissolved. I know that Ms B said she wasnt told to 
read these documents, but its enough that they were provided to her. The documents form 
the basis of the agreement between her and Company A, irrespective of whether she had 
the opportunity to read them. And I take the view its up to Ms B to ensure she reads and 
understands the document. 
Ms B also said she thinks SJP may have based its recommendation in 2017 on inaccurate 
information about the policy. But Ive seen no evidence which suggests this is the case. I 
think its clear SJP believes the policy provided to Ms B was the one that met her stated 
needs. So I wont be looking further into this complaint point. 
Ms B also said that she would have arranged other cover if shed known she couldnt 
transfer the policy. But I can see that SJP told Ms B in mid-December 2019 that the 
Business Critical Illness policy couldnt be transferred to her name. And so Im satisfied that 
Ms B could have made enquiries from then to see if it was possible to take out another 
policy. And I can see that SJP said it could provide her with quotes for new cover. I know 
that Ms B became ill at the end of December 2019 and had to be hospitalised. And she said 
she doesnt think it was reasonable to expect her to arrange a policy in her own name 
around that time. Its incredibly unfortunate that Ms B became ill and remained unwell for 
some time. But, as I said earlier, what Im doing here is looking at whether SJP did anything 
wrong in how it dealt with Ms Bs situation. And theres nothing SJP could have done about 
Ms B not feeling well enough to arrange a policy at this time. SJP can only act if it was asked 
to do so by Ms B. 
Ms B also complained that SJP told her she had until July 2020 to restart the Relevant Life 
policy. Ive seen the email Ms B is referring to and SJP did say: If this policy were to re-start, which needs to happen before July 2020, AIG would collect all 
missed payments together at once and cover can continue as it was.
SJP was right to say that Ms B did have until July 2020 to apply to restart the policy with 
Company A. But its the case that Ms B wasnt able to restart the policy because of the 
change in her health and not because she relied on the July 2020 deadline.  
I know that Ms B was also eager for the testimony of two individuals she knows in a 
professional capacity to be taken into account. Ms B said these show it was always her 
intention to close her business down, and so was always her intention to ensure any policies 
could be transferred to her own name. I want to assure Ms B Ive looked at whats been 
provided, but this only tells me about Ms Bs own intentions regarding the policies. It doesnt 
tell me anything about whether SJP was informed of her intentions, which is the key issue 
here. 
Although I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms B, I could only ask SJP to 
take further action if I thought it had made an error. And Im satisfied it hasnt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman