DRN-1866100
 
The complaint
Mr J complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc turned him down for a current account switching 
offer, although he met the criteria. He said HSBC was just advertising one thing and offering 
another, as a way of collecting data. He wanted HSBC to delete the data hed given it.
What happened
Mr J applied for an HSBC account that came with a £175 offer for switching. But then HSBC 
wrote to him offering only a basic account, that didnt include the incentive payment. He said 
there was no apparent explanation for that.
Mr J said HSBC was just advertising the better, advance account as a way of collecting data. 
He wanted HSBC to delete all the personal data hed given it when he applied. But it 
refused.
HSBC said it had checked Mr Js application, and it just didnt meet HSBCs criteria for the 
account. It passed his request for deletion of his data to a separate team. And it said it had 
arranged for the credit search it had done to be deleted from his file. HSBC then sent a 
second letter saying it wouldnt be deleting Mr Js data, as it needed it to respond to 
complaints or answer queries, and for legal reasons. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said hed looked at how 
much income Mr J had declared, and it wasnt quite enough to meet the criteria that HSBC 
had set out. He thought that would be why HSBC had turned Mr J down, and that meant it 
hadnt done anything wrong. 
Our investigator also said Mr J had agreed to HSBCs privacy criteria when he applied for 
the account, which makes clear that it will retain his personal data. He thought that was 
reasonable, particularly because HSBC wouldnt have been able to answer Mr Js complaint 
without that. 
Mr J responded that there wasnt a minimum income requirement, he was just required to 
pay £1,750 per month into the account, which he could do. He said if the offer was genuine, 
it shouldve been refused straight away online. He didnt accept that HSBC looked at it 
manually afterwards. 
Our investigator said that HSBC had shown us that the total income Mr J had entered was 
£22,000 which after tax would mean he couldnt deposit the required amount. And HSBC 
was entitled to take a few days to review the application, it didnt have to reject it online. 
Mr J said he could meet the deposit requirements, and stressed again that HSBC hadnt set 
income requirements for this account, although it did for others. He also said hed initially 
said his income was £22,000 but then amended that to £25,000. So he wanted to know why 
HSBC had given us the first number he input, not the corrected amount. 
Because Mr J didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me to resolve.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by saying that I havent seen anything that suggests to me that the 
advance account and the switching offer isnt a genuine offer by HSBC, or anything 
that makes me think this is just a data collection exercise. I do think that HSBC is 
entitled to review applications after they are made. 
Now Ill turn to Mr Js application. Ive checked the information that Mr J supplied to 
HSBC, and I can see he declared a gross personal income of £26,000. I dont think we 
can assume that this is all taxed before Mr J receives it. And I also note that, as Mr J 
has pointed out, HSBC doesnt have an income requirement for this account. It just 
says how much someone has to pay in per month. 
But I dont think that means that HSBC has to give Mr J the account he wanted, and 
pay the switching incentive. It doesnt have to open an advance account for everyone 
who meets its advertised requirements. HSBC is allowed to decide who it offers its 
advance account to, in the same way as Mr J is able to decide who he wants to bank 
with. And here, HSBC has said its not willing to offer the advance account to Mr J as 
he didnt meet the banks internal credit requirements. Those are a matter for any bank 
to determine, and not something we normally have the power to get involved in.
If HSBC decides not to offer this account to Mr J, then our service wont make it do so. 
HSBC said that it wouldnt delete Mr Js personal data, and set out its explanation for 
that. It has said that it has various legal obligations that require it to keep hold of this 
information. Our investigator thought that was reasonable. But our service isnt the 
expert on data protection issues. If Mr J remains concerned about this, and would like 
this specific point reviewed, then he could speak to the Information Commissioners 
Office.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman