DRN-4049206
The complaint
Mr T complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves (FOL) didnt 
respond to his request to cancel a loan and as a result when the loan was settled, Mr T had 
paid additional interest on the balance.
 
What happened
In order so both parties have it to hand, in this part of the decision I am going to outline the 
timeline of events. And although this is not an irresponsible lending complaint it does stem 
from a loan Mr T was granted for £200 on 12 August 2022. Mr T was due to pay four 
monthly repayments of £94. However, on the day the loan was advanced  12 August 2022, 
Mr T emailed FOL saying (verbatim):
I took out a short-term loan of £200 this evening, not realising it likely wouldn't be
with me until. probably Monday now, which doesn't really bode well for it being an
emergency loan. Plus I read some of the reviews about yourself and as a result, it
has helped me make the decision to exercise my rights to withdraw my agreement
within 14 days. as per section 13.1 of the agreement. Therefore please accept this
email as a desire to withdraw with immediate effect. The funds were never received.
Mr T didnt hear from FOL until 17 August 2022, when it explained: 
Good morning,
Thank you for contacting Fund Ourselves,
Kindly provide us with the following details in order to locate your account and assist 
you accordingly:
Mr T responded to FOLs email a few hours later, providing the information it had requested. 
On 23 August 2022 FOL responded and informed Mr T of the following:
We can confirm that we have noted your account with your withdrawal request.
We can confirm your balance as of Today is £217.60
However, please note that this amount changes daily according to your daily interest 
rate mentioned in the agreement.
Kindly provide us with the date on which you are willing to fully settle your loan (30 
days from today) so we can postpone your first payment accordingly, otherwise, 
normal collection activity will continue.
Please note you can view and settle your balance at any time by simply logging in to 
your online account.
Alternatively, you can give us the authority to collect the balance from the registered 
card on your account.
On the same day, Mr T responded  and part of his email said;
and its taken 11 days for you to respond? Please note I have already logged a 
complaint and put the FCA on notice for this terrible treatment from yourselves. I will 
be paying it off on 27th august.
Later on, on the same day as the above emails Mr T told FOL 
I am complaining due to the delays caused by yourselves in sorting my withdrawal
agreement. As stated within the contract, I had 14 days to advise my intention to
withdraw, I did so within 1 day. I got a reply asking for my details 1 day later, so I
provided them. Were now on day 11 and no further response. 3 emails and 8 phone 
calls today including to a complaints line and no answer.
FOL, then emailed Mr T acknowledging his emails and confirming that in line with his 
request it understood the loan would be repaid on 27 August 2022. It also explained that it 
was receiving a high number of calls and emails, and this is why it took longer to get back to 
Mr T. 
 Mr T then emails FOL on 23 August 2022 to raise his complaint where he explained the 
crux of his complaint. 
Thank you for your response, much quicker than I expected. I would like to make a 
query regarding the interest, the interest has continuously accrued whilst waiting for 
acknowledgment of my withdrawal request and for instruction as to how I go about 
making this payment to clear the balance, had this been resolved in a much more 
timely manner, the interest would have been minimal.
FOL responded, again on 23 August 2022 and in this email it outlined that the interest was 
charged correctly, in line with section 13 of the credit agreement. It also apologised as the 
customer service team were busy. Whereas the complaints team is a separate function  
which FOL seems to suggest is the reason why it was able to respond to Mr Ts emails so 
quickly. 
FOL has confirmed the loan was settled on 31 August 2022. 
Unhappy with the response Mr T had received from FOL, he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman where it was reviewed by an adjudicator. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold his complaint. She was satisfied it was reasonable of FOL to 
ask for further details from Mr T because his withdrawal email contained no account 
reference numbers and was sent from a different email address than is registered.  But she 
acknowledged, it had taken 11 days for FOL to get back to Mr T with the withdrawal amount. 
She also said that even after FOL had told Mr T about the repayment of the loan, he said he 
wasnt going to be paying the balance for another 4 days  on the 27 August 2022. So she 
couldnt fairly say that Mr T was likely to have paid the settlement amount earlier than he did 
given the loan wasnt actually settled for another 8 days  31 August 2022. 
Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Ive read what Mr T has sent in full and 
Ive summarised his points below:
Mr T contacted FOL through call and emails. No one answered his calls despite 
calling during office hours. 
Mr T has been penalised by having to pay extra interest due to the delays caused by 
FOL.
Mr T says the credit agreement is in breach of Section 71 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.  And taking the wording in this act, no interest ought to have been charged. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulation 
It may help, if I set out the parameters of what regulations I will be referring to. Ive done this 
because in response to the adjudicators assessment Mr T says the relevant section of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 is section 71. Which says;
(1)Notwithstanding the cancellation of a regulated consumer credit agreement, other 
than a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for restricted-use credit, the agreement 
shall continue in force so far as it relates to repayment of credit and payment of 
interest.
(2)If, following the cancellation of a regulated consumer credit agreement, the debtor 
repays the whole or a portion of the credit-
(a)before the expiry of one month following service of the notice of cancellation, or
(b)in the case of a credit repayable by instalments, before the date on which the first 
instalment is due, no interest shall be payable on the amount repaid.
Mr T says, as he cancelled the agreement then no interest should be charged, as per the 
relevant section Ive quoted above. However, the section Mr T has referenced, isnt 
applicable to his complaint, because Mr T wasnt trying to cancel the agreement instead he 
was trying to withdraw from a credit agreement. This is a subtle difference, but an important 
difference in determining whether FOL is entitled to charge interest during the withdrawal or 
not.
The cancellation of the agreement would only have been applicable if Mr T was trying to 
cancel a hire purchase agreement which had been used to purchase a car or other goods. 
This is further endorsed, by the wording that can be found in Section 69 of the same act. 
Cancellable agreements.
[F1(1) Subject to subsection (2)] a regulated agreement may be cancelled by the 
debtor or hirer in accordance
And Subsection 2  as above, says
(2) This section does not apply where section 66A applies.
And in Mr Ts complaint, Section 66A does apply because Mr T was loaned money under a 
regulated credit agreement. This is confirmed within subsection 1. 
(1)The debtor under a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, may withdraw from the agreement, without giving any reason, in 
accordance with this section.
I want to be clear that there is no dispute in this case that Mr T withdrew from the credit 
agreement, only that the delays in FOL responding to him led him to be charge additional 
interest. This is confirmed firstly within Section 66A (9)Where the debtor withdraws from an agreement under this section
(a)the debtor must repay to the creditor any credit provided and the interest accrued 
on it (at the rate provided for under the agreement), 
And, then secondly this is mirrored in the wording of section 13 of the credit agreement that 
Mr T agreed to when he took the loan. 
13.6 The Borrower must pay interest accrued from the day the credit was provided to 
the day it is repaid. Such interest will be calculated at the interest rate under this 
agreement. The amount of interest that will accrue per day is £1.6.
Its also worth saying here that Mr T was familiar with section 13 of the agreement because 
he mentions it to FOL in his withdrawal email. 
Section 66A allowed Mr T to provide notice to withdraw from the credit agreement as long as 
the required notice was provided within 14 days of the inception of the agreement. In this 
case, that notice was provided on the day the funds were advanced. Secondly, Mr T then 
had an additional 30 days in which to return any funds advanced plus any interest that was 
levied on the sum. 
Im therefore proceeding on the basis that Section 66A is the relevant part of the act to be 
relying on and also on the basis that FOL was entitled to charge interest on any balance that 
was advanced. But, what I am considering is whether Mr T lost out by what he says are the 
delays in FOL responding to him. 
Timeliness 
However, Mr T says and this is the crux of the matter, that due to the slow response of FOL 
he has been unfairly charged more interest than he otherwise, wouldve been had FOL 
acknowledged his request straightaway. 
Ive already set out, earlier on this decision a timeline of events. And I would agree with Mr T 
that FOL does appear to have been a slow in responding to him. Initially, it asked for details 
to locate the account, which I dont think was unreasonable, because without it  FOL 
wouldnt be able to tell Mr T how much he owed because this would be dependent on the 
amount advanced. 
It wasnt until 23 August 2022  some 11 days after Mr T had requested to withdraw he was 
finally provided with the information about how much he owed and how he could pay it. 
However, despite being provided with the information at this point in time, he didnt make the 
requested payment for another 8 days. 
Given the delay between when Mr T was told by FOL how to pay (and how much) and when 
he actually did settle the loan, I cant fairly conclude that had FOL responded earlier then it 
did that Mr T wouldve made the payment any earlier. After all, even on Mr Ts own 
timescales, he was having to wait 4 days after the response from FOL to make the payment. 
Therefore, the evidence supports the fact that the payment to repay the loan was likely to be 
made on or around 31 August 2021. So, I dont think that had FOL responded any sooner, 
Mr T wouldve repaid the loan sooner and therefore wouldve been charge a smaller sum of 
interest. 
So, while FOL may have not responded as quickly as Mr T wouldve liked or indeed as 
quickly as it ought to have done, I cant conclude that Mr T has been caused any financial 
loss as a result of that. Im also satisfied  for the reasons previously provided in the first part of the decision that 
FOL was entitled to charge daily interest on the sum  as per Section 66A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  which is confirmed in section 13. So, the fact daily interest was 
charged, isnt an something FOL has done wrong. 
Equally, the delays in responded to Mr T hasnt impacted his ability to withdraw from the 
credit agreement  because he did by paying the amount owed within 30 days. 
I know Mr T says that he wasnt sure how he could go about paying the balance, but the 
credit agreement  in section 13 provide Mr T with details as to how he couldve gone about 
repaying the loan - 13.7 The amounts the Borrower must pay under clauses 13.5 and 13.6 
can be paid online through their account or by phone by calling 0800 368 9553. And its clear 
from Mr Ts first email, he knew about section 13 because he mentioned it in his withdrawal 
email.
But I accept, that Mr T says calling FOL was difficult. Mr T has also said he made numerous 
calls to FOL to try and get this sorted. FOL was asked about this and it said the call log is no 
longer available. Neither has Mr T provided any evidence of the attempted calls he said were 
made. 
Overall, I do accept there were delays  especially because the right to withdraw is time 
sensitive. However, Mr T had withdrawn and for the reasons Ive explained above I dont 
think he was overcharged or incorrectly charged interest, as Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Mr T wouldve paid the outstanding balance sooner  had it been 
communicated to him. 
And while I can understand the frustration Mr T says he experienced as a result of not being 
able to reach FOL and for the delay in the response. However, as far as I can see no 
financial loss has resulted, and in my view, material distress wasnt caused, the apology in 
the final response letter from FOL is reasonable. 
Taking everything into account, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman