DRN-3222654
The complaint
Mr G complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr G acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr G was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £319. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £18,827.
Mr G says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check to assess Mr Gs credit 
worthiness and indebtedness and verifying Mr Gs income through his bank statements. It 
says that as bank statements were provided it also reviewed these to see if there were any 
concerning expenditure traits. It noted that Mr Gs statements showed two payday loans and 
a returned direct debit but says the amounts were minimal and so werent considered an 
indicator of financial difficulty.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr G didnt agree and said Moneybarn never discussed with him if he could afford the 
agreement and was never asked to confirm his salary. He said that adequate checks would 
have shown the agreement wasnt affordable.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr G about his ability to repay. I say this because it carried out a credit 
check and received copies of his recent bank statements which could have been used to 
confirm his income and expenses. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate 
checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about 
what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Moneybarn gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mr G. I say this because although Mr G has provided evidence to show that he 
was on an enhanced salary for six months of £2,350 and that this then reduced to £1,850, I 
have nothing to suggest that Moneybarn was aware of this. It asked for bank statements to 
verify Mr Gs income and this showed his income to be £2,350 and there was nothing to 
suggest this shouldnt have been relied on. Also looking at Mr Gs statements from the time, 
while I can see there were payments from and to family members I do not find I have enough 
to show that his committed expenditure at the time meant the agreement should have been 
considered unaffordable. For these reasons, I dont think Moneybarn acted unfairly when 
approving the finance application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman