DRN-2595665
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked and then closed his personal and
business bank accounts without good reason.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision of 21 January 2021, which forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision, I set out why I intended to uphold this complaint. 
I said:
Santander is entitled to undertake checks with credit reference and fraud detection
databases for both new and existing customers. But I consider it shouldnt have
automatically decided to close the account here (at least not without making some enquiries
first). I think it ought reasonably to have carried out further investigation to confirm that the
data it received was accurate/correct. I make this point because CIFASs own guidance
says,
How does the CIFAS database work?
Before providing services, goods or finance or when employing a new staff member, CIFAS
members can undertake checks against the database. If a CIFAS record is returned as a
result of these checks a member must not simply reject an application or close a facility and
they are required to carry out further investigation to confirm that the personal data provided
on the application is correct.
I think this guidance can be read across to the closure of an existing facility. But Santander
didnt ask Mr A about the circumstances that led to the database marker and by not doing so
I dont think it treated him fairly. Without discussing this with Mr A, Santander didnt give him
the opportunity to question the accuracy of the data before it made its decision. And
Santander hasnt said that it had any other concerns about the way Mr A operated his
account other than the CIFAS marker. Mr A has provided information from CIFAS to show
that the entries against him have subsequently been removed. I have asked the investigator
to share this with Santander separately.
I think if Santander had engaged with Mr A here, its possible it might not have made the
decision that it did, particularly given the fact that the entries have been removed. Overall, I
think the situation could have been handled rather better than it was. And I think Mr A was
caused considerable upset as a result.
Mr A says that he was treated poorly by the branch staff when he called in with his
documents. He was denied access to his money and had to return several times to prove
that he was entitled to the money in his account. I think once Santander found the entries, it
was entitled to place a block on the account whilst it investigated. I dont think this in itself
was an unreasonable step for it to take. It would have been a temporary measure until things
were sorted out.
I have looked at Mr As bank statement and see that he withdrew £2,000 in cash the first
time he visited the branch, which left just over £100 in his account. On 13 July 2019 Mr A
received a credit of just under £1,900 into his account. Santander asked him to provide proof
of entitlement to this money before it allowed him to withdraw it. Mr A provided this on 19
July, which Santander reviewed and accepted. Mr A withdrew the full balance in cash on 23
July.
I appreciate that Mr A found it frustrating and inconvenient to provide Santander with
evidence of entitlement, but I find Santander had told him that it would only allow him to
withdraw money if he provided this information. Whilst this caused him a level of
inconvenience, I find this was limited because he was able to have access to his money.
I think Mr A has been treated unfairly by Santander to the extent set out above. But I havent
seen anything directly to suggest that this was a result of his background. Im satisfied what
happened was purely linked to the data that Santander found and not anything else.
In conclusion, I think it was reasonable for Santander to place a block on the accounts whilst
it investigated but I think it acted unfairly by not asking Mr A about the circumstances
surrounding the marker as part of its investigation.
I dont think Mr A has suffered any financial loss by Santanders actions. But I do consider
that he has been caused distress and upset. Ive thought about the impact this has had on
Mr A and that he had other bank accounts which he could continue to use, which helped limit
the amount of inconvenience he was caused. I think £400 compensation is appropriate for
the distress caused. I make no direction in terms of reinstating the accounts given Mr A has
other facilities. So Im not going to deem it an appropriate way to resolve the complaint here.
I invited both parties to make any further comment before I reached a final decision. 
Santander responded to say it didnt accept my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
- It didnt accept that it hadnt treated Mr A unfairly. 
- It was entitled to close the account with less than the 60 days contractual notice 
(here 30 days notice) where the customer acted in a way that gave rise to a 
reasonable suspicion of fraud. This is laid down in the terms and conditions of the 
account. It believed the CIFAS loading was sufficient evidence to give rise to a 
suspicion of fraud. 
- It had told Mr A that he could appeal its decision to close the account if he could 
get the CIFAS loading removed. However, he hadnt appealed. 
- It noted the information Mr A had provided confirming the loading had been 
removed was dated October 2020. However, hed been informed of the banks 
requirements in July 2019. In the circumstances, no appeal had been raised. 
Mr A also responded. In summary, he said:
- He felt the accounts should be re-instated. He hadnt been able to open another 
account since. 
- Any award for compensation should reflect there were two accounts and not just 
one. 
- This experience had caused trauma which continued to affect him now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
Santander doesnt believe it has treated Mr A unfairly. It says it was open to reconsidering its 
decision if he was able to get the entry removed. I can see why it might think that but CIFAS 
guidance is quite clear. It says that a loading should prompt members to carry out further 
investigation to check the accuracy of the data rather than simply closing the account. I dont 
think saying he could appeal its decision met that condition. Theres no evidence it asked Mr 
A any questions about the loading or the circumstances in which it might have been 
recorded.  
Ive considered what Santander has said about the loading having been removed and when 
the letter from CIFAS is dated. But in my view, this doesnt change the fact that it didnt make 
any further enquiries or ask questions. Mr A only referred his complaint once Santander had 
made its decision to close the account - he didnt think hed been treated fairly. 
Ordinarily a bank can close an account by giving 60 days (or two months notice). And it 
doesnt have to give a reason why. However, if it wants to give less than the standard 
contractual notice (in this case it was 30 days) it can only do so in certain circumstances.  
Santander has highlighted the term below and says its view is that the CIFAS loading was 
sufficient evidence to give rise to a suspicion of fraud:
act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities.
Ive given this careful thought, but I dont agree that the term applies here. Firstly, Mr A was 
not acting at all. Secondly, looking at the purpose of what a CIFAS warning is I dont think it 
can be used as a reasonable suspicion of fraud. As I have already made clear, the guidance 
is clear that if there is a loading, its incumbent on the member to look further into it and not 
automatically close a facility. And Santander hasnt said there were any other concerns 
specifically relating to fraud. 
Considering all of this, I dont think Santander gave Mr A the appropriate notice before 
closing his account. Ive thought about the impact this had on him together with the impact I 
mentioned in my provisional decision. But I dont think this warrants a higher award. I say 
this because Mr A was still able to withdraw funds at a branch and he had other accounts 
elsewhere. 
I understand Mr A feels the compensation should reflect that there were two accounts and 
not one. But our awards arent based on each event or an individual mistake, rather we look 
at the overall impact this has had. And thats what I have considered here. I dont doubt this 
was very upsetting situation for Mr A. But Im satisfied £400 reflects the trouble and upset 
caused. 
 
I understand Mr A would like his accounts reinstated. But I dont think thats appropriate. Mr 
A held other accounts and theres nothing to suggest that Santander has recorded 
something against him which might be preventing him from getting new facilities elsewhere. 
Indeed, hes provided information from CIFAS that shows that there arent any adverse 
records held against him now. So, it follows that Im not going to ask Santander to do more 
than pay the compensation I have outlined. 
   
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr A £400 
for the upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman