DRN-2743048
The complaint
Mrs H complained that she was mis-sold a PPI policy with a car loan she took out, in 1989. 
A company called St Andrews Insurance PLC is now responsible for the PPI sale, so to 
keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to St Andrews in this decision.
What happened
Mrs H applied for a car loan of £8,680 and was sold a single premium PPI policy at the same 
time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front in one single payment. 
It cost £1,093.68 and this amount was also lent to Mrs H by St Andrews. Both the loan and 
PPI part of the loan ran over a period of 36 months (3 years) and both attracted interest. The 
policy protected her in the event of losing her job or being too ill to work.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with 
this, and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Id like to place on record that Ive got no doubts that Mrs H genuinely feels now that this 
policy was mis-sold to her. Ive also looked at everything shes told us with great care. 
However, her recollections do seem a little inconsistent to me, possibly caused by the time 
that has since passed  the sale took place some 32 years ago. 
Mrs H says she was made to feel she had no choice and was put under the impression that 
the PPI was something she needed to take out with the car loan. But she also says she 
didnt know what the PPI was. I note, however, that Mrs M did successfully make a claim on 
the policy in 1991; so I think she must have known that the policy existed and what it was 
designed to protect. 
Nevertheless, Ive gone back to the beginning and looked very carefully at the credit 
agreement she signed. I accept this could have been more clearly worded, but there was a 
section about having PPI (called Creditcare in this instance) and there was a box to tick if it 
was something she wanted to have. There was a brief description of the insurance - again 
this could have been better  but also a link across the document to show how much this 
insurance was costing. We now know the cost was fairly large, so I think Mrs H would have 
easily been able to see firstly that PPI had been chosen, and what it was costing. She went 
ahead and signed the agreement.
Because of the way the form was laid out I think Mrs H could see the she had a choice and 
by not ticking the Creditcare box, the PPI wouldnt have been added to her loan. In this 
case, I think its clear enough she agreed to the policy and knew she didnt have to. I think 
the PPI was something she wanted to have at the time.
It looks to me as if this PPI was recommended to Mrs H as part of what we call an advised 
sale. This means the business had a duty to make sure the PPI was something that suited 
Mrs H particular circumstances. She says she didnt need the cover.
However, I think Mrs H was eligible for the PPI and I dont think theres any evidence to say 
shed have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policies. She told us she had some sickness protection already through her job, although the 
amount quoted  over 12 months of full sick pay  significantly exceeds what I know about 
the level of workplace sickness protection most people tend to enjoy. The company 
representing Mrs H sent me no evidence to support what, in my view, seems a very 
generous level of sick pay, found very infrequently outside only a few professions. 
Notwithstanding that issue, Mrs H is implying she didnt need any PPI. 
I can fully understand why shes told us about her sick pay and I certainly agree she would 
have had some, but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean she didnt have a use for the 
policy. It could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of her being unable to work 
through illness or losing her job completely and this would have been in addition to any other 
means she already had in place. The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for the same 
term lengths.
As Ive said, Mrs H made a successful claim on the policy in 1991. This doesnt directly 
affect the point of sale circumstances, but it does, in my view, tend to support that she had 
an awareness of the policy and that she had agreed to take it out to cover the types of 
eventuality she eventually claimed for.
Its obviously possible that St Andrews could have done things differently or provided more 
information during the sale. But I dont think this changes anything in her case. The cost of 
the PPI was set out on the form, both with and without, interest  this was separate to the 
loan costs. It also showed Mrs H the total sum she would end up paying each month for the 
loan and PPI. I also think shed have been given something about the policy rules. So I think 
she had enough information on which to make an informed decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, but I think she had enough information to see and understand 
that she had agreed to the PPI. I dont therefore think it was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. And I dont direct St 
Andrews Insurance PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman