DRN-4392975
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way in which HSBC UK Bank Plc managed his account following 
an agreed payment break.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr B filled in an income and expenditure form and spoke to an HSBC agent on 
the phone. Mr B confirmed his income and expenditure over the phone and told the agent he 
needed help with his loan repayments until his car payments ended in three months. The call 
was disconnected before an arrangement could be made.
HSBC called Mr B in August 2022 because he had missed a loan payment. During the call, 
the agent agreed a payment break. The agent explained that the arrangement could impact 
Mr Bs credit file and advised him that it would be necessary to discuss his account after the 
arrangement had finished. Mr B said he understood the terms of the payment arrangement.
The payment arrangement ended in November. HSBC wrote to Mr B asking him to contact 
them to discuss repaying the missed payments and to review his circumstances.
Mr B says that HSBC had agreed when he spoke to them in September that he could make 
manual payments after the payment arrangement ended. He says he made a manual 
payment of £431 on 25 November 2022, but HSBC took a direct debit in December without 
his permission, and he couldnt afford both payments coming out each month, so he stopped 
making manual payments.
Mr Bs direct debit payment was returned in December 2022 due to insufficient funds. HSBC 
sent a letter to Mr B advising him that the loan was in arrears. HSBC didnt hear from Mr B 
and on 5 January 2023 a Default Notice was issued. Mr B didnt pay the loan balance and on 
20 February 2023 HSBC closed the account and transferred the debt to collections and 
registered a default.
Mr B complained to HSBC. He said he didnt think HSBC had given him enough help with his 
loan payments and he wanted the adverse information removed from his credit file.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said its collections process continued because no 
further plan was put in place to address the arrears following the payment break.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that when the payment break was 
agreed, the agent asked Mr B if he would be able to clear the four months of arrears and Mr 
B confirmed that he would. The investigator said that although Mr B made a payment in 
November, this wasnt enough to clear the arrears. The investigator said that the information 
provided to Mr B about what he needed to do once the payment break ended was clear and 
that HSBC hadnt made an error by defaulting the account.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he had agreed to repay the arrears, but no direct debit had been 
set up, so he made a manual payment. Mr B said that HSBC then set up a direct debit 
without his permission and took a payment which he couldnt afford. Mr B says he asked 
HSBC to change the date of the direct to 28th of each month but instead of doing this they 
cancelled it and issued a default notice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B was already two months in arrears by the time the payment break was 
agreed. During the call in which the payment break was agreed, the HSBC agent asked Mr 
B to confirm that he would be able to clear four months of arrears once the payment break 
ended. Mr B confirmed that he would be able to make up the payments.
After agreeing the payment break on the telephone, HSBC wrote to Mr B confirming that the 
payment break had been set up. Ive reviewed this letter. It states that the payment break 
doesnt change the terms of the loan agreement and that because no payments will be made 
to cover the contractual monthly amount during the payment break, the arrears balance will 
increase. The letter also says that when the payment break ends its up to Mr B to contact 
HSBC to discuss his payment options to bring the account up to date.
I can see that HSBC sent another letter to Mr B shortly before the payment break ended. 
This letter stated that when the break ended, there was an outstanding balance to be repaid. 
The letter asked Mr B to contact them to review his financial situation.
I cant see that Mr B contacted HSBC when the payment break ended. However, I can see 
that he made a manual payment towards the loan on 25 November 2022. This payment 
wasnt enough to clear the four months of arrears which had accrued on the account. The 
system notes show that HSBC made attempts to contact Mr B by telephone at this time and 
sent him a letter advising him of the arrears on the account and the overdue amount he 
needed to pay.
I cant see that Mr B responded to the telephone calls or the letter. 
I appreciate that Mr B has said that he intended to repay the arrears. However, Mr B hasnt 
provided this service with an explanation as to why he didnt contact HSBC once the 
payment break had ended to discuss his options. Mr B has said that he didnt receive the 
banks letters. Ive reviewed these, and they are correctly addressed to Mr B so I think its 
more likely than not that they were received. Even if the letters werent received, this doesnt 
explain why Mr B didnt respond to the banks telephone calls. And even if Mr B didnt receive 
the letter and telephone messages, the letter sent following the agreement of the payment 
break makes it clear that Mr B needed to contact the bank once the payment break ended. 
Mr B hasnt provided a plausible explanation as to why he didnt contact the bank to discuss 
how he was going to repay the four months of arrears. In the circumstances, I dont think 
HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably by following its collections process. 
Mr B didnt bring his account up to date in response to the default notice. Because of this, 
Im unable to say that HSBC made an error when it reported the default to the credit 
reference agencies.  Lenders are under an obligation to report a factual representation of a 
customers payment history in order that other potential lenders understand the customers 
financial situation and ability to repay credit. For this reason, Im unable to ask HSBC to 
remove the default notice.For the reasons Ive explained above, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman