DRN-3828796
The complaint
Mr W complains about how QIC Europe Limited handled and settled a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy for storm damage.
Mr W is represented by his wife in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
What happened
Mr W purchased a household insurance policy, which is provided by QIC on 30 March 2021. 
This policy covers the period from 23 April 2021 to 22 April 2022.
On 18 February 2022, Mr W said his rear garden wall suffered significant damage when it 
was blown over by a storm. He said the wall is a single continuous structure which is shared 
with at least four other properties. He said sections of the wall in those properties also 
suffered similar damage as a result of adverse weather conditions.
Mr W contacted QIC to report a claim on becoming aware of the damage his rear garden 
wall had sustained. QIC recorded the claim and appointed a surveyor to attend Mr Ws 
property and provide an opinion on the cause of damage. Ill refer to this agent as A.
A visited Mr Ws property on 24 February 2022 to inspect the wall. After this visit A submitted 
images and a report to QIC in which it stated that it thought the wall had suffered age related 
wear and tear. It thought the adverse weather conditions had highlighted the pre-existing 
condition of the wall. QIC declined Mr Ws claim based on As opinion  it said the storm 
wasnt the dominant cause of the damage and wear and tear was excluded by his policy. 
Mr W wasnt happy with how QIC proposed to resolve his claim and, on 24 October 2022, 
complained. He said his neighbours had made successful claims for the damage to their 
parts of the wall through their insurer. He also disputed As opinion on the cause of the 
damage stating that the condition of the wall was good as it had been well maintained over 
the years. He asked QIC to reconsider his claim and fund the reinstatement of the wall.
QIC investigated Mr Ws concerns but maintained its stance that the damage wasnt caused 
by a one-off storm event as was required by his policy. It therefore didnt uphold his 
complaint about the way it had settled his claim. 
Being dissatisfied with how QIC had dealt with his complaint Mr W referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended upholding this 
complaint.  They were satisfied thered been a storm at around the time of damage, noting 
this wasnt a disputed issue, and thought QIC hadnt acted fairly in declining the claim. They 
were persuaded the storm had been the main cause of the damage and recommended that 
QIC settle the claim in Mr Ws favour. 
Mr W agreed with our investigators view of his complaint, but QIC didnt and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr W and QIC that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr W and QIC for the 
level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the information 
provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr W or QIC have made it isnt 
because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues 
namely whether QIC acted reasonably in handling and determining this claim.
Our investigator recommended upholding this complaint because they werent persuaded
there was cogent evidence to support QICs repudiation decision. Ill explain why I think our 
investigator was correct in their view.
Here, theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Ws rear garden wall. However, theres 
disagreement between him, QIC and its appointed agent (A) about the cause of the damage 
and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mr Ws policy with QIC provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a claim to 
be successful, the onus rests on Mr W to show that the damage hes claiming for was 
caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Ws complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to 
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Ws policy defines the word storm. Ive 
noted that definition but, here, I dont need to consider whether the weather recorded at 
around the time the damage occurred meets the policy definition because, as our 
investigator correctly identified, QIC doesnt dispute there were storm conditions in Mr Ws 
locality on 18 February 2022. So, I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with
damage a storm typically causes. Like our investigator, Im satisfied that damage to a
rear garden wall is something that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to 
answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the issue of whether I think the storm was the main cause of the damage in
this instance.As I set out in the background to this complaint, QIC instructed A to visit Mr Ws property to 
assist it in determining the cause of damage. It isnt unreasonable for QIC to use As 
assistance in assessing a claim for damage following a storm. But Id also expect QIC to 
consider other opinions on the cause of damage that may be available with an open mind.
Ive carefully considered As report. I can see it inspected the wall within around a week of 
the damage occurring and thought the wall had fallen due to it reaching the end of its 
lifespan. It thought this had happened due to erosion at its base level and said the wall was 
leaning toward the rear at varying degrees along its length. It said this had all served to 
compromise the structural stability of the wall. And it said it had noted evidence of soil in the 
centre void inside the wall, indicating the two constructed leaves of the wall had been 
separating for some time.
Based on As report, I dont think QIC acted unfairly in initially declining to settle Mr Ws 
claim. I say this because I understand there was no independent evidence, such as a report 
from another surveyor, for it to consider at this stage of the claim. It only had As opinion.
QIC told our service that, after Mr W complained about its repudiation decision, it asked an 
in-house surveyor to review As report and the images it took to confirm the cause of 
damage. I think that was reasonable action for it to take in the circumstances. 
I can see that QICs in-house surveyor agreed with As opinion that the damage to the wall 
was due to its age and condition. However, it appears that, at this stage of the claim, Mr W 
had provided QIC with surveys that were undertaken on other parts of the same wall by 
companies, which Ill refer here to as F and S. These had been disclosed to him by 
neighbours, whod gone on to make successful storm damage claims with their insurers.
Mr W has provided an exchange of messages with QIC, which indicates it wasnt willing to 
consider the content of reports from F and S. It informed him that these reports had been 
completed after the wall had failed and that it was only prepared to assess his claim based 
on the opinion of A. Im not persuaded that this was fair or reasonable. 
Ive considered the content of the independent reports from F and S on the condition of the 
wall. These reports offer a different opinion on the cause of damage. Im satisfied that F and 
S have sufficient expertise to offer a view on the cause of damage and that each undertook 
an appropriate and adequate inspection of the wall during their visits. I can also see that 
their reports are much more detailed than As.
F inspected parts of the wall on 23 September 2022 and appears to specialise in wall 
construction and maintenance. In its report F stated there were no large shrubs or trees 
close to the wall that would have contributed to the collapse and it had no reason to believe 
that the wall had suffered from poor repairs or neglect.
F thought the footings were in good condition and hadnt been compromised by excavation 
and said the mortar was sound andin good condition. It also said the wall had been 
suitably maintained with well timed repairs. 
F concluded its report by stating the cause of the collapse is very likely to be the high winds 
experiencedwith the gusting wind rocking the wall until momentum built up and it 
fellwithout these unusually high winds the wall would have survived for many years.
S seems to specialise in historic masonry and indicates that it also inspected the wall in 
September 2022. It stated that biological growth and wet conditions are not considered a 
likely contributing factor in the wall suffering damage. It said the bricks were in good 
condition and the mortar was both clean and well consolidated. There was no unsuitable re-pointing or in fact the need for repointing and the foundations werent disturbed by root 
networks, insects or large species. 
S observed a slight lean in foundations but stated the lean is considered insignificant and 
typical for a historic wall and wouldnt have justified structural reinforcement. And it didnt 
identify any work as needing to be undertaken prior to the wall collapsing, which may have 
prevented the damage occurring.
S concluded its report by stating that the collapse of the wall could be attributed to the 
strength of the wind alone.
Both F and S are consistent in their assessment of the condition of the wall. They both 
believe the storm was the dominant cause of the damage and have provided a clear 
rationale as to their reasons. Im persuaded that their opinion regarding the condition of the 
mortar, the wall footings and lean is reliable and credible. Their opinion on these matters 
discredits As opinion that these issues have caused the wall to fail.
The reports from F and S were completed following an assessment over 6 months after the 
wall collapsed. But, as they comment in detail on the condition of the wall and mortar, I dont 
think a delay in assessing the wall has caused any unreliability in the opinion offered here.
I think QIC ought to have attached weight to the reports from F and S and considered them 
carefully in reassessing Mr Ws claim for the reinstatement of his rear garden wall. Had it 
done so, its likely this would have led to QIC taking a more sympathetic view of Mr Ws 
claim  settling it in his favour. And this would have prevented him from having to refer his 
complaint to our service.
As Im persuaded that the damage, most likely, occurred due to the storm in mid February 
2022, Im satisfied that Mr W has shown that the damage hes claiming for was caused by 
one of the perils listed in his policy. It follows that Im upholding this complaint and direct QIC 
to settle Mr Ws claim to reinstate his rear garden wall. 
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, Im directing QIC to settle Mr Ws claim for the 
reinstatement of his rear garden wall.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Limited should resolve this 
complaint by settling Mr Ws claim for the reinstatement of his rear garden wall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman