DRN-3659255
The complaint
The complaint raised by the estate of Mr F is that he was given poor financial advice by 
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Woolwich, in July 1998 when it sold him two insurance 
policies. The first was a critical illness policy. The administrators of the estate said that this 
was mis-sold because the recommendations didnt take into account an existing endowment 
policy, which provided critical illness cover, and the benefits his employer provided, which 
would have repaid the mortgage in the event of death or critical illness. They have 
commented that the critical illness policy was also unsuitable because it didnt pay out when 
Mr F was diagnosed with a critical illness. 
The second policy was a mortgage endowment policy. The administrators said this was 
mis-sold because it didnt take into account the existing mortgage endowment policy Mr F 
held from his previous mortgage. In addition, they said he didnt need the life or critical 
illness cover provided by the policy because of the benefits from the previous policy and 
those his employer provided. 
What happened
The administrators provided the recommendations page from a fact find completed on 
30 July 1998. This document detailed Woolwichs recommendations for Mr F as:
Woolwich Open Plan fixed mortgage of £37,000 over a term of 20 years. 
Woolwich Life Mortgage Endowment Plan Plus for £17,000 over 20 years to build up 
monies to repay part of mortgage, or on death or diagnosis with a critical illness. 
Premium £56.02.
Woolwich Life Critical Illness Plan for £20,000 over 20 years. Premium £34.67.
Homewise buildings and contents insurance for a rebuild cost of £45,000. Premium £20 
approximately, but would be confirmed.
Payment Protection Plan for £422 per month at a premium of £24.27.
A bank statement was provided showing that Mr F paid a policy premium by direct debit to 
Barclays Insurance Services in March 2006 for an amount of £40.73.
The administrators complained to Barclays about the policies sold to Mr F in 2019. Barclays 
appears to have confirmed that it held no records of a payment protection plan (PPI) for 
Mr F, but didnt comment about the other products on the recommendation form.
The complaint about all the policies recommended to Mr F was referred to this service. The 
complaint about the PPI policy was dealt with separately and doesnt form part of this 
complaint. We asked Barclays to provide its file in relation to the mortgage endowment and 
critical illness policies recommended.
Barclays confirmed that it had completed a search of its records for Woolwich Life and found 
no record of policies for Mr F. As such, it also contacted the life assurance company that is 
now responsible for Woolwich Life policies. Barclays provided Mr Fs name, date of birth, 
address and confirmed that any policies would have been issued by Woolwich Life. It was 
confirmed that the life assurance company had no record of any policies for Mr F. Copies of 
the life assurance companys emails were provided to us as evidence of these findings. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He pointed out that while policies had been recommended, there was no evidence 
that a critical illness policy had been taken out. Unless such evidence was provided, it 
wouldnt be able to find that Barclays had done anything wrong.
The administrators didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They highlighted that they 
had proven that Mr F was paying the premiums to the critical illness policy in 2006 and as 
such, this was enough to show the policy had been sold. They also said that Barclays not 
having documents didnt mean that the policy hadnt been sold, as previous ombudsman 
decisions had accepted recommendations and proof of payment of premiums as evidence of 
a policy existing. They didnt think the policy premium evidenced would have been for the 
home insurance policy, as it would have included that fact in the reference. In addition, the 
premium was around double that quoted for the home insurance, whereas, the premium 
quoted for the critical illness policy was close to the amount paid on the bank statement. 
In addition, the administrators provided a page from an illustration for a mortgage 
endowment plan for Mr F. The details of the policy matched those in the recommendations 
given to Mr F in 1998. They also provided a copy of the valuation for Mr Fs home. 
The investigator considered all that the administrators had said, but he didnt change his 
conclusions. He acknowledged that it had been evidenced that Mr F had a Barclays 
insurance policy in 2006, but he wasnt persuaded that this evidenced that the critical illness 
policy had been taken out. This was because the premiums didnt match, and Barclays had 
provided evidence that no policy had been taken out. The investigator also commented that, 
if the critical illness policy had existed, the complaint was likely to have been made too late 
under our rules, as Mr F would have known he had cause for complaint when his claim 
under the policy was rejected.
The administrators remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. They set out their 
reasons for this, including their understanding that the premium for a critical illness policy 
would increase each year as the insured got older, hence the premium in 2006 being higher 
than that quoted on the recommendation form.  They said the premium would not have been 
for a home insurance policy, as this was provided by Homewise and so that is the name that 
would have been on the bank statement, not Barclays Insurance Services. In addition, the 
premium paid was much higher than that quoted for the property insurance eight years 
earlier.
The administrators consider that, whether the premium they have evidenced was linked to 
the mortgage endowment policy or the critical illness policy, the applicable policy would have 
been mis-sold. They also repeated comments from their original complaint to Barclays, that 
the advice given was all insurance based, which appeared to show that Barclays wanted to 
sell insurance, rather than consider Mr Fs circumstances at the time.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Having read all of the comments from the administrators it is clear that they are unhappy 
with the recommendations made to Mr F for both the mortgage endowment policy and the 
critical illness policy. However, they have focused on the critical illness policy with this service as they believed they could evidence its existence due to the 2006 premium 
payment on Mr Fs bank statement. For completeness, I am going to consider whether the 
evidence indicates that one or all of the policies (including the property insurance policy) in 
question existed.
No record of either a mortgage endowment policy or a critical illness policy have been found 
by Barclays or the life assurance company that is now responsible for Woolwich Life policies. 
That is a significant indicator that the policies were either not applied for or if they were, they 
didnt go into force or were cancelled at an early stage. 
However, the administrators have rightly said that they have evidenced that in 2006 Mr F 
had some form of policy with Barclays as he was making a payment to Barclays Insurance 
Services by direct debit. They have said they dont believe that this could have been a home 
insurance policy, because they believe that the policy recommended was with a different 
provider. I dont think that was the case  Homewise was Woolwichs name for its home 
insurance product. So the insurance premium could have been linked to any of the three 
products recommended in 1998, or it could have been linked to none of them, and be 
associated with a policy Mr F took at a later date. 
As has been pointed out, the premium doesnt match any of those quoted in 1998 and given 
the endowment policy premium was for significantly more than the 2006 premium, it would 
seem unlikely that it could evidence the existence of the mortgage endowment policy. The 
home insurance policy premium is significantly lower than that paid in 2006, but given the 
premium quoted wasnt definitive, the final premium for that policy might have changed. In 
addition, home insurance premiums can alter significantly if any changes to the building or 
contents are made or in light of claims. So I cant rule it out that the 2006 premium was for 
the home insurance policy. 
As for the critical illness policy, the premium quoted for that is noticeably lower than that paid 
in 2006. I note that the administrators have suggested that this might be because the 
premium would have increased each year due to Mr F getting older. I can understand why 
they have suggested this, but that isnt the way such policies work. Firstly, most policies that 
were arranged for mortgage protection at that time would have had a fixed premium 
throughout the term that would have taken Mr Fs age throughout the term into account 
when it was originally set. Even those policies that had a reviewable premium, would usually 
only be reviewed at specific points in the term, the first of which was usually at the ten-year 
point. So changes to the policy premium following it being set up are highly unlikely to 
explain the discrepancy between the two figures. 
The administrators have said that prior to 1998 Mr F had a significant health issue, that 
involved transplant surgery. They have also said that it was known that this was not a 
long-term solution to the medical situation and Mr Fs health was likely to deteriorate 
significantly in the medium term. That would have represented a significant risk to Woolwich 
Life when it considered any application from Mr F. Indeed, given it was 1998, I think that it 
may well have turned Mr F down for cover, both critical illness and even possibly life cover. 
This would mean that neither of the policies could have gone into force. 
In the circumstances, while I accept that at some point Mr F held some sort of insurance 
policy with Woolwich or Barclays, as evidenced by the 2006 premium, I dont think the 
evidence supports that policy being either the mortgage endowment or critical illness policy 
recommended in 1998. 
As such, I cant find that a mis-sale took place in 1998 and redress is due to Mr Fs estate. However, even if I had found that the evidence supported Mr F having taken the 
recommended policies, I wouldnt have been upholding a mis-selling complaint based on the 
administrators reasoning.  I say this as it is very clear that Woolwich recommended an 
interest-only mortgage and associated products to go with it. The first product recommended 
was an endowment policy to act as the repayment vehicle for part of the mortgage. The 
administrators have highlighted that there was an existing endowment policy that had been 
arranged for Mr Fs previous mortgage and have suggested this wasnt taken into account 
when the recommendation was made. However, that doesnt appear to be the case. If the 
existing endowment hadnt been taken into account, I would have expected the new 
Woolwich endowment policy to be for an amount equal to the mortgage, but it wasnt. It was 
for only £17,000 and so it would appear likely that this was to top-up Mr Fs existing 
provision. That doesnt seem inappropriate in the circumstances. 
The endowment policy also has critical illness cover linked to it. Again, that would generally 
not have been an unsuitable recommendation, as that benefit would have provided funds to 
pay off that part of the mortgage in the event of diagnosis with one of a specified range of 
critical illnesses. 
While I note that the administrators have said that the existing endowment policy included 
critical illness benefit, they havent provided evidence of this. The recommendation made 
would bring that fact into question, as the critical illness policy recommended, was for the 
same amount as the existing endowment policy. This would indicate the standalone policy 
was to provide critical illness cover for the part of the mortgage that was covered by the 
existing policy because it didnt include that type of cover. Again, that generally wouldnt 
appear to have been an inappropriate recommendation.
I note that the concept that the critical illness recommendation was unsuitable because, if 
the policies existed, they didnt pay out for Mr Fs illness. As I have said above, critical illness 
policies are designed to pay out upon diagnosis of a specific range of illnesses, so if Mr Fs 
illness wasnt one of those covered, the policies wouldnt have paid out. That wouldnt 
automatically mean that the policies were mis-sold.
The administrators have also said the recommendation was unsuitable as Mr F had benefits 
from his employer that would have paid off the mortgage in the event of critical illness or 
dead. They have provided evidence that Mr F had life cover through his pension 
arrangements, but not that there was critical illness cover available too. That said, as 
employer benefits are not guaranteed, as they can be changed or removed by the employer, 
and will be lost if that employment ends, they are not generally considered suitable to protect 
a mortgage. 
So, generically, it doesnt appear that the recommendations would likely to have been found 
inappropriate, had the policies been taken out.
Overall, while I dont consider the evidence supports Mr F having taken out the policies 
recommended, even if he had, I think it unlikely that the policies would have been found to 
be mis-sold for the reasons presented by the administrators.
The administrators didnt accept my conclusions as they didnt think they were proportional 
or fair, given the evidence submitted. They set out why they thought the premium from 2006 
was likely to be linked to one of the policies recommended in 1998 and reiterated their belief 
that Mr Fs employer benefits would have been suitable to protect the mortgage in the event 
of his death or diagnosis with a critical illness. They also said that it was reasonable to 
assume the existing mortgage endowment policy, taken in 1983, provided critical illness 
cover. Barclays confirmed that it had received the provisional decision and it had nothing further to 
add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would clarify one point in relation to the recommendations. The administrators have asked 
why a financial adviser would recommend multiple policies if they thought that the 
applications would be turned down. That is a logical question, but at the point the adviser 
made those recommendations, Mr Fs medical situation wouldnt have been explored. 
Medical questions wouldnt be asked until the recommendations had been made, accepted 
and the applications were being completed. 
I would also confirm that in 1983 critical illness cover wasnt something that was commonly 
available as an add-on for other types of protection policies, such as mortgage endowment 
policies. So I am satisfied that it is highly unlikely that Mr Fs existing endowment policy 
included critical illness cover. 
I note the administrators dont agree with me that Mr Fs employer benefits wouldnt have 
been considered suitable for a mortgage, but that remains the case. While Mr F may have 
been with his employer for a long time, ongoing employment wasnt guaranteed. In addition, 
as is evidenced by the information the administrators provided, businesses can be taken 
over and it is often the case that pension and benefit arrangements can change when this 
happens. That can also happen when an employer simply wants to make changes. The 
benefits are not reliable enough to be considered suitable for mortgage protection. 
The administrators have reiterated their opinion about the 2006 premium and that they think 
it evidences that one of the policies recommended in 1998 was taken out and existed eight 
years later. I understand what they are saying, but the combination of the premium being 
significantly different to that expected for either of the policies, and the fact there is no record 
of Mr F having a protection policy with Woolwich Life, doesnt support either of the 
recommended policies existing. 
I know this will disappoint the administrators, but I havent been persuaded to change my 
conclusion that the evidence doesnt support Mr F having taken either of the recommended 
mortgage endowment or critical illness policies.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman