DRN-3315419
The complaint
Miss M complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined her travel
insurance claim.
What happened
Miss M has an annual multi-trip travel policy through her bank account. In February 2020
she arranged to go on a trip abroad with a relative - they booked flights and hotel
accommodation. She was due to travel in July 2020.
As a result of the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advising against all but essential travel to her
intended destination, she cancelled the trip. She submitted a claim to UKI.
UKI agreed to consider the claim for the unused flights but didnt pay out for the cost of the
hotel accommodation. It said that the policy didnt provide cover for costs that could be
recovered elsewhere and, as the hotel had offered a voucher to use on a future booking, UKI
said this was a form of refund.
Unhappy with this outcome, Miss M complained to UKI and then brought the complaint to
this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and found that as she had been offered
the credit voucher, the accommodation costs were recoverable. And as the policy only
covered claims for irrecoverable losses, she said it was reasonable for UKI to decline this
part of the claim.
Miss M disagreed with our investigator. She said that she didnt get a credit voucher but
instead the hotel agreed to move the dates but that this wasnt appropriate due to the Covid-
19 situation. As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me to
decide. 
On 21 January 2022 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. UKI has settled the claim for the flight costs 
although Ive noted that it has since queried if these were also recoverable - so it seems the
circumstances giving rise to the cancellation are not in dispute. But what I need to consider
is whether UKI has acted reasonably by not reimbursing the costs for the hotel
accommodation.
The relevant part of the travel insurance policy that Miss M took out with UKI states the
following;
What you are covered for
We will reimburse up to £5,000 per insured person, for journey deposits and costs,
which you cannot recover from any other source and this is due to: 
6. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All travel to your
intended destination.
Under the same section of the policy it includes a list of things it wont provide cover for. The
relevant part is as below;
What you are not covered for (exclusions) 
22. Expenses you can recover from elsewhere.
UKI has said that, as Miss M has been offered a credit at the hotel to use for another trip, the
cost is recoverable  and therefore not covered by the policy. Miss M says she wasnt
offered a voucher, the hotel just agreed they could move the trip to a date in the future which
she says wasnt possible due to the situation with Covid-19. And she has also said she no
longer plans to go and stay at the hotel and so this credit isnt of use to her. Ive considered
the points Miss M has made, but Im not persuaded that UKI needs to do anything more. Ill
explain why.
From looking at Miss Ms policy terms and conditions it, like most, if not all, travel insurance
policies on the market, only provides cover for irrecoverable costs. This is because
insurance is designed to indemnify the policyholder only if they are unable to reclaim their
losses from any other source. Miss M was given an option to recover her money, by
rebooking her stay at the hotel for a date in the future. Im therefore persuaded that Miss M
was provided a refund, by way of a credit for the accommodation.
I can understand why Miss M might prefer to have received a cash refund for this cost.
Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans at the time the credit was offered were
somewhat uncertain. Im aware that the offer to rebook was valid from the date of
cancellation, in July 2020, up until the end of December 2021  the end date of that credit
offer has now passed.
Ive thought about this very carefully. Since the date the credit was first offered, travel
restrictions to that country have been relaxed, meaning that it was possible for a trip to take
place prior to December 2021. So, I dont think the terms were so restrictive that Miss M
could not have made use of that offer during that time.
Miss M has told us she didnt have any future plans to visit that hotel, so this is why the
credit was of no use to her. But I must consider that Miss M had originally booked to visit this
country, and, whilst I appreciate she may have no longer wished to go, Ive seen no
evidence which persuades me there was any significant or exceptional reasons to prevent
her from going, and using the offer from the hotel to rebook. So even though the credit may
potentially have expired, Im of the opinion it would put UKI at a disadvantage if I was to
instruct it now to pay, simply because Miss M had chosen not to utilise this credit offer within
the timeframe.
Overall, when taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the credit offered for the hotel
accommodation was a recoverable loss and UKI has acted fairly and within the terms and
conditions of the policy when declining to pay this part of the claim.
Miss M replied to the provisional decision. She said that, at the time of cancelling, she had 
no way of knowing when restrictions would be lifted between the countries and how much a 
new flight would cost. She said the holiday was booked at a set price  which was affordable 
to her at that time. She didnt want the hotel voucher as she had no idea when she would be 
allowed to go or if the cost of the flights would have gone up significantly meaning she 
wouldnt be able to afford it. She also mentioned that this was a special trip with her relative 
and so it wouldnt be the same if it was rebooked.UKI also responded. It said if the voucher has expired, and the provider has not been able to 
extend the offer, it could possibly reconsider the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board Miss Ms comments about the uncertainty surrounding travel at that time 
and also the potential cost increases. And I appreciate why she would rather have had a 
cash refund, especially as this was a special trip she had arranged with a relative. But as 
mentioned in the provisional decision, travel restrictions were relaxed during the voucher 
term and so Miss M could have travelled. And although I understand her concerns about the 
potential for an increase in the travel costs, Im not persuaded that this concern is enough to 
support that the voucher wouldnt have been able to be used in the future. So, Im still of the 
opinion that this cost was recoverable and that UKI acted fairly when declining to pay this 
part of her claim.
UKI has now offered to possibly consider this cost if the provider of the voucher was 
unwilling to extend the timeframe for the credit. If Miss M wishes to take up UKIs offer and 
can obtain the information to confirm the voucher hasnt been extended, she should provide 
this to UKI in order for it to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman