DRN-3247296
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the manner Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited handled claims on his pet insurance policy.
Reference to Red Sands include its agents that administer the policy on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr L had a time-limited policy covering vets fees for his dog up to a maximum of £2,000 per 
condition per year. In 2020 Mr Ls dog, who Ill refer to as H, became unwell. Hs regular vets 
diagnosed H with Cushings disease. H required radio-therapy treatment at an animal 
hospital (the hospital) for a pituitary tumour.
Mr L claimed on his policy for the treatment. Red Sands paid some of Mr Ls claims. But 
after submitting a bill from the hospital of around £9,300, Red Sands wrote to him. It said it 
was sorry to hear that H had passed away. It also said that as Mr L had reached his policy 
limit it was only paying around £190 of his claim for the hospital treatment.
Mr L complained, he said his dog was still alive. He also said the treatment for Hs tumour 
should be considered a separate condition to his Cushings disease and so a separate policy 
limit should apply.
Red Sands acknowledged it had made a mistake when saying that Mr Ls dog had died and 
apologised. But it said it felt that it had dealt with the claim appropriately.
Mr L didn't agree and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. 
She didnt think Red Sands needed to take any further action. 
Mr L didnt agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Mr Ls policy has a limit of £2,000 per condition - subject to him paying his excess and a 
co-payment. And once his claims have reached that limit Red Sands will no longer cover the 
cost of treatment for the same condition. Mr Ls argument is that Hs tumour is a separate 
condition to the Cushing's disease and as such a separate £2,000 limit should apply.
Mr Ls policy says that a condition is:
any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from 
the same disease process 
That means that if Hs tumour is related to his Cushings disease then treatment for either of 
those would fall under the same policy limit. So I need to decide whether or not it was fair for 
Red Sands to believe that the Cushing's and the tumour resulted from the same disease 
process and as such are related. 
In this case the hospital wrote a discharge letter after treating H in February 2021. In that 
letter the hospital said:
H[] has been diagnosed by your vets with hyperadrenocorticism (Cushing's disease). This 
is a disease that is caused by an overproduction of cortisol, a steroid. This can be due to 
either a pituitary or adrenal tumour. In H[]s case it is caused by a big pituitary tumour 
[emphasis added] (pituitary macroadenoma).
I think thats clear that the hospital said Hs tumour caused his Cushing's disease. In those 
circumstances treatment for the tumour would fall under the same policy limits as any 
treatment for the Cushing's.
But, in April 2021, the hospital sent an email indicating that the tumour wasnt related to the 
Cushings. Hs regular vets addressed this in May 2021 when it said:
H[]has been diagnosed with Cushings Syndrome - pituitary dependent. This means that 
he has hyperadrenocorticism originating from a mass (tumour) on his pituitary gland (in 
brain). Therefore, the radiotherapy and tumour treatment at [the hospital] is all linked to his 
Cushings Syndrome. The Cushings syndrome is caused by the mass on his gland at the 
base of his brain.
In other words the vets confirmed that the hospital had been treating H for a condition 
related to his Cushings disease. Its not clear to me why the hospital said the Cushings and 
the tumour werent related in April 2021, when it had very clearly said prior to that the tumour 
was the cause of Hs Cushing's. But its clear that Hs regular vets were insistent that the 
tumour was the cause of the Cushing's and as such are related. 
However, in a later email, the hospital said that while tumours like Hs are known to cause 
Cushing's, as it hadn't done a biopsy of the tumour, it couldn't make a definitive diagnosis 
that was the case.
So I've thought about whether Red Sands decision to say that the two conditions are related 
was fair. I should say that I have no veterinary qualifications. My role in deciding this 
complaint doesnt require that I have them. Instead Ill give my opinion based mainly on what 
the expert evidence shows me. 
The hospital was initially very clear that Hs tumour was the cause of his Cushing's, as such 
the treatment for the tumour would fall to be considered under the same policy limit as the 
treatment for Cushing's. It was only after Red Sands said it wasnt going to pay the majority 
of the costs of the hospital treatment that the hospital indicated that the two issues weren't 
related. It then later said it hadnt definitively diagnosed whether or not the two issues were 
related. 
I don't find the hospitals later correspondence persuasive. I note it didnt ever explain why it 
had changed its opinion that the Cushing's and the tumour were related. It then changed that 
opinion again to imply they might be related but it hadn't made a definitive diagnosis. But I'm 
satisfied that its earlier clear findings that the tumour caused Hs Cushing's is more convincing. In coming to that conclusion Ive looked at all the evidence from the hospital, 
which clearly initially linked the Cushings and the tumour, as did Mr Ls regular vets. 
Further, I've seen that a well-known animal treatment charity publishes this about Cushing's 
on its website
The majority of Cushings cases are caused by a benign tumour on the pituitary gland. 
Tumours on the adrenal gland also cause this disease, but are less common.
Theres no doubt H had a tumour on his pituitary gland and that such tumours can cause 
Cushing's. And I've seen no evidence he had a tumour on his adrenal gland. So it would 
seem more likely than not that Hs pituitary tumour was the cause of his Cushing's, as 
theres no evidence of another cause for it. That is what the hospital clearly concluded 
initially, regardless that it hadnt done a tumour biopsy. 
So the weight of the evidence is that Hs tumour caused his Cushing's and as such 
treatment for both issues is related. I think its also worth pointing out that the onus is on 
Mr L to prove his claim. That means it is for him to provide evidence that the tumour and 
Cushings arent related but I don't think the evidence from the hospital does that. So I think 
Red Sands decision that the two issues are related, and therefore fall under the same policy 
limit, is reasonable. 
In response to our investigator's assessment of the complaint Mr L asked that the 
ombudsman considering the case should put themselves in his position. And hes told us 
about some very difficult personal circumstances and that Red Sands decision has made 
things worse. I was sorry to read of Mr Ls difficulties, and I can appreciate how 
disappointing Red Sands decision has been for him. But I hope he understands that I must 
come to my conclusions based solely on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint. That means I need to consider if Red Sands applied the policy terms fairly. In 
coming to my conclusions I mustnt be swayed by the difficult circumstances Mr L is 
experiencing. And, having considered the policy terms, for the reasons I've described above 
I think Red Sands decision was fair.
Turning to Red Sands letter in which it referred to Mr Ls dog having recently passed away. 
Red Sands explained that Mr Ls vets had sent it some information referring to another dog. 
The vets realised this and let Red Sands know of its mistake. But its apparent that 
Red Sands claims handler didnt identify this before writing to Mr L to say the dog had died. 
Red Sands quickly apologised for its error. Mr L doesn't think that apology goes far enough, 
but having thought about this very carefully I'm satisfied that Red Sands doesn't need to take 
any further action. Thats because Mr L was clearly aware that his dog hadn't died. So he 
knew straightaway that this was a mistake. And Red Sands equally as quickly took steps to 
put things right by apologising. So while its mistake was anything but ideal, I believe its 
prompt apology was enough to address the impact on Mr L of that mistake. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 Joe Scott
Ombudsman