DRN-3630681
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S have complained about a secured second charge loan that they hold with 
Elderbridge Limited. Their complaint points fall under the following broad headings:
The balance outstanding on the loan.
The offer they made to repay a lump sum of less than the amount outstanding in full 
and final settlement of the debt.
How theyve been treated whilst they were in financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022, the findings of which said:
I trust Mrs and Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The figures on the loan agreement are based on a person paying all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. That didnt 
happen here as Mrs and Mr S have been in arrears. As interest is constantly being charged 
this means its not as simple as making up a missed payment, theres also the extra 
interest incurred for every day that payment is overdue. This interest can add up 
significantly.
Up until the loan was transferred to Elderbridge there had been a few late payments, albeit 
each time the payments (but not the extra interest) were made up about a week later. But 
then from July 2018 the payments were made late every single month, until the payments 
ceased following the payment made in August 2019. As Ive explained above, each of 
those late payments meant extra interest would be charged for every day they were late.
Ive reviewed the transaction history provided by Elderbridge and I cant see any errors in 
how it has calculated Mrs and Mr S mortgage balance or overall redemption figure 
required. Its not possible for us to carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an account 
history. Its open to Mrs and Mr S to instruct a suitably qualified independent accountant to 
do that for them. That would have to be at their expense, though if an error were found to 
their financial detriment they could include any reasonable costs of finding it in any fresh 
complaint that followed.
I can see Mrs and Mr S were focussed on what Elderbridge paid lender F when it took over 
the loan. They mentioned this many times they spoke and wrote to Elderbridge about their 
financial difficulties, focussing on their request for a short settlement rather than any help 
Elderbridge could offer whilst the loan was still in force. Theyve said to us:
We made a full and final offer which would have stopped the arrears and covered 
the price they paid for the loan from [lender F] but again they couldnt see the sense 
in that - they would have had no loss.
They bought that loan from [lender F] for a pittance and have made a hefty 
unreasonable profit on the back of it.
The original contract Mrs and Mr S entered into, under the heading Amounts payable on 
early settlement said You have a right to bring this Agreement to an end at any time by 
making a single payment. The amount payable will be: (a) the balance of the Loan 
including all arrears and charges applicable, if any, plus interest up to the settlement 
date
It also said You agree we may assign our rights under this Agreement and the Legal 
Charge to any person subject to such assignment not prejudicing your rights hereunder 
and references to us shall include our successors and assigns.
From this we can see that the conditions of the loan allowed it to be transferred from lender 
F to Elderbridge, and that upon that transfer taking place all the terms and conditions of the 
loan remained the same, including the amount that would be due if Mrs and Mr S wanted to 
end the loan early.
The amount Elderbridge paid lender F for the loan is commercially sensitive and not 
information that would be disclosed to Mrs and Mr S, nor is it relevant to the underlying 
agreement and Mrs and Mr S obligations under that agreement. Put simply, Elderbridge 
didnt have to give Mrs and Mr S that information, nor did it have to accept a short 
settlement because of it.
Mrs and Mr S made a formal short settlement request which was turned down by 
Elderbridge once it had all the information to consider that request. Elderbridge had warned 
Mrs and Mr S in advance of their formal request that it was unlikely to be accepted 
because there was sufficient equity in the property for the loan to be repaid in full, and that 
seems reasonable.
Ive considered what Elderbridge has said about needing the short settlement request to be 
made in writing. I dont think that was unreasonable and, in this case, there were no 
barriers to Mrs and Mr S dealing with this in writing. Elderbridge didnt just need the income 
and expenditure information, they also required some signed forms and supporting 
documents. I acknowledge that the process took some time, but there was no financial loss 
incurred due to the delay and Elderbridge had already warned Mrs and Mr S over the 
phone that it was unlikely to be accepted, so it had managed their expectations 
accordingly.
I acknowledge Mrs and Mr S wanted to keep as much as possible from the sale of the 
property, that is entirely understandable. But this was a secured loan with a balance of 
around £58,000 so it doesnt seem unreasonable that Elderbridge wasnt willing to accept 
just £13,500 in a short settlement when the full sum was available upon sale.
Elderbridge suppressed the interest from the point it turned down Mrs and Mr S short 
settlement until the property sold  a period of around eight weeks  and that seems a fair 
offer for it to have made.Having listened to the calls, and read through all the correspondence, I dont think Mrs and 
Mr S were engaging with Elderbridge as much as I would expect, bearing in mind this was 
a loan secured against their property that was in significant arrears with no payments being 
made. They werent willing to take financial advice with a view to decreasing their 
non-priority outgoings which would have been a way to free up funds to instead make at 
least token payments towards this secured loan. Mrs and Mr S said that their outgoings 
(even before looking at the non-priority bills) was higher than their income but having 
looked at the bank statements they provided I can see they were still making payments 
towards those non-priority bills somehow, so if those payments had been reduced or 
stopped that money could instead have been paid to Elderbridge.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mrs and Mr S were in, I can 
understand why Elderbridge was unable to get any assistance in place as it wasnt 
receiving the full information and level of engagement it needed from Mrs and Mr S. Ive no 
reason to believe that Elderbridge wouldnt have looked at what concessions it could offer 
much sooner (such as it did in May 2021 when it suppressed the interest) had it received 
the information and level of engagement it needed from Mrs and Mr S.
Mrs and Mr S didnt have a covid-19 payment deferral period with Elderbridge, but I cant 
say that was Elderbridges fault. At the point Mrs and Mr S mentioned a payment break (at 
the end of March 2020) it was instead considering whether it could offer even more help 
than that. Unfortunately, Mrs and Mr S didnt provide the information it needed so it could 
consider what it could offer instead  that might have been more beneficial to Mrs and Mr S 
 and so nothing could be put in place. As Mr S didnt call Elderbridge back following its 
call of 20 April 2020, it sent them a text message on 30 April with the link so they could 
apply for a covid-19 payment deferral. Unfortunately Mrs and Mr S didnt complete the 
online form, so no request was made.
Ive no reason to believe that the covid-19 payment deferral wouldnt have been granted if 
Mrs and Mr S had applied for it through the online form, and Elderbridge required all its 
customers to apply in that way so it wasnt treating Mrs and Mr S any differently to how it 
treated everyone else. I cant see there were any barriers to Mrs and Mr S applying through 
the link that was sent to them, and so I cant hold Elderbridge liable for a payment deferral 
not being put in place.
In any event, Mrs and Mr S werent disadvantaged by not having the payment deferral as 
by then their account was already seven months in arrears (September 2019 until March 
2020, inclusive) and the interest would have still been charged during the payment deferral 
period, so all that would have happened is that Mrs and Mr S wouldnt have made their 
loan payments for those months, which they didnt anyway.
In summary, I think Elderbridge could have done more; just making one attempted call 
between April 2020 and January 2021 (in September 2020) wasnt enough. However, I 
dont think more contact from Elderbridge would have changed matters, bearing in mind 
the level of engagement from Mrs and Mr S when they were contacted.
It seems Mrs and Mr S were focussed on a short settlement, rather than paying 
Elderbridge what they could each month (by reducing or stopping their non-priority 
expenditure), and I dont think  on balance  it is likely that some extra calls from 
Elderbridge would have changed that.
Elderbridge wasnt in a position to decide what forbearance measures would be suitable for 
Mrs and Mr S without having the full picture and the level of engagement it needed, and 
offers from Mrs and Mr S to pay just the interest, or £100 a month, never came into fruition 
despite Elderbridge providing the details Mrs and Mr S needed to make the payments. Having considered everything, whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs and Mr S 
situation, Im not persuaded this complaint should be upheld for all the reasons Ive given.
Elderbridge confirmed it had nothing further to add, and Mrs and Mr S didnt respond, 
despite a reminder of the deadline.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the whole file afresh, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman