DRN-4268203
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank didnt provide him 
with sufficient notice that an interest free period was coming to an end on his credit card.
What happened
Mr W noticed that interest was being applied to his credit card, but he believed he was on a 
0% interest free offer. He said that he didnt see any notifications that this offer was coming 
to an end on his online account and nor did he receive a letter, or text message about this. 
He complained to Tesco and it responded, explaining that in August 2021 Mr W took out an 
offer where the interest rate on his balance would be 0% for 18 months. It then clarified that 
on Mr Ws December 2022 statement that the rate would be coming to an end in February 
2023. Tesco also mentioned that it sent an additional email to Mr W in January 2023, 
reminding him that his rate would be coming to an end in February 2023.
Tesco explained that the 0% period did come to an end in February 2023, but that due to a 
systems issue  interest wasnt applied on Mr Ws March 2023 statement. Tesco 
acknowledged that and placed an interest hold on Mr Ws account until his May statement, 
to allow him to deal with this issue.
Mr W wasnt happy with how Tesco dealt with this so he referred his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into this and found that Tesco had acted fairly in the 
circumstances. They said that the terms of the initial offer were clear. They added that there 
was notification of the offers end date in Mr Ws December 2022 statement and that Tesco 
had emailed him about this. They also felt that Tescos offer to not apply interest which 
would otherwise have been due because of its systems error was fair.
Mr W disagreed, saying that Tesco should have notified him of the offer coming to an end by 
letter and have been clearer when it mentioned this on his statements. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W feels very strongly that Tesco has acted wrongly and unfairly here. As 
our investigator has explained, its not for this service to regulate or criticise business 
policies in a wider sense  such as how Tesco gives notice to customers about when 
interest free offers are coming to an end. Instead our role is to consider whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint.
Having done so, I think Tesco has acted fairly. Ive seen the terms relating to the interest 
free period that Mr W would have seen when he applied for it  and I think these are clear 
about when the offer would come to an end. Then Ive seen the statement from December 
2022  and the relevant date that the offer comes to an end is made clear on there too. On 
the first page of the statement, it says: Please note that your introductory purchase rate will 
expire 20/02/2023, the standard monthly variable rate will apply after that date.
Mr W said that he may not have taken much notice of that, given the time of year and his 
understanding that his interest rate offer was ending sometime in 2023. But, viewed 
impartially, I think Tesco was just giving Mr W fair notice of what was going to happen so 
that he could take any actions that he needed to.
I know that Mr W thinks that Tesco should have written to him independently of the 
statements to tell him this, or that it should have placed more notifications on his statements 
after December 2022. But I think that by providing the notice it did in December 2022, this 
was sufficiently clear and fair to remind him of the terms of the offer that was in place. Mr W 
didnt see that or perhaps didnt take enough notice of it  but thats not something I can hold 
Tesco responsible for.
Mr W says that the systems issue around interest not being applied in March means that he 
believed that the offer was still in place. I can see why he may have thought that  but it 
doesnt change my thoughts around Tesco providing him with sufficient notice of the rate 
coming to an end. Ultimately, Tesco would have been entitled to apply that interest and by 
not doing so in the circumstances, I think its acted fairly. I havent seen that Tesco has 
applied this to the wrong statement as Mr W says, nor do I think that its decision to refund 
this for one month means that it should do it for another month.
Finally, Mr W believes that Tesco should have allowed him to speak to a manager and, were 
he able to, then he wouldnt have needed to approach this service. But, Tesco is entitled to 
choose how it deals with complaints. Its done so here in line with the relevant rules and 
guidelines. It responded to Mr Ws complaint and told him about his right to bring it to this 
service which is what Id expect to see. He may not have spoken to a manager, but I havent 
seen anything in the information provided here to suggest that would have led to a different 
outcome.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman