DRN-4125079
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC went back on an agreement to let him switch to a 
new fixed interest rate product on his mortgage after his partner had passed away. 
What happened
In 2021 Mr M and his late partner took out a residential mortgage of around £320,000 with 
Barclays. They had a two-year fixed interest rate product that was due to end in May 2023. If 
the mortgage was repaid sooner, an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £6,390 had to 
be paid.
Mr Ms partner passed away in September 2021. Mr M recalls Barclays telling him at around 
that time hed be able to switch his mortgage to a new fixed interest rate within 18 months of 
the loss of his partner and that he wouldnt need to go through an affordability assessment or 
incur an ERC when he did.
In early August 2022 Mr M spoke to a Barclays adviser about switching the rate. The adviser 
helped him carry out an on-line application. When Mr M didnt receive confirmation of the 
rate switch as hed expected, he contacted Barclays to find out why.
Barclays said that before the switch could take place, hed need to go through a transfer of 
equity (TOE) application and an affordability assessment. They also said he was too early to 
apply for a new rate if he planned to start it when the existing rate expired. And if he wanted 
to come out of the existing deal straight away, hed have to pay the ERC.
Mr M complained. He was unhappy Barclays had gone back on what hed understood theyd 
told him in 2021. He thought they should honour the rate he applied for in August 2022. And 
he was unhappy about delays. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
While our investigator was looking into things, Barclays offered Mr M £300 compensation. 
Our investigator thought that was fair to put things right. He said, broadly, Barclays should 
have explained on the August 2022 call the steps Mr M needed to take to remove his late 
partner from the mortgage. But he had to do that before he could change the interest rate. 
Since he wasnt eligible for a product switch in August 2022, it wasnt fair to ask Barclays to 
honour the rate he applied for at the time. And since he was tied to an existing product, he 
would have had to pay the ERC to move to a new product before the deal had expired.
Mr M didnt agree. He thought Barclays should give him the rate hed applied for in August 
2022. Since they hadnt, hed missed out on a lower interest rate. And hed calculated his 
mortgage would cost him around £20,000 more in interest than it would have done if his 
application had been accepted.
Since Mr Ms complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of Mr Ms bereavement and of the financial pressures hes been under. I 
can understand hes had a difficult time. And I appreciate his strength of feeling about whats 
happened. However, whilst I understand hell be disappointed, Ive come to the same 
outcome about his complaint as our investigator for similar reasons, as Ill explain. 
Mr M recalls speaking to Barclays in 2021 shortly after his partner passed away. He 
remembers Barclays telling him hed be able to switch the interest rate product on his 
mortgage within 18 months of his partners death without going through an affordability 
assessment or incurring an ERC. 
Ive no reason to doubt a conversation took place then. Unfortunately, Barclays havent 
found a call recording from the time linked to the telephone numbers they held for Mr M. And 
Mr Ms been unable to tell us the number he called on. So, it isnt possible to check what 
was discussed. 
Im conscious that memories fade over time. And Mr M told Barclays when he spoke to them 
in early August 2022 that he couldnt remember what theyd told him the year before. Thats 
understandable given the circumstances. Its possible Barclays said he could apply for a new 
rate in 18 months since the existing rate was due to expire in May 2023. But, based on the 
available evidence, I cant reach any firm conclusions about that or say that Barclays made a 
mistake at the time.
When Mr M spoke to Barclays in early August 2022, he told the adviser hed lost his partner 
and about his understanding from the earlier conversation that he could now apply for a new 
rate. The adviser noted he was on a fixed rate and said shed need to check if he could 
switch early. From what she said, I can understand why Mr M thought no ERC would be 
payable if he did. And she helped Mr M complete and submit an on-line application for a new 
two-year fixed interest rate product. From the overall conversation and the written 
confirmation he got after successfully submitting an application, it was reasonable for Mr M 
to think the application would go through. 
Barclays have acknowledged their adviser should have told Mr M a TOE was required 
before he could complete a rate switch application. And she should have booked him in for 
an appointment with a mortgage adviser instead of giving him the option to apply on-line 
himself. 
I can understand Mr M was unhappy with the delay in his application being considered. He 
chased Barclays. Their notes suggest theyd looked into Mr Ms situation in early August. But 
it wasnt until around the end of September, following some exchanges of correspondence, 
that they explained fully that the application couldnt go ahead until his late partners name 
had been taken off the account and, once that had happened, hed incur an ERC if he 
switched before the existing deal ended, or would have to apply later to avoid that. 
Barclays mistake was failing to explain what needed to happen before Mr M could apply for 
a rate switch and giving him the impression that the August 2022 application would succeed. 
But they didnt give any guarantee it would. The application failed once Mr Ms 
circumstances were looked into more closely. And Barclays explained things clearly to Mr M 
at the end of September 2022. Since Mr Ms application couldnt have succeeded at the 
time, it wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to honour the rate he applied for in August.Mr M and his late partner were tied into the existing fixed interest rate product until May 
2023. Barclays restricted Mr M from applying for a new rate until the last few months of the 
existing deal unless he wanted to get out it by paying the ERC. And the new rate would only 
then have come into effect once the existing deal had ended. 
Mr M said he could have paid the ERC to get out of the existing deal and secure a lower rate 
to save money in the long run. But Barclays required the TOE to go through first. They 
wanted to see his late partners will and any grant of probate. I note Mr M didnt agree that 
was necessary since hes registered as the sole owner of the property at the land registry. 
But it was reasonable for Barclays to check Mr Ms entitlement to his late partners share of 
the property, that hed be able to afford the mortgage on his own and that their security 
wouldnt be adversely affected by the TOE. That was in line with their obligations to lend 
responsibly and their valid commercial interests. 
I understand Mr Ms unhappy the TOE application hasnt gone ahead even though hes sent 
Barclays the documents theyve asked for. Since thats not part of the complaint Mr M 
originally brought to us in December 2022, I cant consider it here. Hed need to complain 
separately to Barclays before we could look into it. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in relation to the 
interest rate application or that it would be fair to require them to honour the rate he applied 
for in August 2022. However, Mr M told us Barclays poor communication led to stress and 
concerns about his finances. I think its fair they compensate Mr M for the delays and poor 
service as Ill explain below.
Putting things right
Mr M reasonably expected his application to go through from his discussion with Barclays in 
August 2022. And hed had to chase Barclays for a response to his application over several 
weeks. I think Barclays should have communicated better and more quickly initially. I can 
understand the delay was upsetting for Mr M at an already difficult time following the loss of 
his partner and issues hes told us arose in relation to that. And it took Barclays until the end 
of September 2022 to explain what he needed to do. But their explanation was clear, and  
Mr M had the information he needed to take things forward to sort his mortgage out then.
Mr M decided to complain. And hes unhappy that his complaint wasnt dealt with more 
quickly. We cant generally consider complaints about complaint handling. Id note Barclays 
had eight weeks to provide a response. They werent obliged to. And they failed to provide 
one in the end. But they kept Mr M updated about the progress of his complaint and let him 
know he could bring it to us after eight weeks had gone by. So, they followed the right 
process. And Mr M was able to bring his complaint to us to consider. 
Bearing all the above in mind, I think the offer of compensation Barclays made of £300 is fair 
and reasonable. And they should now pay that sum to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr M £300 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Julia WilkinsonOmbudsman