DRN-3223249
Complaint
Ms A has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) irresponsibly 
provided her with unaffordable loans. 
Background
Everyday Lending provided Ms A with two loans. The first loan for £2,000.00 was provided in 
July 2018. It had an APR of 106.8% and was due to be paid in 24 monthly instalments of 
£159.34, which meant that the total amount repayable was £3,824.16. Ms A repaid this loan 
early in January 2019. 
Ms A was then provided with a second loan for £5,000.00 in August 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 81.1% and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £281.33, which meant 
the total amount to be repaid was £13,503.84. 
One of our adjudicators considered Ms As complaint. She told Everyday Lending that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that Ms A wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments to these loans. So she thought that Everyday Lending 
shouldnt have provided Ms A with these loans and upheld the complaint. Everyday Lending 
didnt think it did anything wrong and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Ms As complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms As complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Ms A would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make fair lending decisions?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Ms A wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that  
Ms A would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations in place when Everyday Lending lent to Ms A required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her 
loan in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms A. In 
practice this meant that Everyday Lending had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loans wouldnt cause Ms A undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it 
wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Ms A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Everyday Lending checks reasonable and proportionate?
Everyday Lending says that it carried out income and expenditure assessments with Ms A 
prior to providing her with both her loans. This information was validated credit checks and 
bank statements which Ms A provided. 
So bearing in mind Everyday Lending says and has evidenced that it obtained a significant 
amount of information on Ms As circumstances, Im prepared to accept that it did carry out 
proportionate checks  at least in terms of the information requested  before providing 
these loans to Ms A.Did Everyday Lending make fair lending decisions?
It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information,
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Everyday Lending says its assessment of 
the information obtained led it to conclude that Ms As loans were affordable for her as shed 
be able to sustainably make her repayments.
Everyday Lending was required to establish whether Ms A could make her loan repayments 
without borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided in light of this. Having done so, its worth 
noting that Everyday Lendings checks showed that Ms A had missed payments on loans 
and credit cards and had a history of payday lending. And while Ms A didnt have an 
overdraft she was nonetheless regularly incurring unarranged overdraft fees. 
By the time of loan 2, the position was arguably worse as while most of the factors present at 
the time loan 1 was agreed were still present in August 2019, Ms A actually owed more. 
Furthermore, its also worth noting that Ms A repaid what she owed on loan 1 as a result of 
borrowing from another lender. So Everyday Lending ought to have been on notice that     
Ms A was repaying previous debts by borrowing further by this stage too.
In my view, while Everyday Lending believed that the monthly payments were pounds and 
pence affordable for Ms A, the information available suggested Ms A was always unlikely to 
be able to make the payments she was being asked to commit to without borrowing further 
or suffering significant adverse consequences. 
Bearing this in mind, and what exactly it was Everyday Lending was required to consider, Im 
satisfied that Everyday Lendings decision to provide these loans to Ms A wasnt fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms A in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Everyday Lending acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms A in 
some other way.  
So I find that Everyday Lending didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms A in some 
other way.  
Did Ms A lose out as a result of Everyday Lending unfairly and unreasonably providing her 
with these loans?
I think that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Ms As indebtedness. This loan 
wasnt cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and she ended up paying 
interest and charges on loans which she shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So I find that Ms A lost out because Everyday Lending unfairly provided her with these 
loans.
Fair compensation what Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right for Ms A
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms As complaint for Everyday Lending to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms A paid on these loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded interest, fees and charges    
Ms A paid from the date they were made to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information on Ms As credit file as a result 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms As complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman