DRN-2491519
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complain about the standard of service from their insurer, Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). Their complaint relates to the rejection of a claim for damage 
to their house from a collapsed ceiling under a home insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs E and Mr E contacted RSA about a collapsed ceiling above one of 
the bathrooms in their house.
 
Mrs E and Mr E had previously complained in August 2020 about the ceiling above the 
bathroom sagging to the company that carried out work in March 2020 to install a new 
heating system and loft insulation. Mrs E and Mr E stated that there was no problem with the 
ceiling before the work was carried out. The company inspected the ceiling and the loft two 
days after Mrs E and Mr E contacted them. In their report following the inspection dated 
August 2020 the company concluded that the ceiling was marked with what they thought 
was excessive condensation and previous water leakage from the old water tank (which they 
had replaced) or through the roof. The report also concluded that there was no evidence of 
leakage from the work they had carried out, but that it was most likely that leakage had 
occurred before their work and that the damage was pre-existing.
As the cause of the ceiling collapse was not clear, RSA appointed their own building 
surveyors (B) to inspect the damage and to validate Mrs E and Mr Es claim on RSAs 
behalf. B inspected the property and concluded that there was no evidence that the 
collapsed ceiling was caused by water leakage, but that it was due to natural breakdown of 
materials. RSA considered this to be general wear and tear, which was not covered under 
the terms of the insurance policy. Based on this consideration they decided that no insurable 
event had occurred and therefore declined Mrs E and Mr Es claim.
Mrs E and Mr E complained to RSA about the decision to decline their claim and provided 
additional evidence about a leak in their roof and the damage to the ceiling to support their 
complaint. B carried out a further inspection of the property in November 2020 and 
concluded that the cause of the ceiling collapse was excessive condensation that had not 
been dealt with. Based on this conclusion RSA maintained their original decision to decline 
the claim.
  
Mrs E and Mr E were unhappy at the initial rejection of their claim in September 2020 and 
complained to this service in October 2020. They further complained after the second 
rejection of their claim. The main issues of their complaint were that their claim should not 
have been declined and that there was evidence of damage from a water leak through the 
roof, contrary to the findings of B. They also complained that the damage to the ceiling led to 
significant physical and emotional harm to their family.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the issues raised by Mrs E and Mr E. The investigator concluded that 
the insurer had acted fairly in the way that they had rejected Mrs E and Mr Es complaint. 
The investigator also concluded that RSA had not acted unreasonably in the time taken to 
arrange for their building experts to inspect the damage and to consider their claim.
Mrs E and Mr E disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mrs E and Mr E.
The first part of Mrs E and Mr Es complaint is that their claim should not have been rejected, 
and that the collapse of the ceiling was due to either an escape of water from their old water 
tank, or from a leak in the roof. Their view is that either - or both - of these causes should 
have been covered under their policy.
Ive considered the evidence available concerning the incident. This includes the report from 
the company that inspected the sagging ceiling (and which had installed the new heating 
system), the report from B, as well as the evidence provided by Mrs E and Mr E, including 
photos of the damage. The evidence from the two reports is conflicting, and it is not possible 
to establish a definitive cause of the collapse.
 
Ive also considered the three possible causes of the sagging identified in the first report 
against the terms and conditions of Mrs E and Mr Es policy to conclude whether they would 
have been covered. In rejecting Mrs E and Mr Es claim, RSA referred to a specific exclusion 
clause in the policy that stated:
Uninsurable risks  Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or 
indirectly caused by or resulting from:
Wear and tear, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, 
condensation or deterioration, or anything that happens gradually over a period of 
time.
Poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
I note that this exclusion clause refers specifically to condensation, one of the three potential 
causes. I also think that any leak from the old water tank, given that it had been replaced six 
months prior to the collapse, would be something that happened gradually over a period of 
time, as well as being likely to be due to one of the factors under the wear and tear 
description set out above. Similarly, a leak from the roof  if not caused by a storm  would 
also be likely to be caused by one of those factors.
 
On this basis, Ive concluded that RSA acted reasonably in declining Mrs E and Mr Es claim 
as it was not likely, on the balance of probabilities, to have been caused by an insurable 
event under the terms of the policy.
Turning to the second part of Mrs E and Mr Es complaint, I want to reassure Mrs E and Mr E 
that I have considered what they have told both RSA and us about their familys 
circumstances and how it may have impacted them in the circumstances of the incident and 
their subsequent claim.
Mrs E and Mr E were concerned at the delay between the collapse of the bathroom ceiling 
and the inspection by B. This period was four days, and the evidence from RSA claim notes 
indicates that they did attempt to arrange an inspection as quickly as possible and to bring 
the date forward. I dont consider four days to be an unreasonable period or delay. 
I recognise that the collapsed ceiling affected the ability of Mrs E and Mr E and their family to 
use the bathroom concerned. Mrs E and Mr E requested alternative accommodation when 
they made their claim, as they were concerned that while there was a second bathroom 
available, it was too small. Ive listened to the recordings of the calls between Mrs E and Mr 
E and RSA at the time of the claim, as well as the case notes provided by RSA, and these 
show that RSA acknowledged their concerns and suggested alternatives, for example that 
they could stay in a hotel and be reimbursed for the cost if their claim was accepted. So I 
think that RSA acted reasonably in their response to Mrs E and Mr Es circumstances.
Ive also considered the terms of Mrs E and Mr Es policy regarding alternative 
accommodation. The policy states that alternative accommodation will be provided:
if your home is uninhabitable as a result of damage caused to your buildings 
caused by an event covered under your policy.
While there was damage that prevented Mrs E and Mr E from using the bathroom affected, I 
dont think that this made their home uninhabitable. This part of the policy would also only 
become operative if the damage was caused by an event covered under the policy, which 
Ive concluded wasnt the case.
For these reasons I believe RSA has acted fairly, and consequently I dont think that they 
should offer Mrs E and Mr E compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs E and Mr Es complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman