DRN-4349793
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold them a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account URCA in January 2009.
They say the account was mis-sold as they were led to believe that by agreeing to the 
account they would pay less fees for their arranged overdraft.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the URCA had 
been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything, I dont think 
that the URCA was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M say that they were told that by upgrading to the URCA, this would reduce the 
amount they would pay to when using their overdraft.
Around the time that the account was sold to Mr and Mrs M, the URCA cost £10 per month. 
In return for the monthly fee, it provided benefits such as a £300 interest free overdraft 
facility, travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile phone cover and home emergency cover 
(amongst other benefits).
When Mr and Mrs M upgraded their account, they had a £400 arranged overdraft. So it 
seems that what Mr and Mrs M were told was correct - that by upgrading their account, they 
would pay less in overdraft interest by having the URCA, than if they had a fee-free account. 
This is because they would not be charged any interest on the first £300 of their overdraft. 
Halifax has provided evidence to show that Mr and Mrs M claimed on the breakdown cover a 
number of times. It has also provided evidence that Mr and Mrs M registered two phones 
and made a claim on the mobile phone insurance; and called up about the home emergency 
cover that was included with the account too.
So taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M agreed to the 
account solely to reduce the amount of interest they paid when using the overdraft. Instead, 
the evidence indicates that Mr and Mrs M were attracted to, and able to benefit from, a 
number of features included with the URCA. 
I have considered whether the account was sold on an advised, or non-advised basis. Ive 
not seen anything, including Mr and Mrs Ms testimony, that makes me think that the account 
was sold on an advised basis. This means that Halifax didnt have to check whether the 
account was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. But it did have to provide them with important 
information about the account and the associated products, so they could decide this for 
themselves.
From what I have seen, I think Mr and Mrs M were given at least some information about the 
account during the sale. I say this because they seem to have been aware there was a 
monthly fee for the account. And their benefit usage indicates they had a good appreciation 
of what products came with the account, how to register phones and who to contact to make 
claims.
I recognise its possible that Halifax may not have provided Mr and Mrs M with all of the 
information about the account that it shouldve during the sale. But that being said, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs M wouldve been put off from agreeing to the URCA, had 
they been given even more information about it.
Given the above, I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs M have said that the monthly account fee, amongst other 
things, caused them to spiral into debt. 
I have looked through a number of statements spanning a number of years whilst they held 
the URCA, but I cant see that was the case. I can see that the account would regularly go 
overdrawn, but they also regularly paid money into the account bringing it back into a credit 
balance. So I dont think there was anything about how they operated the account that ought 
to have made Halifax think that they may be in financial difficulties. Nor can I see that they 
told Halifax that they were in financial difficulties either.
As such, based on the evidence I have seen I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold, nor 
do I think that Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs M in this 
matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman