DRN-2731825
The complaint
Mr I complains about the storage charges he incurred when collection was delayed on a car 
he had been financing through an agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS). Hes also unhappy about the excess mileage charge hes been asked to 
pay.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr I, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr I acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the mileage charges
The terms of the finance agreement explain that the annual permitted mileage is 10,000 per 
year. Id expect Mr Is monthly charge to increase if thered been an agreement to increase 
that mileage allowance. But MBFS have explained there has not been an increase and they 
have no record of an agreement being reached for a higher mileage allowance.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest an increased allowance was agreed or that Mr I 
was entitled to that through his maintenance agreement.
Ive considered the charges MBFS have made in respect of the 13,140 additional miles Mr I 
has covered, and I think theyve been applied fairly. 
storage costs
I havent seen evidence that MBFS agreed to pay storage costs when the collection was 
missed, and arrangements couldnt be made to collect the car until 14 September. So, I dont 
think it would be fair for MBFS to refund the charges Mr I incurred. 
I can see that MBFS agreed to reduce Mr Is bill by 10% in respect of the inconvenience the 
failed collection caused. I think, in all the circumstances, this was sufficient and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman