DRN-3115414
The complaint
Mr D complained to The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) about problems he experienced 
when trying to access their online banking service.
What happened
Mr D holds an account with RBS. As he is resident outside of the UK, Mr D relies upon 
accessing his account using RBSs online banking service.
In January 2021, Mr D experienced problems logging in to RBSs online banking service. 
This resulted in his online access being locked. This meant he wasnt able to use the service 
until his access was unlocked by RBS.
He made various attempts to resolve his problem, both through the automated system, on 
RBSs website, and by calling them. When calling RBS, he said he was left waiting and on 
hold for periods of time. As he was calling from outside of the UK, this meant that he 
incurred additional call costs. 
Mr D finally spoke to RBS on 29 January 2021 and explained his problem to them. RBS 
investigated and found that hed entered the wrong password details. This led to his account 
access being locked. RBS wrote to Mr D on 10 February 2021. They apologised that no one 
at RBS had been able to help him and that hed experienced costs as a result. They credited 
his account with £50 to reflect Mr Ds call costs and the inconvenience caused.
RBS told Mr D his online banking problems had resulted from multiple failed login attempts 
due to incorrect partial password being entered each time. They said Mr D would need to 
complete an online re-enrolment to reset your PIN and password.
Mr D wasnt happy with RBSs response to his complaint. Having attempted to reset his 
password details, he experienced further problems. Mr D said that RBSs online banking 
asked him to input the 13th letter of his password. But his password didnt have 13 letters. He 
said this resulted in his account being locked again.
So, Mr D referred his complaint to this service. He thought that RBS took too long to deal 
with his complaint. He said that RBS were effectively holding (his money) and barring him 
from (accessing it). He also said, when he called them, he was regularly put on hold with 
nobody answering. He thought that RBS were acting fraudulently.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. RBS said that when a new password 
is set up, their system sometimes asks for letters from the old password first. They said this 
was a known issue and may explain why Mr D was asked to input a 13th character when he 
tried to login. Our investigator said that Mr D wouldnt have known this and didnt think that 
RBS had acted fairly. She though that RBS should pay Mr D an additional amount of £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by this.
RBS reconsidered their position and offered a further £100 compensation over and above 
the £50 already paid to Mr D. But Mr D didnt think this was enough. So, he asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS said that Mr Ds original problems stemmed from him inputting the wrong password 
details when he tried to login to their online banking service. Theyve provided this service 
with the activity data relating to Mr Ds use of their online banking service. This shows that 
Mr D had problems logging into his account on 13 January 2021, when he input incorrect 
password details. So, Im persuaded that this was the cause of the original problem. I 
understand and appreciate Mr Ds frustration, but I cant reasonable hold RBS responsible if 
he inputs the wrong details.
It isnt unusual for banks to lock their customers account access in situation like this. This is 
to protect the account from fraudulent access attempts by an unauthorised party. Thats 
what happened here, and it required Mr D to take steps to reactivate his account access. So, 
I think the requirement for Mr D to re-enrol and reset his password details is a reasonable 
one.
Mr D said he called RBS to try to do this. But each time, he called them, he was put on hold 
and left waiting. I understand that RBS have an automated call answering system which 
recognises the telephone number of their customer and routes the call as necessary. 
Unfortunately, this didnt happen in Mr Ds case. RBS said this can happen where a call is 
received from outside of the UK. Their system does not appear to recognise the incoming 
number. So, unfortunately this led to the waits that Mr D experienced. I can appreciate how 
this would be very frustrating for Mr D and RBS have apologised for these delays. I think it 
was right that RBS acknowledged this problem.
I understand that Mr D was, ultimately, successful in resetting his online banking access by 
setting up a new password. But it appears there were further problems when he attempted to 
login with the new password. RBSs online system asked Mr D to input the 13th character of 
his password  His new password didnt have 13 letters. So, this led to his account being 
locked again.
RBS have admitted that this was a known problem. Their system sometimes asks for letters 
from the previous password, when first logging back in. But I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect Mr D to know this. RBS hadnt explained this to him. So, I think that 
RBS should reflect this by compensating Mr D for the additional distress and inconvenience 
caused by their systems error.
RBS have offered to pay a further £100 compensation in addition to the £50 theyve already 
paid.  Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not 
be considered so by another. Mr D did experience some inconvenience. But I think the 
amount offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Mr D doesnt agree. 
But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise RBS for their mistakes 
here. Any award is considered based upon the impact RBSs mistake had upon Mr D. And I 
think RBSs offer does that here.
Putting things right
Given all of the above, I agree that RBS did make mistakes here which wouldve been 
frustrating for Mr D. I also appreciate that not having access to funds would have been 
worrying for Mr D. So, I will be upholding his complaint. That said, while I know Mr D will be 
disappointed, I shant be asking RBS to increase their compensation offer any further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to pay further compensation of £100 to Mr D in addition to the £50 theyve 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman