DRN-4004177
The complaint
Mr H complains Lloyds Insurance company SA (Lloyds) unfairly declined his claim on his 
holiday home insurance policy. 
There are several parties and representatives of Lloyds involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Lloyds.
What happened
Mr Hs holiday home was broken into in September 2022 and a number of items were stolen.
The theft occurred at the same time his neighbours property was also broken in to. There 
was no sign of entry to Mr Hs property, so it was thought entry was gained by using spare 
keys that were held at his neighbours property. These keys were found to be missing after 
the neighbour checked his own property after the break ins. 
The break ins were reported to the local police, and they attended.
Mr H made a claim on his holiday home insurance policy that he held with Lloyds. This 
included a claim for all the items stolen and emergency travel costs to get to the holiday 
home after the break in happened.
Lloyds declined to settle his claim. It said cover is only provided for incidents where forcible 
and violent entry is used to gain access to the property whilst it is vacant. It said as access 
was by using a set of keys it could not cover for this incident. It also said that the policy 
stated that all jewellery, watches, cameras, money, and credit cards should be removed from 
the property if it is vacant for more than 48 hours and these items would not be covered.
As Mr H was not happy with Lloyds, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said Lloyds had 
unfairly applied the forcible and violent entry policy exclusion. They said it should reconsider 
the claim against the remaining terms of the policy. This includes emergency travel costs. 
They said the policy term about removal of certain items when a home is vacant for more 
than 48 hours had been fairly applied. And added if the claim is successful it should add 8% 
interest from the date the claim was declined up to the date it is settled.
As Lloyds is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the circumstances of the break in. I saw evidence the claim was reported to the 
police and a report was filed. It is not in question that there was a theft at Mr Hs property. 
Lloyds said it was not doubting the circumstances of the incident, but it had to consider the 
terms and conditions of his policy. 
Lloyds said it had rejected the claim in full as Mr Hs policy says it will only cover loss or 
damage when the property is vacant, lent or let following both forcible and violent entry and 
there was no evidence of this. 
I  looked at the terms of the policy. On page 17 it says;
We will pay for 
7 theft or attempted theft
We will  not pay for 
7(a) Loss or damage occurring whilst the Home or Holiday Home or any part is vacant, lent 
or let unless involving forcible and violent entry to or exit from the Home or Holiday home.
In situations like this our service usually takes the following approach. We typically interpret 
force as some form of action or energy being applied to something. So, in this case turning 
the door handle to get into the property can constitute force.
Where a thief has used a lock pick or some other instrument to unlock a door or window we 
consider this violent even if there is no physical damage to the property. This is because 
someone has used a level of force over and above what would usually be necessary.
Based on what the police have said, Im satisfied that there was a theft.The police report 
concludes that entry to Mr Hs property was gained using the keys that were stolen during 
the break in at his neighbours property. 
Mr Hs property was secured as it was locked up. He said the shutters were closed and the 
windows were barred. He said that his neighbour had a set of keys to his property, this was 
so it could be checked it every few days when Mr H was not there. The keys were held 
securely in his neighbours property, and they were not labelled to identify what they were 
for. He said his neighbour had checked on his property earlier on the day of the break in. 
I have considered whats fair and reasonable given all the circumstances in this case. I have 
taken into account both the policy wording and if it was fair to apply this specific policy 
wording based on the circumstances. 
As the evidence confirms there was a theft and as I think Mr H had taken reasonable steps 
to protect his holiday home whilst no one was staying there, I think it is reasonable to accept 
that the keys were held securely and were obtained by forcible and violent entry from his 
neighbours property.
Although there is no evidence of forcible and violent entry at Mr Hs property, I do not think it 
is fair for Lloyds to apply this exclusion in this case. I uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint 
and I require Lloyds to accept Mr Hs claim under the remaining terms of his policy. It should 
not apply the exclusion for forcible and violent entry.
Emergency travel claim
As part of his claim Mr H claimed for emergency travel for his wife to get to the holiday home 
to secure it as soon as he became aware of the theft. Lloyds said this part of his claim was 
declined because it had declined his claim and a claim for travel was dependant on there 
being a successful claim made.
As I think Lloyds unfairly declined Mr Hs claim this means its reason for rejection of the 
emergency travel claim is no longer valid. And I therefore uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint and Lloyds should now consider this part of his claim under the remaining terms of 
his policy.
Claim for jewellery and other specified items 
Lloyds said as the property was vacant for more than 48 hours, it would not cover some of 
the items in Mr Hs claim as these are excluded under the terms of the policy because the 
property was vacant.
I looked at the terms of the policy relating to this and on page seven and 16 it says;  
Jewellery, cameras, watches, money and credit cards to be removed if the property is 
vacated for more than 48 hours.
Mr H contested this exclusion and feels the property was not vacant. 
I saw the property has not been lived in since April 2022. I do accept since that time it has 
been checked on a regular basis, including the day of the theft, but this does not make it 
occupied. Mr Hs neighbour only checked on the property - he did not occupy it.
After careful consideration I think Lloyds fairly applied the policy term relating to the removal 
of jewellery and other specified items if a home is vacated for more than 48 hours, so I dont 
expect them to include any of these items when settling Mr Hs claim.  
I do not uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds bank General Insurance Company SA: 
To reconsider Mr Hs claim for theft against the remaining policy terms without applying 
the exclusion for forcible and violent entry to or exit from the home or holiday home.
To reconsider Mr Hs claim for emergency travel costs against the remaining terms of the 
policy as a successful claim has been made.
To pay Mr H 8% simple interest on any successful claim from the date the claim was 
declined up to the date the claim is settled.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman