DRN-3139147
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 25 January 2020, Mrs and Mr H took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to 
cover trips taken within Europe of up to 31 days. The policy was provided by Great Lakes. 
This cover started on 25 January 2020 and ran until 24 January 2021. The policy also 
provided cover for Mrs and Mr Hs pre-existing medical conditions. In total, they paid 
£201.52 for their insurance cover, which included Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). 
Because of the global pandemic, Mrs and Mr Hs planned holidays were cancelled and on 1 
April 2020, they contacted Great Lakes to request the cancellation of their policy. They also 
requested a refund of the premiums theyd paid as they said they hadnt been able to use 
their policy as theyd intended.
Mrs and Mr H said that Great Lakes didnt proactively respond to their request for a refund 
and policy cancellation following their contact on 1 April 2020. And, when they chased a 
response on 26 October 2020, Great Lakes offered them a refund of £40.30. It told Mrs and 
Mr H they werent entitled to a larger refund because it was more than 14 days since the 
purchase of their policy. 
Unhappy with this offer, Mrs and Mr H complained to Great Lakes. It investigated what had 
happened and agreed to backdate the refund it had offered to 1 April 2020. This resulted in 
Great Lakes increasing the refund it had previously offered to £100.76, which represented a 
50% refund of the premium Mrs and Mr H had paid. It sent them a final response to their 
complaint on 3 November 2020 and paid them the refund it had offered the same day.
Mrs and Mr H rejected the revised offer Great Lakes had made. They wanted a full refund of 
the premiums theyd paid. So, they referred their complaint to our service where an 
investigator looked into the matter. They found that the 50% refund offer made to Mrs and 
Mr H was fair and reasonable. And they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. But Mrs 
and Mr H disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint and, as no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Cover under Mrs and Mr Hs policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance documentation they received. Im satisfied Mrs and Mr 
H were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of 
the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of the 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of the premium 
will be available.
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of your policy.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs and Mr Hs cooling-off period ended on 8 February 2020. But the first 
contact with Great Lakes about this issue wasnt until 1 April 2020. So, Im satisfied the 
cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. 
Based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mrs and Mr H purchased, Im 
satisfied they arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums. Having said that, I do 
understand that their need for this policy changed due to circumstances beyond their control. 
So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart 
from industry rules and the terms and conditions of the policy because of the unanticipated, 
exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding Covid-19. 
As above, Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs 
and Mr Hs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under their policy commenced 
on 25 January 2020. 
Mrs and Mr H were insured from 25 January 2020, for travelling on any number of trips that 
they may have taken within Europe of up to 31 days, until they cancelled the policy. Because 
of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how 
many trips have been taken since the policy was incepted. There may have been many trips 
 or none. 
Regardless of the number of trips Mrs and Mr H may have taken, Great Lakes was covering 
the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force. The policy would have covered any 
holidays Mrs and Mr H needed to cancel because of any listed events insured under the 
policy including, for example, them falling ill with their declared pre-existing medical 
conditions.As our investigator has said, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer 
had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. So, regardless of what Mrs and Mr Hs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair 
for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. 
After Mrs and Mr H cancelled their insurance policy, due to the impact of Covid-19, Great 
Lakes wasnt bearing any risk under the insurance policy for upcoming holidays  their 
holidays were cancelled, and there wasnt any claim being made for cancellation. There also 
wasnt any risk of a holiday being cancelled for any other reason or any possibility of Mrs 
and Mr H making a claim whilst they were away on holiday. So Great Lakes no longer 
carried any risk of a successful claim being made. After the policy was cancelled, Great 
Lakes wasnt providing cancellation cover for any other holidays Mrs and Mr H might have 
had booked, or for any travelling that they might have done, whether abroad or in the UK. 
I understand that Mrs and Mr H have said they should receive a full refund of the premium. 
They think a 50% refund is unfair bearing in mind they cancelled their policy within 3 months 
of taking it out. But Great Lakes has said that, in its claims experience, it receives varying 
percentages of claims across different months of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
This means that the risk of a claim is not spread evenly across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated theres a material 
unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes 
hasnt treated Mrs and Mr H unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances. 
Based on the information and evidence supplied in support of this complaint, I think Great 
Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in offering to refund £100.76. As its already made 
payment of the refund it offered to Mrs and Mr H I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman