DRN-2861970
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given poor advice by Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning 
Limited (JR) when he transferred his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
Mr C first met with JR in mid May 2016 as he had concerns about his DB pension. At the 
time Mr C was 55, married and was earning around £40,000. He and his wife had savings of 
around £8,000, a repayment mortgage which was due to be repaid in 2030 and a car loan. 
They had no other pensions or investments and had limited experience in this area.
Over the next month, a fact find and risk profile were completed. The risk profile 
questionnaire recorded Mr Cs attitude to risk as balanced, however in the recommendation 
report later on in the process JR said given his lack of investment experience, low capacity 
for loss and some anomalies in his answers, they thought a risk profile of moderately 
cautious was more appropriate for him. And this risk profile was used for comparison 
purposes in their analysis.
Mr C also completed a lifestyle planning questionnaire which asked Mr C for his ideal 
lifestyle in retirement, his expenditure requirement and his overall financial position. It 
showed Mr C and his wife had net income of around £3,000 per month and regular 
outgoings of around £2,100. They assumed costs for regular holidays as £4,400 per year. Mr 
C wrote down his expected retirement age as 62/63.
JR then issued a Lifestyle Financial Plan (LFP) which included a cash flow model showing 
that Mr Cs could retire at 60 and live his desired lifestyle by remaining in BSPS. 
In a second meeting in mid-June 2016, JRs meeting notes record that Mr C and the adviser 
discussed the LFP and through discussion some more info was added. The adviser 
encouraged Mr and Mrs C to think about more things they would like to do in retirement and 
think about milestones. The adviser suggested to update the cash flow models taking into 
account the impact of BSPS possibly moving to the PPF as this was what Mr C was still 
concerned about. More information about the relevant figures was to be issued by the DB 
trustees a few weeks later so it was agreed to wait for this information. 
The LFP was updated reflecting the discussions with the adviser (mainly £4,700 on holidays 
per year and £35 per month each on eating out and hobbies). A milestone trip overseas 
which was planned for 2018 was also added which would cost £5,000. The BSPS cash 
models were updated accordingly.
In August 2016, JR issued a transfer analysis report (TVAS) which compared the benefits 
from the DB scheme -including if it moved into the PPF- with projected benefits in a personal 
pension. It showed that Mr Cs new plan needed annual returns of 16.21% to match his DB 
benefits at age 65 and 28.57% at age 60. If BSPS moved to the PPF, critical yields were still 
14.79% at age 65 and 25.56% at age 60.
JR recommended that Mr C should remain in the BSPS scheme. It said the disadvantages of 
a transfer outweighed the benefits. 
Mr C met again with JR at the end of August to discuss the TVAS. JRs notes say Mr C 
remained undecided whether he wanted to transfer. JR explained the pros and cons and 
their recommendation not to transfer. The note says Mr C seemed disappointed and said he 
would like flexibility. JR explained he didnt need to take more risk as his lifestyle could be 
supported either way. They explained the insistent client process and another meeting was 
arranged for two weeks later.
In mid September Mr C, his wife and the adviser met again to discuss the recommendations 
after they had the chance to read the report. The meeting notes say Mr C had hoped 
someone would agree with his reasons why he wanted to transfer. He wanted to enjoy more 
of his money sooner and wanted the flexibility and lump sum death benefits a transfer would 
bring. The notes suggest the pension transfer specialist joined the meeting explaining his 
recommendation not to transfer and recapped the TVAS. JR explained the insistent client 
process again. Mr C said he wanted to access around £30,000 initially to allow him and his 
wife to do a few more breaks, increase their social life, pay for their overseas trip and pay off 
the car loan. The rest should remain untouched until retirement.
JR recommended a transfer to a drawdown plan with a balanced risk portfolio. The tax-free 
lump sum would be put into a joint General investment Account (GIA) and from there Mr C 
could decide how much he wanted to withdraw and transfer remaining funds to Mr Cs ISA 
utilising any remaining ISA allowance. Mr C signed the transfer paperwork in that meeting, 
pending an insistent client letter. JR says this was because their insistent client process 
dictated Mr C had to be given another week before an insistent client letter could be 
considered during which he could think about whether he wanted to go ahead. JR says Mr C 
lived an hour away and didnt want to come back to sign the papers, so it was agreed 
everything would be signed but only sent off if an insistent client letter was received. JR 
received the insistent client letter from Mr C dated two days after the meeting and stamped 
as received by JR four days later. 
JR issued another suitability report in October 2016 setting out the recommendations in 
regard to the personal pension and how his funds would be invested which was in a 
balanced portfolio using a discretionary fund management firm (DFM). Mr Cs pension was 
transferred and invested as recommended in November 2016.
In 2020, Mr C complained through a representative that he was given unsuitable advice to 
transfer his BSPS benefits and he lost out financially as a result.
JR said their advice was to remain in BSPS and this advice was suitable. They say Mr C 
was informed about the risks of the transfer and what benefits he was giving up. He 
understood he was going against JRs recommendation and made an informed choice. JR 
says they followed a rigorous advice and insistent client process. The complaint was referred to this service. Mr Cs representative acknowledged that the 
advice from JR had been to remain in BSPS but complained about the advice process and 
that Mr C essentially wasnt treated fairly. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
recognised that JRs formal advice had been to remain in BSPS. However, she didnt think 
Mr C had been a truly insistent client and if JR had explored alternatives to meet Mr Cs 
objectives and clearly explained the financial consequences of transferring, he wouldnt have 
decided to proceed. The investigator also didnt think the recommendation to use a DFM 
was suitable for Mr C.
If Mr C had remained with the BSPS, the investigator thought he likely would have chosen 
the new BSPS2 scheme when the options were presented to members of the DB scheme in 
2017. So she asked JR to calculate compensation on this assumption.
JR disagreed and as no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint I took into account the relevant rules and regulations at the
time of the advice including:
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear 
and not misleading.
The provisions in COBS 9 and 19 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation in general and specifically in relation to a DB pension transfer. 
I also considered the guidance and good practice guide the regulator published in 2016 
around insistent clients which set out three key steps:
1.You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice 
must be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. 
If the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be 
additional requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or 
checked by a pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme 
with the defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is 
not suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3.It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator made it clear that the normal advice rules needed to be followed which 
included obtaining the necessary information about the client and their investment objectives, financial situation, and knowledge and experience so as to enable you to make a 
suitable personal recommendation (see COBS 9.2).
They raised concerns about insistent client cases where they had seen the following:
there was an inadequate assessment of the other options that would meet the clients 
objectives
excessive numbers of insistent clients resulted from the advisers advice not being 
sufficiently clear
the risks of the clients preferred course of action were not clearly explained
it was a 'papering exercise', for example the adviser had processed the case on an 
insistent client basis but this clearly did not reflect what had happened in practice
the adviser advised the client not to transfer out of the DB scheme (although the 
client insisted) but then recommended a product that was not suitable (with reference 
to the outcome and assessment of the information gathered about the member)
Both parties have provided detailed submissions and even though Ive summarised and 
focused on what I consider most relevant, I can assure both JR and Mr C that Ive reviewed 
and considered all their submissions. There is conflicting testimony between the parties what 
exactly was discussed during the meetings. Mr C says he was verbally advised and 
encouraged to transfer by JR which is adamantly disputed by them. They say they 
recommended against the transfer and Mr C made an informed choice to go against this 
recommendation. 
I wasnt present at the meetings and Im not able to know for certain what was discussed. So 
I considered the written evidence available from the time of the advice which includes the 
various reports, illustrations and meetings notes which Ive relied on as contemporaneous 
evidence. Where the evidence is unclear or uncertain Ive made my decision on what I think 
happened on the balance of probabilities based on the information I have.
I acknowledge that JR say the complaint has changed from one being about the advice 
being unsuitable to the processes being unfair and Mr C not being a true insistent client. 
However, as the investigator has already explained, the crux of the complaint essentially is 
that Mr C was not properly advised and whether an fair insistent client process was followed 
and whether Mr C was given sufficient and clear information to make an informed decision 
forms part of this. JR also had opportunity to comment on this aspect and has submitted 
detailed comments.
There is no dispute that JRs written recommendation to Mr C was to remain with BSPS. And 
given Mr Cs circumstances I think everyone is in agreement that it was in his best interest to 
remain in the DB scheme. So there is no issue with the recommendation not to transfer 
itself.
Consumers can decide to go against an advisers recommendation and JR was generally 
allowed to facilitate a transfer on an insistent client basis. However, I need to consider 
whether JR gave Mr C suitable advice overall which means whether his objectives and 
circumstances were properly considered and addressed and whether he was given clear 
and non-misleading information about his options and the risks of going against the 
recommendation, so that he could make an informed choice. Ive considered whether Mr C 
was treated fairly by JR. 
Even though Mr C and his wife say they cant remember writing the insistent client letter I 
have no reason to doubt that the handwritten letter Ive seen was written by them. They say 
some of the terminology used is unfamiliar and contain phrases they wouldnt normally use. 
However, I think this is explained by the fact that they were given a leaflet by JR which set out what issues needed to be addressed in an insistent client letter and which referred back 
to the transfer report and the terminology used there. 
The insistent client letter is dated two days after the meeting and the evidence suggests it 
was sent to JR, so on balance I think the letter was drafted by Mr and Mrs C and signed at 
home. Mr C says he received the recommendation report but didnt read it. However, the 
letter drafted at the time says they read the Pension Transfer Value Analysis report and 
listened to the advice given by JR and wanted to take an alternative course of action. They 
said they had talked it over extensively and were happy to go ahead with the transfer. 
They referred to sections in the report (primary considerations of staying with BSPS and 
considerations in favour of transferring). 
So I think on balance Mr C understood that JRs recommendation was not to transfer and 
that he was going against this recommendation. And I also think he likely read the report or 
at least parts of it. I think when he made his decision, he genuinely thought a transfer was a 
good idea.
However, Im concerned about some of the advice process here and that Mr C wasnt fully 
informed about the risks and consequences of his intended actions. Ill explain why.
The notes from the first meeting indicate that Mr C main concern was about BSPS going to 
the PPF and he was worried about the safety of his pension. I cant see that Mr R was asked 
about retirement objectives at his stage. The section on the fact find on objectives is crossed 
out.  And it looks like Mr C didnt have any preconceived retirement objectives when he 
initially met with JR. The notes suggest Mr C said he wanted to retire at 65 and only in 
conversation with the adviser changed this to 60. Mr C and his wife said they were content 
with their circumstances as they were, but would use retirement to spend more time with 
family and take up some hobbies rather than do more holidays. It was recorded Mr C had 
just come for information but liked the idea of retiring earlier and exploring the best option for 
him.
I think the meeting note in June shows that the adviser further encouraged them to think 
about money they wanted to spend on holidays, milestones etc. I dont think it is generally 
wrong for an adviser to discuss potential early retirement and explore with their client what 
he might want and could afford. However, I think its worth bearing in mind that these 
obviously werent pressing objectives for Mr and Mrs C and I think they would have been 
open to discussions about retiring later or spending less on non-essentials if this was in their 
best interest in the long-term. Possible objectives of taking lump sums before retirement or 
required death benefits werent discussed at all as far as I can see. The recommendation 
report also doesnt mention objectives.
Based on the meeting notes Mr C mentioned that he wanted flexibility for the first time in 
August when the recommendation report was discussed. He was concerned about the 
period of low water level obviously referring to the cash flow models in the report which 
showed income as water streams and income was lower between 60 and 67 than later in 
retirement. JR told Mr C he still had enough income and emergency funds, but Mr C was 
worried about what would happen if he decided to do something that wasnt foreseeable or 
he needed or wanted to replace his car during this time.
The note says JR discussed the TVAS, pro and cons and their recommendation not to 
transfer again, but Mr C was disappointed by this as he wanted flexibility. Mr C was told he 
didnt need to decide straight away and was informed about the insistent client process.
I think its concerning that JR gave Mr C their recommendation not to transfer and in the 
same meeting already explained how he could proceed against this. The notes suggest he was undecided, so in my view there was no need at this stage to give him information and a 
guide on what he needed to do if he wanted to proceed with an action that wasnt in his best 
interest. I think this would have likely given the impression that whilst the recommendation 
was to remain in BSPS, transferring was simply another choice and in fact the insistent client 
sheet supports this by saying:
The key point is that just because we recommend a particular course of action for one of 
your pensions or investments -that doesnt automatically make all other routes wrong. 
Ultimately, the decision as to what to do with your money is entirely up to you.
Its also worth noting at this point that the adviser put a task on this note to prepare the file 
with transfer paperwork for the next meeting. So it seems the adviser was already expecting 
Mr C wanting to go ahead and that the paperwork would be completed at the next meeting. 
This in my view somewhat contradicts JRs testimony that the paperwork was only 
completed in the September meeting because Mr C didnt want to come back again after the 
insistent client letter. 
It seems Mr C still hadnt fully decided what to do when he met with the adviser two weeks 
later. The meeting note says Mr C wanted someone to agree with him that his reasons for 
transferring (flexibility to spend more money sooner in retirement and lump sum death 
benefits) were right. Through discussion Mrs C said she agreed with her husbands 
reasoning. Mr C asked more questions about the ongoing adviser service and he was 
concerned about overspending. After JR explained their service the notes say he was 
comforted by the fact they would review his pensions regularly. He and his wife then decided 
to transfer.
In the same meeting investment recommendations were given and paperwork was 
completed. This is the first time Mr C mentioned that he and Mrs C wanted to take a lump 
sum of around £30,000 immediately. 
My biggest concern here is that I cant see JR properly discussed and challenged Mr Cs 
wish for flexibility and accessing more cash in earlier years. None of this was identified as an 
objective or discussed before the recommendation report was issued, so it wasnt 
considered there. Given that this was seemingly the key reason why Mr C wanted to transfer 
and JR had previously said Mr C had sufficient income and emergency funds if he stayed in 
BSPS, they should have done more to address this once Mr C had decided to transfer 
against their recommendation. 
I havent seen evidence that Mr C was shown how his cash flow would be impacted by 
taking out a lump sum immediately or taking out higher income in earlier years. I also cant 
see that JR challenged whether Mr and Mrs C needed to pay off their car loan now or 
needed to access their pension immediately to pay for their planned holiday in two years 
time. Mr and Mrs C had £800-900 disposable income per month and there was no urgent 
need to pay off their loan. They also had enough savings to pay for their holidays and leave 
them with emergency funds which they could have further bolstered with their disposable 
income until retirement. I havent seen persuasive evidence that this was discussed with Mr 
C or what other unforeseen expenditure he was thinking of.
Mr C was making a decision to transfer which wasnt in his best interest and he had no need 
to take risks with his pension. Everything he wanted to afford he could achieve by staying in 
BSPS. And based on the evidence provided the reasons for making this decision were only 
really mentioned after the recommendation was given. So JR should have adapted their 
advice accordingly specifically addressing Mr Cs intended action and ensuring he properly 
understood how he could meet all his objectives by staying in BSPS, that based on what he 
had told JR he had no need for further flexibility and give strong risk warnings about the transfer and what this flexibility would cost him in benefits.
I appreciate the notes say the adviser gave a recap on the TVAS and explained why the 
recommendation was given not to transfer. As I said previously I dont know in how much 
detail this was done and what exactly was reiterated. JR said this meeting typically would 
have been between 45-60min. Given that in the same meeting the decision to transfer was 
made, ongoing services were explained, paperwork was completed and a full investment 
recommendation was given, in my view this could have likely only been fairly brief. In any 
event, based on the evidence in front of me, Im not persuaded that enough was done to 
address Mr Cs apparent perception BSPS couldnt provide him with sufficient income and 
funds he needed in earlier years of retirement after he decided to transfer for this reason.
JR also needed to ensure Mr C fully understood the risks and possible consequences of the 
intended transfer. And Im not persuaded strong and clear enough risks warnings were 
given. This is not to say JR didnt mention the risks of a transfer. The recommendation report 
sets out the key risks of a transfer right at the start. It then prominently gives an overview of 
considerations in favour of transferring and against transferring. 
Mr C also referred to some of these factors in his insistent client letter. From what Ive seen 
Mr C was (at least) aware he was giving up a guaranteed income for life, that there would be 
no costs involved in the DB scheme and that a transfer would expose him to withdrawal and 
investment risk. He also specifically mentioned his worry of running out of money in the 
September meeting, so I think he was aware that this was a possibility.
However, whilst he might have understood there were some risks and that his future benefits 
wouldnt be guaranteed, Im not convinced that Mr C was given clear enough information to 
fully understand what he was giving up by transferring. The recommendation report said with 
regards to the critical yield: 
Based on the estimated annual return the critical yield figures are not expected to be met 
and therefore the critical yield figures above provide a strong indication that the CETV does 
not present an attractive option in actuarial terms.
Under primary personal considerations against transferring it said:
The critical yield figure of 16.21% indicates that in pure actuarial/monetary terms (based on 
standardised reasonable assumptions), it would not be advantageous to transfer out of the 
British Steel pension scheme (see report for full details). If we were to look at these figures in 
isolation, we would strongly recommend remaining within the British Steel scheme.
I dont think this made it clear enough to a lay person and particularly to someone with no 
real investment experience like Mr C that it effectively guaranteed that he would be 
significantly worse off in retirement if he transferred. 
When Mr C mentioned that he was undecided after the meeting in August and that he 
wanted flexibility, the adviser told him that he didnt need to decide straight away. He also 
said he didnt need to take risks as his lifetime worked either way. I assume the adviser 
referred to the cash flow analysis which compared income streams and cash reserves if he 
took benefits at 60 from BSPS (and PPF) or if he transferred and which gave him enough 
money to do what he wanted. Looking at the report and the notes I feel the advice was 
presented as a pro and cons list. I think Mr C would have understood there were risks of 
transferring and benefits of staying in BSPS, but overall both scenarios would allow him to 
retire early and give him his required income. Mr C obviously saw the concept of flexibility as 
something worth taking an element of risk for. However, I dont think he would have fully 
understood from the information he was given that in order to try and ensure funds would last over his lifetime and leave his wife with death benefits to provide her with income until 
her death (if he predeceased her), income withdrawals would have to be substantially lower 
than in BSPS. And lump sum withdrawals early on would impact this even more.
In short, JR should have told Mr C in clear and simple terms that he was choosing flexibility 
he didnt really need in return for significantly lower benefits in retirement in addition to the 
risks of running out of funds or not leaving behind enough death benefits for his wife. I dont 
think the significant disadvantages in monetary terms were sufficiently discussed based on 
the information I have seen.
I appreciate JRs report contained a lot of information. However, the reasons for their 
recommendation not to transfer were vague in my view. It just said the disadvantages 
outweighed the advantages. I feel after JR had told him he shouldnt transfer it was left to Mr 
C to weigh up the advantages and disadvantages for himself. And when he came to the 
conclusion he wanted flexibility, something that wasnt mentioned before, JR in my view 
failed to robustly challenge this and discuss alternatives. Instead they too quickly pointed 
towards the insistent client process which indicated acting against the recommendation was 
not a problem. They should have clearly explained to Mr C that a transfer wasnt in his best 
interest and why.
If they had done so, on balance I think Mr C wouldnt have transferred his pension. I 
appreciate that he was concerned about his DB pension and the possible move to the PPF. 
And lots of his colleagues at the time would have been transferring out of the scheme. So its 
possible Mr C was leaning towards a transfer when he approached JR. This is supported by 
the meeting note in September when he said he thought transferring was the best option 
from the start.
However, it was JRs obligation to give him an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interest. This obligation didnt stop after the recommendation was given not to 
transfer. When it was clear Mr C was considering going ahead with the transfer anyway, JR 
needed to make sure he fully understood the risks of what he was doing and what he was 
giving up, not in the abstract but what this would mean personally for him. And as explained 
above I dont think they did enough here.
From what Ive seen JR explained to Mr C in the report and in the meetings that going into 
the PPF shouldnt be a concern and if he retired early he might even be better off than in 
BSPS. And based on his insistent client letter and the meeting notes I dont think the fear of 
going into the PPF was Mr Cs reason to transfer anymore. 
I dont agree with JR that Mr C would have transferred regardless of the advice provided. 
The notes indicate he was looking for advice and he was clearly torn whether he should 
transfer. 
He obviously was attracted to the idea of flexibility but appreciated there were certain risks. 
So even though he eventually decided to go against the recommendation I think he would 
have listened to stronger and clearer warnings and would have been open to discussions of 
alternatives. I remind JR of my earlier observations that early retirement and spending more 
on holidays, hobbies etc werent Mr Cs original plans but were ideas introduced by the 
adviser. And Mr C was concerned about running out of money. So I think if JR had clearly 
told him in no uncertain terms this wasnt in his best interest, he didnt have the required 
capacity for loss and he would be financially worse off as well as the unneeded flexibility he 
gained was not worth giving up higher benefits for, I think he would have listened. 
JR pointed to a phone note in early August where Mr C called in to ask whether the transfer 
from BSPS was complete. They say this shows he was determined to transfer. As I said above I think at this stage the recommendation had not been given and its possible he was 
leaning towards a transfer. However, I think this note much more suggests that Mr C didnt 
understand the advice process or that JR had not explained clearly what would happen next. 
Overall, I think a properly reasoned recommendation more likely than not would have 
persuaded him to follow their advice not to transfer.
There were disputes about whether the investment recommendation was suitable and in line 
with Mr Cs attitude to risk as well as whether the charges were clear. However, given that 
Im upholding for reasons set out above, there is no reason for me to comment on this 
further.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22
December 2017. If Mr C had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to 
move to the PPF or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. 
Mr Cs representatives said BSPS2 benefits should have been considered when giving the 
recommendation. However, at the time the advice was given in 2016 Mr C hadnt been given 
the option of BSPS2 yet. The advice for JR to give at the time was whether to stay in BSPS 
or transfer out and their advice was not to transfer in any event. 
However, as set out above I think if JR had given properly reasoned advice and acted in Mr 
Cs best interest, Mr C would have remained in BSPS. He might have contacted JR or 
another adviser again when the Time to Choose Exercise began. However, he also might 
not have done.
So I carefully considered what Mr C likely would have done about a year later had he been
given the choice of either the PPF or BSPS2 and placed into an informed position regarding
the features, risks and benefits of both options. 
On balance I think Mr C wouldve likely opted for the PPF. I appreciate Mr Cs 
representatives dont agree and Ive considered their reasons carefully, but I still think on 
balance this is what he would have chosen.
I agree that early retirement wasnt something Mr C had maybe thought about or had 
planned to do when he sought advice from JR. However, it was discussed and after meeting 
with JR I think he had realised this was an option and he liked the idea of retiring at 60. So 
even if he had remained in BSPS, I think he would have seriously considered early 
retirement when he was given the choice between BSPS2 and PPF in 2017 and he was 
reasonably close to a possible retirement age of 60. Even if he continued to work for a 
couple more years, say to 62 or 63, the PPF benefits would have likely provided better 
higher income and TFC than BSPS2.
BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Cs initial entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of
his benefits would have had potentially higher increases in BSPS2. However, early
retirement factors in the PPF were lower and commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable under the PPF. So overall, its likely Mr Cs income
and tax-free cash entitlement would have been higher in the PPF.Under BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Cs pension at the date of
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the
spouses pension would likely be lower in the PPF.  However, I think on balance his own 
benefits and higher tax-free cash which he and his wife could benefit from earlier in 
retirement would have been more important to him.
Mr Cs representatives say early retirement from the PPF might not have been affordable for 
him. They say JR didnt provide Mr C with projected retirement benefits from the PPF at age 
60. However, this isnt true. The TVAS report included different cash flow scenarios and 
scenario 2 showed Mr and Mrs Cs financial position if DB benefits were taken at age 60 
from the PPF. Projected benefits were £14,716 per year plus a TFC sum of £98,108. Based 
on the models Im satisfied the couple could have lived comfortably if benefits were taken 
that way. 
So I think the PPF would have been the more attractive option to Mr C in 2017. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So
calculations should be made on this assumption.
JR must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
If Mr C had remained in BSPS, I dont think he would have accessed his DB benefits in 2016 
to withdraw lump sums like he did after the transfer. As explained above, I dont think Mr C 
really needed additional funds to pay off his car loan or pay for holidays. 
Mr C took redundancy in early 2020 and started taking regular withdrawals to replace salary 
in November 2020 at age 60. His representatives say he only did so at the encouragement 
of the adviser and he could have found other work or explored the option to apply for welfare 
benefits to delay accessing his DB pension. However, I dont agree this is something that Mr 
C would have likely wanted to do. As I said before Mr C was interested in early retirement 
since this was discussed and explored with JR in 2016. And the pension review meeting 
notes in January 2019 state under Employment & Work Plans:
Although the cashflow models suggest that ceasing work at the end of this year should be 
feasible, you have asked us to assume that you both work until [Mr C] is 60 in November 
2020.
So I think based on the evidence available in 2019 Mr C was still planning to retire at 60. He 
took redundancy in the same year he turned 60 and I think its likely he made the decision to 
stop working then and not look for a new job.
So I think he would have accessed his PPF benefits at the same time. JR should therefore 
use the assumed retirement age of 60 for their calculations.JR may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition JR should pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date
JR receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JR
to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to
be complete by late summer 2022.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period)
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the
buy-out.
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr C has retired early and I think he would have had done the same if he had gone into the 
PPF. Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the 
PPF, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) 
that entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr C. As such, I think its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could 
be made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial planning Limited to undertake a 
redress calculation on the current known basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future 
buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both 
parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
If Mr C accepts this decision, hell be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set out 
above. Its important that Mr C is aware that, once any final decision has been issued, if 
accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount 
in full as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Joslin 
Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle 
Financial Planning Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman