DRN-2605937
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted her account and added a fraud 
marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Miss R says she found out on 27 January 2020 that her account had been locked and she 
couldnt take out money. She contacted Barclays and was asked for details of her account 
credits. She was told her account would be closed. She discovered the marker had been 
registered and after complaining this was removed and her account was reinstated. 
Barclays said it made a mistake by not contacting Miss R before it added the marker and 
had decided to close her account. It recognised the impact this had on her and offered to 
pay £500 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do more than it had offered to. She said 
that there was a high bar for adding a marker at CIFAS. Barclays needed to investigate a 
report of fraudulent money being paid into her account. But it had acted prematurely in 
adding the marker. This had caused Miss R trouble and upset, and this was reflected in the 
payment offered.
Miss R didnt agree. This had a significant impact on her mental health, and we hadnt taken 
account of the distress that had been caused to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Barclays eventually discussed the specifics of the credits with Miss R that had 
caused concern. And those were relating to the sale of a car. It had received a report that   
Miss R had obtained these funds fraudulently. And this led to a review of her account.
I would expect Barclays to take such a matter seriously and as here to undertake a review. It 
has accepted that it didnt take into account Miss Rs evidence about what happened. And 
that when it did do so it decided that it had a mistake. In order for it to add a CIFAS maker Id 
have expected there to be reasonable grounds to think that a fraud or financial crime had 
been carried out or attempted by Miss R and that the evidence would support this being 
reported to the authorities.
Miss R has given a detailed account of the impact of what happened, and I want to ensure I 
assess this. She says she found out on 27 January 2020 that her account was locked. She 
went to a branch and was asked for details about all the credits and says she was made to 
feel like she had committed fraud. She spoke to the fraud team saying she needed at least 
some of the nearly £2,500 in her account. She went back to a branch again to go through 
her statement entry details. Miss R says she had also applied for a savings account at a 
different financial business at that time. And shes shown that this application was turned 
down and explains that her current account there was locked too. She managed to take out 
her money from that account before that happened. 
Miss R found out that a CIFAS marker had been applied by Barclays on 4 February 2020 
when she made a subject access request. She complained to Barclays and it says she was 
able to access her money on 21 February 2020. Barclays records that she spoke to a 
member of staff on 3 March 2020 who told her that her account would also be reinstated, 
and the marker removed. Miss R has explained the distress all this has caused her and that 
it added to her mental health issues and that she felt in a vulnerable position.
I dont doubt that this was an upsetting time especially as Miss R explains that she had taken 
the information to support the payments into a branch already and was in a position to 
explain her side of things. She has indicated she would accept compensation of £1,500. My 
role here is to decide what is reasonable.
We dont make punitive awards. And here there is no evidence of a specific financial loss to 
Miss R. I know that shes already looked at the guidance we publish about trouble and upset, 
and Ill take that into account. But I need to apply my own judgement to all the circumstances 
here. Ive noted the time period over which this happened and by when her account had 
been reinstated. And her visits to the branch and calls and the wider impact on her. 
Having done so I know she is going to be very disappointed when I say that I think Barclays 
has made a sufficient offer of compensation for all these aspects. And so, I wont be asking it 
to do anything further. If Miss R doesnt accept my decision she remains free to pursue this 
in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay Miss R a total of £500 to settle the complaint and 
I think that this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should pay Miss R a total of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman