DRN-3685211
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc has settled a claim they
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs H were abroad on holiday. They were due to return to the UK on
30 March 2020. However, the government of the country they were staying in imposed a
national lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Additionally, on 23 March 2020, the
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK nationals abroad to
return to the UK.
So Mr and Mrs H arranged to cut short their holiday and flew back to the UK. They made a
claim on their travel insurance policy for the unused parts of their curtailed trip and the
additional travel expenses theyd incurred in returning to the UK.
Ultimately, AXA accepted and partly settled the claim. It considered the claim under the
curtailment terms found in section Q of the policy  Travel Disruption. This attracted a £5000
limit per person. So AXA paid Mr and Mrs H a total of £10,000 for their claim  in line with
the policy limit.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the settlement theyd been paid. Thats because it didnt
include the money theyd paid out to return to the UK. They felt that these costs fell within
the scope of cover provided by policy section A  Cancellation or Curtailment. This section
also attracted a policy limit of £5000 per person. Mr and Mrs H considered the policy stated
that AXA would pay for additional travel costs on top of the £5000 per person limit. So they
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She looked at
Section A and how AXA had said it would settle cancellation or curtailment claims. She
thought that the policy wording was clear that AXA would only pay up to £5000 per person in
total for curtailment claims.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and Ive summarised their response. They felt that the policy term
was ambiguous and should be interpreted in their favour. They felt the use of the words
together with set out a separate category of loss for expenses which naturally flow from the
insured event. They wanted their complaint to be considered on the basis of a proper
application of the contra proferentum rule.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought AXA had settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of their policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether AXA treated
them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of AXAs
contract with AXA. While Mr and Mrs H and our investigator focused on the wording of
section A  cancellation or curtailment  AXA assessed and settled the claim under section
Q  Travel Disruption. So Ive turned to consider whether I think it paid the claim in line with
the cover provided by section Q. Page 85 sets out the relevant part of section Q  While You
are at your Destination. This says:
We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation (including excursions
up to £250) and other Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from any other source
together with any reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars)
and accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of Your pre booked travel
and accommodation (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed and breakfast, self
catering or room only) if You have to;
Curtail Your Trip with prior authorisation of AXA Assistance as a result of the Travel Advice
Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory authority in the
country You are in recommending evacuation from the country or specific area You have
travelled to providing the advice came into force after You left Your Home Area to
commence the Trip.
In my view, AXA has clearly set out that it will pay up to £5000 per person for their unused
travel, accommodation, and other pre-paid charges together with their reasonable additional
travel and accommodation costs. Mr and Mrs H consider that the phrase together with
reasonable additional travel costs is a separate clause which is intended to be read
separately to the unused costs. I dont agree. I think the separation of the pre-paid charges
from additional charges is intended to demonstrate that AXA will only cover irrecoverable
pre-paid, unused costs whereas additional costs are, by their nature, used and therefore, not
subject to such a qualification. And in my view, the clause is set out as one complete clause,
which makes clear that the total available curtailment cover is £5000 per person and isnt
intended to provide additional cover.
I dont think the way the clause is written is ambiguous or would be widely interpreted as
providing cover over and above the policy limit per person. I find that the clause as a whole
makes clear that AXA will pay up to £5000 in total for any of the costs associated with the
curtailment of a trip.
Mr and Mrs H cut short their trip because the government of their destination imposed
lockdown and because the FCDO advised UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. On that
basis then, it seems to me that it was fair for AXA to assess this claim under this section of
the policy. And it also seems to me that AXA settled the claim in line with the applicable
policy limits.
For completeness though and in fairness to Mr and Mrs H, Ive also considered whether
assessment under section A wouldve been more beneficial to them. This also covers
curtailment due to a government order to evacuate a policyholders destination. The policy
says AXA will pay:
We will pay You up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section K-Ski pack
and Section Q -Travel disruption cover) for any irrecoverable unused travel and
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges
(including green fees of up to £75 per day, up to a maximum of £300) which You have paid
or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred.
Whats clear then is that both sections A and Q provide the same total cover for curtailment.And I also dont find this clause to be ambiguous for the same reasons Ive set out above. I
think any separation in the term is purely intended to make pre-paid and contracted costs
distinct to additional costs a policyholder might incur. I dont think I could reasonably interpret
this term to mean that in addition to unused costs of up to £5000, AXA will also pay
additional travel costs on top of this amount. And therefore, I dont find that the term ought to
be interpreted in Mr and Mrs Hs favour.
Id add though that even if I had thought this term wasnt as worded as well as it couldve
been, Id still think AXA had made the curtailment limits clear overall. I say that first because
page 12 of the policy sets out a table called Key Things You Need to Know. This includes
some key benefits and at the top of the table, key travel insurance policy benefits are listed.
This says:
Cancellation or curtailment cover (up to £5,000).
The Insurance Product Insurance Document sets out the key features, benefits and
exclusions which apply to the policy in an at-a-glance summary of cover. On page one,
under What is Insured?, the document says:
Cancellation or curtailment charges and early return
We will pay you up to £5000 per person for your unused and irrecoverable costs if you have 
to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of one of a number of covered scenarios.
So taking the totality of the information Mr and Mrs H were given about the curtailment
cover together, I think AXA made it sufficiently clear that a limit of £5000 per person would 
apply. That means that even if AXA had assessed the claim under this section (and Id add 
that the policy makes clear that a claim for the same expenses cant be made on both 
sections A and Q), Id still have found that it had settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the applicable policy limits.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position, as I appreciate theyve been left
out of pocket, I dont plan to direct AXA to pay them anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider by 18 August 2022.
AXA accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs H didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any additional comments or information for 
me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman