DRN-2015101
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited through her representative. She isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs R had a leak coming from her radiator and so she made a claim under her home 
emergency insurance policy. Aviva sent its engineer who repaired the leak. He had to drain 
down the whole heating system in order to repair the radiator valve.
After the engineer had undertaken the repair and left Mrs Rs property she contacted Aviva 
and complained. This was because she had an inhibitor in the central heating system which 
hadnt been replaced. So Mrs R thought that the repair had left her in a worse position than 
she should have been. Aviva looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. It 
explained that its engineer had to drain the system in order to fix the problem. And that he 
wouldnt have put an inhibitor in the system as that would be classed as maintenance as 
opposed to being part of the emergency repair. Aviva also said that the engineer wasnt 
aware that the system had an inhibitor in it in any event. As Mrs R remained unhappy she 
complained to this service.
Our investigators looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. They thought that 
Aviva had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions in dealing with 
Mrs Rs claim. It had simply undertaken an emergency repair following a call out from Mrs R 
and wasnt obliged to replace the inhibitor as part of the emergency repair.
As Mrs R didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mrs R has found herself I  
agree with our investigator that Aviva hasnt acted unfairly. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Rs position and how frustrating she has found this as she had an 
inhibitor in her central heating system as a preventative measure. She paid for the inhibitor 
in order to help the smooth running of her system and to help prevent corrosion. I agree that 
it wouldve been helpful to have discussed the fact that she had an inhibitor in her system 
before the emergency repair was undertaken. But I think both sides couldve looked to 
ensure this was discussed/checked so I dont think it would be fair to hold Aviva completely 
at fault for this. 
However, the policy is a home emergency policy and that is what Aviva undertook  an 
emergency repair following a leak. Ive seen the call out notes that describe the water leak 
from the radiator and I dont think that Mrs R wouldve chosen to leave the leak had she 
been aware that the inhibitor wouldnt have been replaced. Indeed, I wouldve expected her 
to discuss this with the engineer when he attended if it was important to her. But I feel that 
she was more concerned, understandably, with the leak at that point in time. 
I know Mrs R has said that she had a repair to a different radiator undertaken previously 
when the whole system wasnt drained down, so she questions why it was necessary this 
time to drain the system. But I havent been provided with any details about this repair and 
Aviva has provided evidence from an expert explaining that it was necessary to drain the 
system in order to repair the radiator valve. And Im sure Avivas engineer wouldnt have fully 
drained the system and restored it if it wasnt necessary. I say this as I dont think the 
engineer wouldve made the job far more labour intensive, time consuming and more 
expensive than it needed to be. 
So, although I can understand Mrs Rs position and why she has complained I cant say 
Aviva has acted unfairly or outside the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman