DRN-3890461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed their account and 
misinformed them about which ones were being closed. 
Mr and Mrs T says this caused them substantive distress and inconvenience, and financial 
loss for which they want compensation.  
What happened
This decision only deals with Mr and Mr Ts joint account. Mr T has a separate complaint at 
this service for accounts in his sole name. As they are complaining about the joint account, I 
must treat this separately as Mrs T is not an eligible complainant for Mr Ts sole accounts. 
As the loss being complained about relates to accounts held in Mr Ts name, the other 
complaint, under a separate reference number, will deal with that. So, to be clear, this 
decision only deals with whether Barclays closed Mr and Mrs Ts account fairly. 
In January 2021, Barclays sent a letter to Mr and Mrs T separately and explained it had 
taken the decision to close their account(s) and facilities on 22/3/2021. Unsure about which 
account Barclays were referring to Mr T called it on several occasion to find out. 
After several attempts to get information about this, Mr T was told it was only his joint 
account, held with Mrs T, that was being closed. This was incorrect. Mr T had told Barclays 
he suspected their joint account was being closed as it wasnt receiving regular payments 
into it as per the current account conditions. 
Unhappy with Barclays actions Mr and Mrs T complained. Barclays didnt uphold their 
complaint, so they referred it to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. In relation to the joint account 
they said Barclays had acted fairly, and in line with the terms of the account, when closing it. 
Barclays had correctly told Mr T it was closing the joint account. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our Investigator. So their complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the accounts, which Barclays and Mr and Mrs T had to comply 
with, say it could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. I note Mr and Mrs T would like to know why 
Barclays took this decision. But neither Barclays, nor I, are under any obligation, that Im 
aware of, to do so. 
As I said above, Barclays had written to Mr and Mrs T to explain its actions in January 2021. 
And in doing so signposted them to the relevant part of its terms and conditions it was 
exercising this action under  section 11 of its agreement for personal customers. Barclays 
staff member correctly told Mr and Mrs T on the phone this account was being closed. That 
means the notice was properly given to them.  
Mr and Mrs T havent suffered any loss by their joint account closing. Mr T has alluded to it 
not being used that much. But, even if there was any loss suffered on their part related to the 
joint account being closed, Barclays acted fairly when closing it. So, I dont need to consider 
this point.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman