DRN-3422389
The complaint
Mr P complains about Wirex Limiteds actions when reviewing and subsequently closing his
account.
What happened
Mr P held an account with Wirex which, amongst other things, allowed him to top up money
onto a pre-paid debit card. In September 2020, Mr Ps account flagged for review and Wirex
requested some additional information from Mr P. In December 2020, Wirex carried out a
further review and Mr Ps account was limited while the review took place. That means from
December 2020, Mr P didnt have access to his money.
In April 2021, Wirex made the decision to end their banking relationship with Mr P. They
permanently limited the account and informed Mr P that the balances held in his GBP, EUR
and USD accounts could be returned to him  but hed need to contact another company,
who Ill refer to as C, for the balance from his pre-paid card to be refunded.
Mr P brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Wirexs decision to
review the account was reasonable  but she did think they could have finalised the review
sooner. So, she thought theyd caused unnecessary delays. Wirex offered to add 8% simple
interest to the money they returned to Mr P relating to the money held in his GBP, EUR and
USD accounts and £50 compensation which our investigator thought was fair. However, she
also asked Wirex to refund Mr P the money which was being held by C. She explained there
was no reasonable rationale as to why Mr P was without this money.
Wirex refunded Mr P a total of £670.20 which Mr P received around 8 February 2022. This
total amount included the 8% interest on the accounts balance, £50 compensation and the
money from Mr Ps pre-paid card which was being held by C.
Mr P remained unhappy. He didnt think £50 compensation for Wirex withholding his money
for over a year was fair. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was
passed to me to review.
In March 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
The account review and closure
Wirex are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts 
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened,
Im satisfied Wirex was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they
reviewed Mr Ps account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
However, in order for me to be satisfied that Wirexs actions were appropriate in the
circumstances, Id need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions
they took during the review. Based on the information Ive received, I think Wirex could have
initiated the review and completer it sooner than they did. Because of that, I think Mr P
should be compensated for the unnecessary delays caused.
Following their review, Wirex decided to end their relationship with Mr P. Banks sometimes
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons,
and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer  only to meet the account closure
terms and conditions. Just the same as if Mr P decided to stop banking with Wirex, he
wouldnt have to explain why. Wirex can only close accounts in certain circumstances and in
line with the terms and conditions of the account. Wirex have relied on the terms and
conditions when closing Mr Ps account  however I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy
me that they were able to close it without notice. Based on the information which has been
shared with our service, I can only reasonably agree that the full two months notice should
have been given.
Mr Ps money
When Wirex made the decision to close Mr Ps account, Im pleased to see they offered to
transfer the nominal balances left in his GBP, EUR and USD accounts. However, Wirex
referred Mr P to C to regain access to the money held on the pre-paid card. C provided debit
cards for Wirex customers to use  the relationship was set up between Wirex and C
directly, but that relationship broke down during the time C held on to Mr Ps funds.
I acknowledge that Wirex didnt have Mr Ps money directly  but their association company
did, and its not Mr Ps fault that Wirexs relationship with C ended around March 2021. Mr P
provided evidence to our service to show that he attempted to contact to C to access his
money and didnt receive a response. Mr P only received access to his money held by C in
February 2022  around 14 months after it was initially blocked  and Im aware this refund
came from Wirex directly following the recommendation of our investigator. Because of that,
I find that Wirex could have refunded Mr P in April 2021 when they refunded him the
balances from his currency accounts  and even sooner than this had they not caused
delays with the review. Wirex could have then pursued the money from C directly to avoid
Mr P being without his money. To recognise the loss of use of the funds held by C, Im
minded to ask Wirex to pay Mr P 8% simple interest on the amount which was held by C.
Overall, having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, I also think a
compensation figure of £250 in total is more appropriate to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused to Mr P by not having access to his money for a period of around 14
months, and the prolonged delays caused.
So, I thought Wirex should:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount C withheld from Mr P. 
Pay Mr P a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr P responded to my complaint and was happy with the recommendations. Wirex 
responded and had nothing further to add and was happy to proceed with the 
recommendations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties are satisfied with the recommendations from my provisional decision, and neither has presented further arguments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings.
Putting things right
In summary, I dont think Mr P should have been left without access to his money and 
therefore I think Wirex could have handled things directly. Because of that, I think they 
should pay Mr P interest on the amount which was withheld from him  and a total of £250 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, Wirex Limited should do the following:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount C withheld from Mr P. They should 
calculate this from the date they could have reasonably released the money to Mr P 
(this date should be the same as the date they calculated the interest from on the 
currency refunds to Mr P) and up until the date Mr P did receive the money  8 
February 2022.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirex Limited to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Wirex should give Mr P a certificate showing how much 
tax is taken off if Mr P asks for one.
Pay Mr P a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im aware Wirex have already made a payment of £50 to Mr P, so they are only 
required to pay the difference of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman