DRN-1671101
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a 
Principles store card that was taken out in April 1996. The policy included cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Ms H disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Ms Hs card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet instore. The PPI 
was then added on to the store card account. Ms H says she was made to feel she had 
to take it to get the card, that it wasnt properly explained to her and there was no 
discussion about whether she needed it. 
Weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around this 
time. Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of 
the processes that were generally used. We know, for example, that consumers were 
asked to fill out a card account application which was part of a wider leaflet-based form. 
The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant was given to 
complete.
Im further helped by having to hand the actual form and credit agreement Ms H filled out 
when she took out her card. Its not the best of copies but I can nevertheless see theres a 
section on the application leaflet about the PPI where Ms H was invited to tick a box if she 
wanted to go ahead with PPI cover. There was an indication that Ms H would be covered 
for accident, sickness and unemployment and that further details about the card were set 
out on the customer copy of the application form she was completing. 
So looking at what happened, I think Ms H knew or ought to have known that shed 
agreed to take out PPI at the time she was applying for her store card. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Ms H to decide for herself whether she wanted the PPI 
cover. I acknowledge it perhaps could have set out the information about the PPI in a better 
way, but overall, I think Ms H probably had access to enough information to allow her to 
make an informed decision.
Ms H told us she had some sickness protection already with her job  being 6 months at full 
pay followed by 6 months at half pay - implying she didnt need any PPI. I understand why 
shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits Ms H says she enjoyed. 
But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. She was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The 
cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave 
more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost 
her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month 
until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits 
would have been in addition to any other means Ms H had in place at the time, such as the 
savings shes told us about. 
Ive also noticed that Ms H told us about a medical condition shed had for some years. 
Making a claim on PPI when theres a history of a previous medical condition can with 
certain policies sometimes lead to a claim being rejected. But I dont think thats an issue 
here as Ms H hadnt needed to take time off work because of it. So I dont think Ms H would 
have changed her mind about buying the PPI even if shed had better or clearer information 
about the cover. 
So overall, I can see Ms H did agree to the policy and its likely that she had to hand the 
basic information about the policy shed need to know when deciding to take it out.  
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Ms H this 
news. Ive also considered the point that Ms H has made in response to our adjudicators 
view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman