DRN-2565526
The complaint
Miss B complains that Sesame Limited misled her about the extent of a survey carried out by 
her lender when purchasing a property. 
What happened
Miss B was buying her first home. In early 2020 she took mortgage advice from Sesame. 
The mortgage it recommended included a free valuation from the lender. Miss B says she 
asked how in depth the valuation would be as she had some concerns about the roof of the 
property. She says Sesame told her that the valuer would review this, and the lender 
wouldnt agree to the mortgage if there was an issue. Sesame says it made it clear the 
different types of valuation available and that it could arrange a more in-depth survey for 
Miss B if she wanted.
Following the valuation, the lender sent a mortgager offer to Sesame and Miss B  
confirming it was willing to provide the mortgage.
Miss B says her solicitor then told her she needed to instruct a survey as the lenders 
valuation was only for its purposes. Miss B contacted Sesame about this. She says Sesame 
told her another valuation wasnt needed  reassuring her that everything was ok with the 
property as the lender had agreed to the mortgage. Sesame says it reiterated another 
survey could be instructed.
Miss B did not instruct a further survey. The purchase of the property went ahead, and the 
mortgage was advanced. A few weeks after moving into the property Miss B noticed 
significant issues with the roof  requiring repair work with a significant cost.
Miss B complained to Sesame that it had misled her about the valuation the lender carried 
out and how in depth it was. She says, based on Sesames advice, she hadnt instructed a 
further survey. And if she had, the defects mightve been found before shed bought the 
property. So, she couldve arranged for them to be rectified beforehand by the seller or 
negotiated a price reduction.
Sesame said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it wasnt part of its role to 
advise on what was the most appropriate level of survey. And it felt its adviser had acted 
appropriately  by confirming the different options available and in saying that a lender 
wouldnt agree to lend if there was a significant issue, which Sesame thought was correct.
Unhappy with this response Miss B asked our service to look into her complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into things but didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. He said 
Sesame wasnt required to advise on what the most appropriate level of survey was. Its 
responsibility was just to provide information about the options available. Sesame said it had 
done so as part of the initial advice. And on balance the investigator felt it likely had, as 
when suggesting later that a more in-depth survey could be instructed, Miss B hadnt 
questioned what was meant by this. He also said, even if there had been a 
misunderstanding initially, he felt the information then received from the lender and solicitors 
was clear about they type of survey carried out. 
Miss B asked for her complaint to be reviewed. She felt the actions of the broker after shed 
initially complained  specifically it going to significant lengths to assist her  indicated it had 
made an error and was trying to rectify this.
As Miss B didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sesames role here was to provide advice in relation to Miss Bs mortgage and its suitability 
based on her individual circumstances. It wasnt part of this role to advise on the property 
being purchased or the level of survey that needed to be carried out. However, if providing 
information about valuations and available options, I think it needed to ensure the 
information given was clear.
There are different levels of valuation available. Sesame says it provided Miss B with 
information about these options including approximate prices based on how in depth they 
were. It hasnt been able to provide copies of any written information given in relation to this. 
It says this information was shared verbally. On balance I think it is likely that the different 
options were talked about. I say this because, after the initial valuation was done, but before 
the mortgage and purchase completed, I can see there were several conversations between 
Miss B and Sesame about the contents of the report. And I can see that Sesame mentioned 
a couple of times that, if Miss B wanted, a further, more in-depth survey could be arranged. 
From what Ive seen it doesnt look like Miss B questioned this  including how it differed 
from the valuation that had already been carried out. Which I think suggests she was aware 
that there were different options available.
Sesame recommended a mortgage that came with a free valuation. Ive seen a copy of the 
mortgage offer from the lender. This confirms that, as a condition of the application, the 
lender will pay for one standard valuation report. This is the report that I understand was 
conducted here. A standard valuation report is for the purposes of the lenders themselves - 
to make sure that the property is a suitable security. Buyers are often encouraged to 
commission their own separate report for their own purposes, before purchasing a property  
as Miss Bs solicitor suggested here.
Miss B says Sesame provided misleading information about what this valuation covered  
specifically that the roof would be thoroughly checked and if no problems were noted 
everything would be alright. Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that Miss B had some 
concerns about the roof from the outset and I think its likely this was discussed.
Sesame seems to acknowledge that the adviser said the lender wouldnt agree to the 
mortgage if the surveyor noted any issues with the property. And I think this is true. If the 
surveyor noted issues in their report indicating there were problems with the property, 
particularly structural defects, it is unlikely the lender would agree to lend. I do think though, 
the adviser couldve been clearer here  as while true, this is dependent on the surveyor 
noting issues and the standard valuation report was ultimately a basic lenders survey, rather 
than a full structural review. Im not sure how clear this was made  that the lenders 
decision is dependent on the surveyors judgement and that the survey was solely for the 
lenders purposes. And I also think Sesame couldve done more to reiterate this when the 
mortgage offer was made.
Miss B says, if Sesame had been clearer about the extent of the lenders valuation, shed have instructed a separate survey. And she has shown she had funds available to do so. But 
Im conscious that after her solicitor suggested she do so, she still chose not to, instead 
continuing to query the extent of the original report. I think this suggests she was keen to 
avoid carrying out a further survey, at a cost to her.
Miss B has said she didnt instruct a further survey because Sesame told her she didnt need 
one at that point, but Im not sure I agree. The communication Ive seen shows Sesame said 
at that point a further, more in-depth survey could still be arranged if Miss B wanted one.
Miss B says Sesame also reassured her that the roof had been checked. And from the 
information available I think Sesame likely did say this  as it appears to have made 
enquiries of the surveyor and lender to check this, and confirmed it did so in response to the 
complaint. But I can also see that, when making her complaint to Sesame, Miss B said shed 
spoken to the vendor who confirmed that the person carrying out the valuation did inspect 
the roof of the property. So, the information Sesame passed on at that point does appear to 
have been correct  that the roof had been checked, and the lender was willing to provide 
the mortgage following this but that a further survey could be arranged if Miss B chose to do 
so. Ultimately Miss B chose not to instruct a separate survey  even though her solicitor had 
suggested she do so. And I dont think, based on what Ive seen, I can hold Sesame 
responsible for this.
Miss B is unhappy that the surveyor didnt notice any issues with the roof of the property. But 
Sesame didnt instruct the valuation  the lender did. And Sesame didnt carry it out, nor as I 
understand it, did the lender. I understand it was done by an independent surveyor. So, I 
cant hold Sesame responsible for the surveyors actions or anything they mightve missed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman