DRN-3890992
The complaint
Miss B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund the money she lost after falling victim
to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
This complaint is about five payments totalling £9,910 that Miss B made from her Monzo
account on 23 July 2021. Ive summarised the key facts and wider circumstances below.
Miss B was contacted on Instagram by a person she didnt know. They told her about an
investment opportunity and said they could guarantee profits of between £500 to £2,000 a
week without Miss B needing to do anything or spend any of her own money. Miss B said
she did not mind taking part if it was a no risk profit. Unfortunately, the situation was not what
it seemed. Miss B was really interacting with a fraudster.
The fraudster sent Miss B money into her account held with another bank and told her they
would use it to place trades together. Miss B sent the money that shed received to a
cryptocurrency exchange. She also sent money of her own. The other bank blocked Miss Bs
account and asked her about the recent incoming payments. Miss B explains that the
fraudster told her to tell her other bank that the money credited was from a work friend. The
other bank did not unblock Miss Bs account at that time.
Miss B was uneasy about the situation. Shes described feeling anxious and nervous as it 
did not seem right. Shed blocked the fraudsters phone number so they couldnt
send her any more messages. But the fraudster contacted Miss B from a different number.
Miss B has provided a copy of a text message that she was sent on 22 July 2021 at 16:47
saying that a debt collector would come to her property to recover money.
Miss B has explained that she wanted to get her own money back. She told the fraudster
they should wait until her other bank account was unblocked but the fraudster was
persistent. Miss B has explained she felt threatened by what the fraudster was saying.
The fraudster told Miss B that the balance in her Monzo account was too high for her to
receive her profits and that she needed to reduce it by sending money to her cryptocurrency
account. Miss B made a payment of £10 at 12:51. She followed it with a payment of £2,995
at 16:32, a payment of £2,005 at 18:26, a payment of £2,800 at 18:53 and a payment of
£2,100 at 19:48. Miss B then followed the fraudsters instructions to send the funds to
another account. She says that she thought the funds were still in a holding account with the
cryptocurrency exchange. Miss B says the scam came to light when the fraudster blocked
her phone number.
Miss B reported the scam to Monzo, but it turned down her claim for a refund. Unhappy with
the banks position, Miss B made a complaint. In its final response letter, Monzo said it had
complied with its regulatory obligations. It said it was unable to reimburse her under the
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
Miss B referred her complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the matter and
recommended that it should be partially upheld. She thought Miss Bs pattern of
spending was unusual and suggested that if the bank had intervened before Miss B made
the third payment, it would have uncovered the scam and stopped her from sending any
more money. But she also considered there were significant signs that this wasnt a
legitimate opportunity and noted that Miss B showed clear signs that she wasnt comfortable
with what she was being asked to do. She concluded that Monzo and Miss B should share
responsibility and recommended that the bank refunded half of the money Miss B had sent
from payment three onwards, along with interest.
Monzo didnt agree. It said the bank had not made any mistake that had contributed to
Miss B suffering a loss. It didnt think Miss Bs account activity was unusual, so it had no
reason to query the payments at the time they were made. It added that it wasnt the point of
loss for the funds because the funds went into another account that she owned and had full
control of. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to consider.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 December 2022. In it, I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. An extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this 
final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in debate that Miss B has fallen victim to a scam. But I am only able to consider
whether Monzo has any responsibility to refund the money that she sent from her Monzo
account. I can only compel Monzo to refund some or all of Miss Bs money if it is responsible
for the loss incurred. Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can
see no basis on which I can fairly say that Monzo should be held liable for some or all of
Miss Bs loss. I can appreciate this will be a very disappointing outcome for Miss B,
especially as it is less favourable than the position our Investigator proposed, so I will explain
why I am minded to reach this conclusion.
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. Miss B made these
payments herself. This means that the payments are authorised, even though Miss B did not
intend for this money to go to fraudsters.
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Monzo
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that Monzo should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations
which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This duty
applies whether the loss occurred from the Monzo account, or at some later point in the
payment journey. So, while I understand that Monzo has suggested it is not responsible for
Miss Bs loss as the funds were transferred to an account in her own name, this does not
absolve Monzo of its responsibility to intervene if it had grounds to believe its customer was
at risk of financial harm from fraud. Miss Bs losses, though not arising from the initial
transfer, ought to have been within the contemplation of, and reasonably foreseeable to,
Monzo.
So Ive considered whether Monzo should have identified that Miss B was potentially at risk
of falling victim to fraud as a result of the payments, or otherwise done more to protect her.
Monzo did not identify the payments Miss B made as being out of character or suspicious at
the time. When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of
character, its often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to strike
between identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks, and
allowing customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary
disruptions.
Ive looked carefully at Miss Bs account statements in the lead up to the scam to get a
clear understanding of how the account typically ran. There was a sudden increase in
spending. It wasnt like Miss B to make a series of faster payments. She tended to use the
account for low value day to day transactions in retail stores. The largest faster payment she
made in the six months leading up to the scam was for just £80. I think the transactions
Miss B was making represented a sudden change to the operation of the account. They
drained the balance of the account which had otherwise been static for some time. By
adding a new payee and making multiple transactions that were significantly higher than
what she usually spent, I think the transactions were displaying risk factors that Monzo ought
to have investigated further. I say this even taking into account the fast-paced
cryptocurrency markets. Even if Miss B had been legitimately investing in cryptocurrency, it
does not make sense why she would have made so many transactions close together rather
than making one payment. Monzo is aware that making a series of smaller payments is a
tactic fraudsters use to try and evade bank security systems.
Even though I think there was a pattern of spending developing that was unusual and out of
character for Miss B and that Monzo should have detected this and intervened, this in and of
itself isnt enough for me to say that Monzo should refund some or all of the money Miss B
has lost. I also need to be persuaded that the banks intervention would have made a
significant difference and ultimately prevented the payments from being made.
When making my decision, I have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is,
what I think is more likely than not to have happened, taking into account what I know from
the information that is available to me. Ive thought about whether interaction with Monzo
would have uncovered the underlying situation. 
And, on balance, Im not persuaded interaction with the bank would have been enough to 
stop Miss B from sending the money, even if the bank had been able to identify that Miss B 
was making payments that were most likely part of a scam.From the outset, this situation was highly suspicious and implausible. The fraudster told
Miss B that she could earn profits of up to £2,000 a week without having to invest a penny of
her own money. I think this was a clear warning sign that the situation was not credible or
above board.
Ive considered how the situation escalated. In the messages I have seen, the fraudster is
unpleasant and I can appreciate why Miss B felt the correspondence to have a menacing
tone. But she continued to make these payments despite being aware that the situation was
not right and having serious concerns about it. Miss Bs account with her other bank had
been blocked before she made any payments from her Monzo account. She had received a
significant amount of money into the account with the other bank that did not belong to her.
She was not truthful with her other bank when it contacted her to ask about this money.
Miss B tried to cease contact with the fraudster by blocking contact from them. But Miss B
continued to engage with the fraudster when they got in touch from a different number.
Shed had the opportunity to reflect on the situation she was in and understood it was not
right, yet still went on to make these payments. From what Miss B has said, her decision
was driven partly by fear and intimidation and partly by a desire to try and recover her own
money that shed already sent. But I think these emotions would have outweighed any
warning that Monzo could have given had it intervened. I am not persuaded that Miss B
would have told Monzo the full picture even if it had asked at the time she was making the
payments.
Ive also thought about whether Monzo ought to have refunded the loss for any other reason,
and in particular, whether Monzo ought to have reimbursed Miss B under the provisions of
the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code, which
Monzo has agreed to adhere to and was in force at the time Miss B sent the money. But the
CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only
covers scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not to a
consumers own account. In this case, Miss B sent the money to her own account held with
a cryptocurrency exchange. This means I dont think Monzo is responsible for reimbursing
her because of any obligation from the CRM Code.
Having carefully considered everything, I am not currently persuaded that the scam would
have been stopped even if Monzo had intervened. And as the funds went to Miss Bs own
account with the cryptocurrency exchange and then on from there, there was little
opportunity for Monzo to recover them or find out more specific details about where they are
now.
Miss B has my considerable sympathy. Fraudsters are masterful at playing on a victims
emotions to obtain what they want and shes lost a lot of money as a result. But for the
reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Miss B isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. And in
all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to find
that Monzo could have stopped what ultimately unfolded. I think, on balance, Miss B would
have made these payments regardless and against her own better judgment. It follows that
Im not currently minded to say that Monzo should bear any responsibility for the loss.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Monzo responded to my provisional decision and said it agreed with my proposed findings 
and had nothing further to add.
Our Investigator contacted Miss B to confirm that she had received the provisional decision 
and enclosed a further copy of it. Miss B responded and said she would like to continue the 
complaint further if she could because she wanted to receive a refund of her own money that 
was lost.Miss B was asked to provide any further comments by 6 January 2023. Our Investigator tried 
to chase her response, but no further contact has been received. 
As the deadline for both parties to respond has now passed, I will review the complaint 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision 
and reproduced above.
I appreciate Miss B has been the victim of a scam and lost money. But in this case, in all the 
circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably say that Monzo is responsible for refunding the 
loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman