DRN-2546564
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc authorised a payment out of his account without his 
consent.
What happened
Mr H says HSBC authorised a payment out of his account for just over £438 without his 
consent. He says the payment was for child maintenance and made his account overdrawn. 
Mr H says HSBCs actions were unfair.
HSBC says it was served an order that required it to take the money out of Mr Hs account 
and says it had no option.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC complied with the account terms and conditions and was obliged to comply 
with the order.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and accepts there have been court proceedings. He says 
HSBC ought to have checked if he could afford the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has acted fairly and hasnt made 
a mistake. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the order that was served on HSBC. Im satisfied that it gave 
HSBC no alternative but to remove the money from Mr Hs account and was legally obliged 
to do so. Im satisfied HSBC fairly explained what it had done and why, and of course its 
open to Mr H to complain to the organisation that served the order on HSBC if he considers 
there has been a mistake.
Im satisfied Mr H has told us he was aware of the court proceedings that led to the order 
and ought reasonably to have been aware that the order would be served on HSBC.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC had no choice but to comply with the order and whilst I 
appreciate Mr Hs account became overdrawn, that is not something I can fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman