DRN-2252908
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Mrs S took out PPI during a meeting at a Halifax branch when they were 
arranging their joint mortgage. The policy covered them both for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S disagree with the adjudicators opinion. They mainly complain that the PPI 
wasnt properly explained and say that they were led to believe they had to have the PPI to 
get the mortgage they were applying for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Heres why I say this.
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs S mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when they arranged the PPI. This was a long time ago and so what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs S discussed taking out PPI alongside their mortgage. 
I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application headed Mortgage Payments 
Protector (this was what Halifax called its PPI at the time). 
It said on the form: We strongly recommend that you consider our Mortgage Payments 
Protector scheme.. 
Whilst I dont know how the advisor they spoke to explained the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, I think 
they wouldve understood that this wasnt wording that suggested it was compulsory with the 
mortgage. 
Brief details of the protection offered are set out and applicants who wished to join the 
scheme were invited to fill in the amount of benefit they wanted to take out. This box is 
completed on the form Mr and Mrs S signed indicating the benefit amount they wanted.
As well as completing the mortgage application paperwork to arrange the borrowing they 
wanted, I've also seen a copy of the separate PPI application which Mr and Mrs S 
completed. 
Theyve put both their names down to be insured, completed some questions to confirm they 
were eligible to take out this cover and signed the completed form to take out the policy. 
Their mortgage was a long term financial commitment and their home couldve been at risk if 
Mr and Mrs S found themselves unexpectedly unable to keep up the monthly mortgage 
repayments. I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S decided they wanted to protect their 
home by taking advantage of the benefits that PPI offered. 
On balance, I think the mortgage paperwork shows that PPI was presented as optional on 
the forms they signed and makes it clear that it was up to Mr and Mrs S to say if they wanted 
to take it out with their mortgage. 
So, even if understandably theyve forgotten this now, I think its likely that at the time 
Mr and Mrs S wouldve known having PPI was their choice and it was added on to their 
mortgage account when they decided to take it out.
Halifax recommended PPI and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date 
Mr and Mrs S took out PPI. 
But it has provided a policy document which was in use shortly afterwards  so I think its 
likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr and Mrs S took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr and Mrs S werent both eligible for the policy. 
And as they were both earning and contributing to the mortgage, sharing the policy benefit 
between them seems reasonable to me. 
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful accident or sickness claim the policy couldve paid out for 
up to 24 months per claim. 
This couldve been useful  particularly as it doesnt look like Mr and Mrs S had any other 
ways to pay the mortgage for long if they werent working as they told us they wouldve 
mainly had to rely on statutory sick pay. I've taken into account that Mr Ss employer paid some extra on top of this based on how 
long hed been in his job. 
But I dont think this wouldve given Mr and Mrs S the same degree of protection as a policy 
that paid their mortgage for two years if he couldnt work. 
The policy also offered Mr and Mrs S protection in the event either (or both) of them became 
unexpectedly unemployed  it couldve paid out for up to 12 months in those circumstances. 
The policy provided long term protection as Mr and Mrs S couldve made repeated claims on 
it. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs S had some savings. But there was no guarantee 
when they took out this mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
It looks like they mightve used at least some of that money as a deposit on their new home. 
And, if Mr and Mrs S didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of the 
mortgage, perhaps because they preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial 
security or to spend on other things, then I think they wouldve valued the protection PPI 
offered. Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs S could be sure they would be able to pay the 
mortgage monthly repayments without breaking into savings.  
So, overall, I think that Halifaxs recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if either of them wouldve been affected by 
any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having more 
information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off taking out the 
PPI. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the monthly policy cost. But 
they chose to take out cover when they didnt have to. And there was an indication of the 
likely cost set out on the application they filled in to get the policy. So they wouldve had 
some idea of the monthly premium and they seem to have been happy to pay it at the time. 
As Mr and Mrs S also chose to buy some extra benefit to cover the cost of life assurance, as 
well as the mortgage monthly repayments, it doesnt look as if paying for the cover was a 
problem for them. 
This was a policy they paid for each month so Mr and Mrs S couldve cancelled the policy at 
any time without incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay for it.  
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold  but 
I dont think this wouldve made any difference to what happened. I think Mr and Mrs S still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been better informed as the PPI gave them 
useful protection in their particular situation. 
So, overall, I dont find that Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did 
wrong. This means there isnt anything Halifax needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman