DRN-3879800
The complaint
Miss A complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc  trading as Moneyway was irresponsible in 
approving her application for credit.
What happened
In August 2017 Miss A applied for credit with Moneyway for the purchase of a used car 
costing £8,995.
Moneyway approved Miss As application and provided finance of £8,995 under a hire 
purchase agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, everything else being equal, 
Miss A undertook make 59 monthly payments of £247.36 followed by one monthly payment 
of £257.36, making a total sum repayable of £14,851.60 at an APR of 24.9%.
In January 2022 Miss A complained to Moneyway that it shouldnt have approved her 
application, and this would have been obvious or apparent to it had it carried sufficient 
checks into her personal and financial circumstances. She also complained that the 
agreement APR of 24.9% was unfair.
Moneyway didnt uphold Miss As complaint so she referred it to our service for investigation.
Miss As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He came to the view that 
Moneyway should have carried out further checks before approving Miss As application, but 
these checks wouldnt have caused it to decline her application.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to point out that Im satisfied that Miss A has had ample opportunity to 
provide further submissions in support of her view that her complaint should be upheld. And 
because of this I see no good reason to delay any further the issue of this final decision.
Secondly, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Finally, I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Miss As complaint. 
There are three questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Moneyway treated Miss A 
fairly and reasonably when it approved her application in August 2017. These include: 
did it complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss A 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
did Moneyway complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss A 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Moneyway had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Miss A could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is 
often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Moneyway needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Moneyways checks 
needed to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of 
credit, the interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks Moneyway needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the money back would cause Miss A any difficulties or have any adverse 
consequences for her. They would also need to take account of factors such as (amongst 
other things) the amount of money being lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the 
credit and the interest rate being charged. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the lending (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended
period)
I can see that as part of her application Miss A declared that she was single, born in 1996, 
and had been employed  with the same employer  for three years. In addition, Moneyway 
says Miss A declared (as part of her application) that she was living with her parents. Miss A 
also provided Moneyway with a payslip that showed she had a monthly net income of 
£1,180.
Moneyway has provided a summary copy of the credit check it undertook when considering 
Miss As application. And this shows she was registered on the electoral role at her declared 
address, had two current accounts, one credit card (with an outstanding balance of £700 
against a credit limit of £1,900), a recently repaid loan (with no arrears) and an 18 month old 
defaulted balance of £132 with a communication supplier.Moneyway didnt ask Miss A anything about her monthly expenditure. Instead it relied on 
Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate the same. Moneyway says Miss As 
estimated expenditure (including the monthly cost of the agreement subject to this 
complaint) was calculated to be £711, £469 less than her net income of £1,180.
Like the investigator, I think that in the particular circumstances of this case it would have 
been prudent for Moneyway to have made further enquiries into Miss As monthly 
expenditure rather than relying on ONS data. So, I find that the checks undertaken by 
Moneyway werent  on the balance of probabilities  reasonable and proportionate. 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at this time?
Like the investigator Im not saying Moneyway should have asked for copies of Miss As 
bank statements, it could have instead simply asked Miss A to complete and income 
expenditure form. But Miss As bank statements do allow me to establish what further 
enquiries by Moneyway might have uncovered about Miss As monthly expenditure.
Ive looked at the bank statements provided to our service by Miss A. And like the 
investigator Im satisfied that sight of these statements, or any other enquiries Moneyway 
might have made into Miss As monthly expenditure, wouldnt have caused it to decline 
Miss As application. In other words, I find that Moneyway didnt do anything wrong in 
approving Miss As application.
did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss A says that the APR of 24.9% was/is unfair. However, Im satisfied that the setting of 
this APR was a commercial decision for Moneyway and a decision that it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to interfere with. I would also add that Im satisfied that Miss A, by just a 
casual inspection of the various paperwork that she was provided with, should have 
understood at what rate of interest Moneyway was prepared to lend to her.
I appreciate my findings will come as a disappointment to Miss A, but taking everything into 
account I find that Moneyway, in the particular circumstances of this case, did nothing wrong 
in approving Miss As application for credit and at an APR of 24.9%.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman