DRN-2220389
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont provide him with a replacement credit card. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
The card scheme Lloyds used for Mr Ws credit card account ended its licensing agreement 
in 2019. This meant Lloyds were unable to continue providing Mr W with a credit card with 
this scheme provider. Lloyds made the decision that they would close Mr Ws account and 
wrote to him in April 2019 to inform him of this. The account was closed in July 2019.
Mr W complained to Lloyds about not being offered a replacement card as he said he relied 
on it for make car hire bookings. He also didnt think interest charges should continue to be 
applied if he wasnt provided the use of a credit card.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were unable to provide Mr W with a credit 
card as the card scheme had ended its licensing agreement with them (and other financial 
institutions). And that after reviewing how Mr W had managed his account and information 
from credit reference agencies, they were unable to offer him an alternative card. Lloyds 
confirmed they couldnt re-open the account and interest would continue to be charged while 
there was an outstanding balance.
The complaint was brought to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly or outside the terms of the account. She said Lloyds 
had given Mr W the required notice that they would be closing his account and so wouldnt 
be offering him a new credit card. She also considered the fees and charges, including 
interest, had been applied correctly. 
Mr W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand Mr Ws frustration with whats happened as he finds himself in a situation 
where he is paying interest charges on the outstanding balance but he no longer has use of 
a credit card. Im also aware that Mr W says hes been inconvenienced by the removal of the 
card because he used it for booking holidays and car hire purposes. But what I must 
consider here is whether Lloyds has acted fairly and in line with the terms of the account. 
Having done so, I think they have and Ill explain why.
The terms of the account say:
18. ENDING THE AGREEMENT
18.1 This agreement can be ended by you under condition 8 and by us giving you 
two months notice, or immediate notice in exceptional circumstances. In both cases:
you must stop making any Transactions, return all Cards and Cheques (cut in 
half) and cancel instructions or authorities you have given others to charge your 
account; and
the agreement will continue until you have repaid all amounts you owe us 
including Transactions, fees and charges added to your account after we 
received your notice, or gave you notice.
I think the above term makes it clear that Lloyds can end the agreement  and thereby close 
the account - by providing two months notice. Im satisfied Lloyds did this by writing to Mr W 
in April 2019. I consider the above also sets out that, in this instance, Mr W will no longer 
have use of a card but fees and charges will continue to be applied until the amount owed is 
repaid. 
I realise Mr W says that by Lloyds not offering him a new product (or card), the account is 
useless to him. And that this wasnt what he signed up for when he took out the credit card, 
so he shouldnt be charged interest when services are now no longer being provided to him.  
Ive taken what Mr W has said in to account. But Im satisfied Lloyds has acted in line with 
the account terms and so I dont think theyre obligated to provide a credit card for Mr W to 
use. I think its also important to note that Lloyds is required to lend responsibly and so, I 
dont think the decision they made to not offer further borrowing  or allow an alternative 
card  was unreasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, although Mr W no longer has 
use of the card the interest that is being charged is for money hes borrowed. I therefore 
dont think its unreasonable for interest to be applied, as per the account terms. Mr W is 
however free to repay the amount owed if he is unhappy with the interest he is being 
charged.  
I know this isnt the outcome Mr W is hoping for but I dont think Lloyds has to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman