DRN-4529619
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the advice she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC
(Barclays) to invest into a Barclays Personal Investment Management Portfolio (BPIM). She
says that the advice to invest was not suitable for her at the time and in particular it carried
too much risk.
Mrs H is being represented with this complaint by a CMC.
What happened
In April 1999, Mrs H was advised by Barclays to invest £50,000 into a BPIM.
The investment was surrendered between June and July 2002, with Mrs H receiving
proceeds of approximately £46,200.
Mrs H complained through a CMC in August 2021 that the BPIM was unsuitable for her.
They said that Mrs Hs attitude to risk hadnt been fully assessed and her future needs hadnt
been considered. They also said that an inappropriately low amount of free assets were left
after the investment and the level of risk taken was too high.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. In response to the complaint issues raised, they said,
that the investment had met Mrs Hs attitude to risk. They also said it met her future
objectives at the time of investment and was affordable with a sufficient cash reserve left.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to us.
The investigator recommended upholding the complaint. She thought that the level of risk
within the portfolio was unsuitable based on Mrs Hs circumstances at the time. She was
particularly concerned that the portfolio seemed to include Mrs Hs cash reserve as an
uninvested amount and in her opinion, make it seem a more balanced investment. She set
out the steps she felt Barclays needed to take to put things right.
Barclays didnt agree. Maintaining it was suitable for Mrs H and pointing to other decisions
reached by this Service regarding a BPIM.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, an extract of which is below and forms part of this decision.
My provisional decision
Ive looked at what I know about Mrs Hs overall financial situation when she took out 
this investment. In addition to what the parties have told me, I think its reasonable for 
me to rely on information in the fact find document and other point of sale 
documents.
Barclays has provided details of other cases this service has decided on, in similar
circumstances, regarding the same product. Whilst I am aware of them and the 
decisions reached, each case is decided on its own merits.
Mrs H was a director of her own company along with her husband (who had received 
advice to invest into the same managed portfolio a year prior). She was recorded as 
having £90,000 as available cash funds and a net monthly disposable income of 
£630. She had no dependants and owned her home with her husband, mortgage 
free. She was said to be looking to achieve capital growth whilst willing to take a 
medium risk.
Medium risk doesnt appear to have been defined at the point of sale, according to 
the paperwork I have been provided with. But it was the option selected by Mrs H, 
with the options being risk adverse, low risk, medium risk or high risk. Following this 
Mrs H was advised to invest £50,000 into the BPIM.
The January 1999 guidelines (just prior to this investment) for this portfolio are Fixed 
Interest 10%, UK equities 70%, International Equities 10%, Liquidity 10%. This meant 
Mrs H retained £40,000 as cash savings and the portfolio had a further 10% (£5,000 
approximately) held as cash under the guidelines.
I can accept that, superficially at least, an argument could be made that the BPIM 
involves a fairly high concentration of assets which might typically be regarded as 
being risky. But in context, I think that such an argument takes too narrow a view of 
Mrs Hs circumstances. And in particular, the amount of uninvested cash shed 
retained, along with her disposable income.
Its my view that Barclays was correct to take account of Mrs Hs uninvested cash 
when tailoring its recommendations to her circumstances. Doing so meant that whilst 
roughly 50% of her money was invested in the BPIM, and a good percentage of that 
was in equities, the remaining 50% of her money was kept stable in cash that she 
could earn interest on. Barclays also appears to have factored in that Mrs Hs 
disposable income willve allowed her to top up her savings, and replenish any losses 
she mightve made on the BPIM.
Acting fairly and reasonably, I wouldnt expect Barclays to have assessed the risk 
Mrs H was taking by focussing narrowly on a single product. In my opinion, giving 
suitable advice would mean taking account of all of Mrs Hs circumstances when 
making any recommendations. And Im satisfied on balance that the banks likely to 
have done that in this case. Its my view that the risks taken in the BPIM are 
balanced by the considerable cash element that was accounted for in the banks 
advice. Looked at as a whole, Im not persuaded Barclays recommendations 
exposed Mrs H to more risk than the evidence available suggests she was prepared 
to take at the time.
Overall, in summary, I think Barclays made a suitable recommendation to Mrs H. She
retained a large cash reserve and had sufficient disposable income to cover any 
unexpected costs or losses. Whilst the portfolio exposed her to some riskier 
investments, overall, I think her portfolio was in line with her elected and appropriate 
level of risk. So, I am satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for her. This 
means Barclays dont need to do anything further. For these reasons, I am not 
upholding this complaint.Barclays responded to acknowledge receipt of the provisional findings, but confirmed they 
had nothing further to add. 
Mrs H responded through her CMC with several points, including:
More consideration for pension contributions should have been given and not ruled 
out, with a shortfall in this area.
Impact on the cash reserve by future increased pension contributions should have 
been factored in.
Impact on the cash reserve by potential further investment into fixed rate bonds 
should have been factored in.
The advice was unsuitable, particularly because Mr and Mrs Hs income was very 
variable and dependent on the profitability of their business.
Mr and Mrs Hs remuneration from the business was lower than recorded, when 
taken on an average over the three years prior. They maintained this would have 
been the fair calculation rather than just looking at the year previous.
A business loan to Mrs H had not been repaid at the time of the advice.
It wasnt appropriate for Mr and Mrs H to have been recorded with the second most 
adventurous investment objective of capital growth with safety. 
They concluded that, overall given the variable company income and the associated 
impact on Mr & Mrs Hs income, the limited reserves held within their company and 
the significant loan they owed to the company; and the lack of pension provision 
which was to be considered further in the near future we consider the investment was 
inappropriate particularly given the level of risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this and the responses to my provisional decision in full, I remain of the
opinion that Barclays made a suitable recommendation to Mrs H. I will address each of the 
specific considerations that their representative provided in response to my provisional 
decision.
The CMC has said that it should have been factored in that Mr and Mrs H would likely 
increase their pension contributions. This would in turn impact on the net disposable income 
and cash reserve. However, it was noted in the fact find that Mr and Mrs H did not want to 
discuss pension planning in more detail. I cant see anything that would have made it clear to 
the adviser that there was going to be an increase in contributions in this area, they declined 
the recommendation to discuss increasing contributions.
I appreciate the CMC says an increase in contributions later happened and that it should 
have been clear to the adviser at the time due to what Mr H said he needed in retirement, 
but I dont agree. Mr H might have been planning to fund it with an alternative source which 
wasnt clear at the time, and he declined the opportunity to go through that in detail. I 
wouldnt have expected this advice to be tapered by something that Mr H had declined to do. Mr and Mrs H also declined to discuss fixed rate products at the time but confirmed he will 
consider them. Again, I wouldnt expect a future prospect of an investment there, to taper 
this investment. That can be considered at a later point, if Mr and Mrs H did decide they 
wanted to go ahead with some other investments such as fixed rate products. 
The CMC has also said that the advice wasnt suitable because Mr and Mrs Hs income from 
the business was usually lower than it was at the time of the advice. However, I cant see 
anything to show that Barclays were made aware of this or an outstanding business loan to 
Mrs H. This wasnt included in the fact find, so I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have 
considered it. I also think it was fair they only considered he previous years income, as that 
is all I can see they were made aware of. 
The CMC has also said that it wasnt appropriate for Mr and Mrs H to have been given the 
second highest investment objective category. Whilst I understand this, I havent focused my 
decision on ratings. But rather the suitability of the advice considering the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs H at the time. 
In summary, my findings on this case havent changed following the responses to my
provisional decision. I still believe the recommendation made by Barclays to Mrs H was 
suitable. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman