DRN-3641663
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter 
Savings Bank (CSB) have unfairly failed to raise the interest rate payable on their bank 
account. They wish for the interest rates offered to later customers to be applied 
retrospectively to their account.
What happened
Mrs and Mr L took out a joint bank account with CSB. The terms of this account meant that 
they were unable to make withdrawals without giving 95 days notice, and provided for a 
variable rate of interest.
Mrs and Mr L say that the interest rate reduced when the Bank of England base rate 
reduced. They say that this was appropriate and understandable. But it did not rise when the 
base rate rose. While Mrs and Mr L accept that this might have been in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account, they consider that it breached the reasonable expectations 
they formed in response to CSBs Savers Charter (the Charter).
Mrs and Mr L consider that the following phrases from the Charter are of particular 
relevance:
honest and trustworthy service;
stick to it;
offering competitive rates; 
clear, jargon-free language;
100% open and honest; and
your savings to grow with us for as long as its right for you.
They say that the combined effect of these phrases, and the Charter in general, is that the 
bank gave an undertaking to provide the best interest rate to them that it could at any 
particular time. They say that subsequent online offers for time-limited withdrawal accounts 
demonstrate that other customers are getting a better deal, which breaches the terms to 
which they believed they were signing up.
CSB says that the 95 days notice accounts are individual accounts, set up and released in 
batches. Each is, in effect, a limited time offer, with the rates being set based upon factors 
which exist at the time of the release. They say that customers can switch from one to 
another, provided they give 95 days notice required for all withdrawals. 
Our investigator considered that CSB had acted in line with the terms and conditions on the 
account. They thought in particular that paragraph 20.2 of the General Savings Conditions 
applied, which state that subject to paragraph 20.4, we can (but have no obligation to) 
proportionately change our interest rates or tiers to reflect a change in the Bank of 
England Base Rate, where paragraph 20.4 refers to any fixed or tracker rate period and 
does not apply here. They thought that CSB was not bound to offer the same interest rates 
to Mrs and Mr L as they did to any subsequent savers, and that the bank had not got 
anything wrong.
Mrs and Mr L did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr Ls account is not a straightforward current account, to which more standardised 
interest rates might be expected to apply. They agreed that they would not be able to 
withdraw money before giving 95 days notice, in exchange for which a higher rate of interest 
was paid. It is agreed by the parties, and I am satisfied, that this interest rate was variable 
and did not directly track any index or other standard. Mrs and Mr L agreed to a particular 
rate for this account and thats what CSB gave them. When the rate changed, CSB then 
notified them fairly and appropriately in line with the terms. Theres nothing in the literature to 
say that suggest that the rate would be updated to be in line with future issues of the 
account.
I have considered all the submissions and documents sent to this service. These include the 
General Saving Conditions which applied to the account, together with the specific features 
of the account to which Mrs and Mr L signed up. Paragraph 20.2 of the General Saving 
Conditions provides that CSB is under no obligation to raise the interest levels in line with 
the Bank of England base rate, or at all. I am satisfied that this is expressed in clear 
language and is not unfair or misleading. The terms and conditions did not require a higher 
rate of interest to be applied to the account than CSB in fact applied.
Mrs and Mr L attach particular weight to the Charter, which they say led them to believe that 
CSB would treat them more favourably than it has done. 
I have considered carefully what Mrs and Mr L say about this, but I am not satisfied that CSB 
said anything untrue in this. The content of the Charter doesnt suggest that any duty to Mrs 
and Mr L would extend to it amending the rates of existing products to be in line with future 
products offered at different rates. Nor is it obscure or masked in jargon in a way thats 
misleading in any sense. For the most part, the Charter is worded simply, using general 
phrases which might be seen in any promotional leaflet.
I cannot say that a fair reading of the Charter would require that CSB offer the interest rates 
that Mrs and Mr L wish to be applied to their account. In particular, I do not think that an 
account is no longer competitive if later, similar, accounts are offered on more favourable 
terms. CSB offered an account at what Mrs and Mr L must have felt was a competitive rate 
at the time and they agreed to the terms of it on that basis. CSB then provided that account 
in line with these terms. I dont think it follows that CSBs charter suggests that any duty to 
Mrs and Mr L would extend to changing the interest rates of this account to be more in line 
with any accounts that may be issued subsequently.
While I understand that Mrs and Mr L feel let down by CSB, I cannot say that the bank has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. I am not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman