DRN-2629394
The complaint
Mrs F is represented in this complaint by her son, who holds a Power of Attorney for Mrs F.
Mrs F is unhappy that Back of Scotland plc (BOS) approved a joint loan for her and her late 
husband, which she believes was unaffordable for her at that time. 
Mrs Fs representative is also unhappy with the service that they received when they 
attempted to register the late Mr Fs death with Bank of Scotland plc. 
What happened
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs F applied for a joint loan for approximately £6,000 to be repaid 
over a term of five years in order to consolidate existing debts. BOS approved the loan 
application and the funds were received by Mr and Mrs F toward the end of January 2017.
Sadly, Mr F passed away approximately three years into the term of the loan, which meant 
that the liability for the remaining loan repayments was left solely with Mrs F. 
Mrs Fs representative wasnt happy about this because he didnt feel that the loan should 
have been approved in the first instance, and he also wasnt happy with the service that hed 
received from BOS when he had attempted to register the late Mr Fs death with them. So, 
he raised a complaint.
BOS looked at this complaint, but they felt that the loan had been affordable for Mr and Mrs 
F at the time that it was taken out, and they didnt agree that the service provided to Mrs Fs 
representative hadnt been to an acceptable level. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs Fs representative wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so they referred their complaint 
to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the 
loan was affordable for Mr and Mrs F at the time that it was taken out, and they didnt feel 
that there was sufficient evidence to conclude that the service that Mrs Fs representative 
had received from BOS was to a poor standard. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs Fs representative remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs Fs position here, and I realise the profound effect that the loss of a 
spouse can have, as well as the difficult situation that Mrs F now finds herself in. 
However, this complaint is concerned primarily with whether the loan that was approved in 
Mr and Mrs Fs joint name in January 2017 was affordable for Mr and Mrs F at that time. 
This means that its important to acknowledge the distinction between Mrs Fs circumstances 
as they were at the time of the loan application in January 2017, and Mrs Fs circumstances 
as they are at present. And this is because its only Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of the 
loan application in January 2017 that have a bearing on whether the approval of that loan by 
BOS can be considered as being irresponsible or not.
Im aware that Mrs Fs representative is of the opinion that Mr and Mrs F were both of an 
advanced age at the time of the loan application, such that it was irresponsible for BOS to 
approve the loan. I can see the point that Mrs Fs representative is making here, to a degree, 
but people of pensionable age are entitled to apply for loans if they wish to do so, and Im 
not convinced that it would have been appropriate for BOS to have declined this loan solely 
because of the age of the applicants. Indeed, it may have been prejudicial for them to have 
done so.
Instead, it would be expected by this service that BOS would conduct an assessment of the 
financial position of Mr and Mrs F at that time that they were applying for the loan, to ensure 
that the loan that they were intending to take would be affordable for them.
And I think that BOS did that here. They obtained information about Mr and Mrs Fs income 
and also determined that the loan itself was being used for debt consolidation purposes, 
which meant that Mr and Mrs Fs monthly outgoings were reduced as a result of the loan 
being approved. All of which meant that BOS concluded that this loan was affordable for Mr 
and Mrs F at the time that it was applied for, and I havent seen anything in the evidence and 
information available to me that causes me to doubt the validity of that conclusion. 
I also havent seen anything that would cause me to suspect that Mr or Mrs F werent aware 
of, or didnt have an understanding of, the particulars of the loan that they were applying for 
at that time, or the consequences that taking the loan would have on their future financial 
obligations. This includes a copy of the loan agreement that was signed by both Mr and Mrs 
F and which details the particulars of the loan. And again, it must be noted that in taking this 
loan, Mr and Mrs Fs monthly outgoings were reduced, because of the consolidating nature 
of the loan.
Mrs Fs representative has stated his belief that given that a sizeable portion of the loan 
amount received by Mr and Mrs F was used to repay borrowings that were in Mr Fs name 
only, it shouldnt have been the case that this loan was written in joint names or that the 
liability for the repayment of the outstanding balance of the loan now rests solely with Mrs F.
But a large portion of the loan amount was used to clear the overdraft on an account held 
jointly by Mr and Mrs F, and it isnt unusual for married couples to take joint loans in 
circumstances such as this. And it must be noted that theres nothing in any of the evidence 
Ive seen that suggests that Mrs F had any reservations about the loan being written in joint 
names at the time that it was being applied for.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the loan was affordable for Mr and Mrs F at the time 
that it was taken out and that the approval of this loan by BOS does not constitute an 
example of irresponsible lending.
And while its acknowledged that Mrs F is in a vulnerable position at this time, this is a 
separate matter to whether the loan was affordable for her and the late Mr F at the time that 
it was applied for, and so doesnt affect the legitimacy of the outstanding balance.
What this service would expect in the current circumstances would be that BOS would react 
to Mrs Fs present position with a degree of sympathy and positivity. And it appears that 
BOS have done that here. BOS have confirmed to this service that, if they have not already done so, Mrs F or her representative can speak with their Customer Priority Team, which 
can review Mrs Fs current position and consider potential options.
Finally, Mrs Fs representative has expressed his dissatisfaction with the service that he 
received from BOS when he attempted to register the late Mr Fs death with them. And I can 
understand how this would have been a emotive task for Mrs Fs representative, given that 
he is the son of the late Mr F.
Unfortunately, its difficult for me to come to a fair decision on this point, especially given that 
BOS deny that the standard of service provided by their staff at that time was less than the 
standard that they would expect. Of course, I wasnt present in branch at that time, and no 
recordings of the interaction in branch exist for me to consider. So, I can only assess the 
testimony provided by both parties. And, in instances such as this, where these testimonies 
contradict, it isnt fair or reasonable for this service to accept one version of events over 
another. 
I understand that Mrs Fs representative may feel that this service is taking the side of BOS 
by not accepting his version of events and upholding this aspect of this complaint. But this 
isnt the case, and rather, given that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an impartial 
dispute resolution service, my decision here is that I dont have sufficient information to 
reach a conclusion either way, which means my only option is to make no decision. And I 
must note that if I were to side with Mrs Fs representative without compelling evidence to do 
so, that would not constitute an impartial decision.
It follows then, from all that Ive explained above, that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
asking BOS to take any further action at this time, beyond what this service would expect 
given the current position of Mrs F  to which I have referred above.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs Fs representative was wanting, but I hope 
that both Mrs F and her representative can understand, based on what I have explained, 
why I have reached the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman