DRN-4323792
The complaint
Mr A complains about the price charged by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to renew his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. He also complains about his policy auto-renewing and 
not receiving notification of renewal in advance.  
What happened
Mr A says, on 16 March 2023, he noticed his policy was due to expire on 20 March, so he 
called UKI to ask why he hadnt received a renewal invite. He says the call handler explained 
a renewal had been sent out, but Mr A says this never arrived. Mr A says the call handler 
said they would send another renewal. Mr A says he asked the call handler if his policy was 
set to automatically renew, and they confirmed it wasnt. He says the call handler asked if he 
would like to renew now and he explained he would wait until his return from holiday. Mr A 
says when he returned from holiday, he still hadnt received a renewal invite so he called 
UKI on 25 March and was informed his policy had been renewed at a price of £674.99. Mr A 
says he didnt give permission for this money to come out of his account. Mr A says he was 
then assured a manager would call him, but despite chasing, a manager hasnt returned his 
call. Mr A says he then received two renewal letters on the same day - but after the date of 
renewal. So, Mr A complained to UKI. 
UKI responded and explained policy documents were sent to Mr A on 27 February, with 
further renewal invites sent in March. UKI said all documents issued to Mr A confirmed his 
policy will automatically renew unless he stopped this. UKI said theyd listened to Mr As 
calls when discussing his renewal and at no point did Mr A ask about automatic renewal or 
them confirming cover will need to be renewed manually. In relation to the price increase, 
UKI said premiums are based on the level of risk to provide cover, and these risks may 
increase due to environmental changes, claims or losses. They said premiums may also 
increase following a change to their risk assessment tools which are built into their renewal 
system  which look into different factors. UKI accepted no attempt was made to call Mr A 
back to discuss his concerns, so theyd arranged for a cheque for £20 to be sent to Mr A.           
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He thought UKI hadnt treated Mr A unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. He also thought the £20 paid to Mr A was reasonable for the customer 
service issue and didnt uphold the complaint about Mr As policy automatically renewing.  
Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Pricing 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr A paid a premium of £430.08 in 2022 but was then charged a price of £674.99 
in 2023  this is around 57% more than what he paid the year before. So, I understand why   
Mr A is concerned about the price increase. UKI have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Mr As price increase was calculated. Im 
afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it 
carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he has been charged has been calculated correctly and 
fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other UKI customers in Mr As position will have been 
charged a lower premium. 
UKI confirm their in-built risk assessment model calculates the price  and in this case, no 
manual loading was applied. I think thats important here as it demonstrates the pricing 
model used to calculate Mr As premium was no different to what was used for any other 
customer in the same circumstances. Mr A may feel this is unfair, but UKI, like all insurers, 
will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes to the 
premium. UKI explain their pricing algorithm and risk assessment tool is used to calculate 
their policies. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the pricing 
calculation and Mr A hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to use this 
approach.  
I can see Mr A has provided a copy of his renewal invite for his other vehicle, which shows 
an increase of around £20. Mr A says this increase is significantly less than the increase 
applied at renewal in this case. I think its important to mention here, its for a business to 
decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - 
different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher 
premium has made an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but 
rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to risk. 
Automatic renewal and customer service 
System information provided by UKI shows Mr As policy was due to renew on 20 March 
2023, and UKI sent a policy renewal reminder letter on 19 February and renewal documents 
to Mr A on 27 February. This confirms the renewal price as £674.99. Further renewal invites 
are then sent on 10 March and 16 March. Ive seen the renewal invite  and its addressed 
correctly. 
The invite says, Your policy will renew automatically. and If you dont want us to 
automatically renew your policy, please contact us before the renewal date. The invite goes 
further to say, to renew the policy, UKI will take payment on 20 March, and it then notes the 
card details the payment will be taken from.  
Mr A says he didnt receive the renewal invites until 6 April. Its unfortunate the renewal 
invites sent on 10 March and 16 March werent received by Mr A until after his policy had 
renewed, but I cant hold UKI responsible for any delays in the postal service. And, because 
I think the information on the renewal does make it clear Mr As policy will automatically 
renew and the method of payment theyll use, I cant say UKI have acted unreasonably in 
taking payment and renewing the policy.  I note Mr A says he spoke with UKI prior to the renewal date and a call handler confirmed his 
policy wasnt set for automatic renewal. Ive listened to the call recording for two calls Mr A 
had with UKI on 16 March. During the first call, Mr A explains he has been involved in an 
accident. Later in the call Mr A explains he has noticed his policy is due to expire on 20 
March, but he has received no notification of this. The call handler explains Mr A will need to 
speak with the customer services team about this. At the end of the call Mr A asks to be 
transferred to the customer services team. Mr A explains theres four days left before his 
policy expires and he hasnt received any notification. The call handler asks if Mr As policy 
is set up for automatic renewal and Mr A explains he doesnt know. Mr A says, Perhaps its  
automatic insurance then, I dont know The call handler then offers to put Mr A through to 
customer services and Mr A explains hell deal with it after he returns from holiday now and 
says, If its automatic, its automatic isnt it. The call handler explains its best to check to 
ensure Mr As vehicle isnt left uninsured.  
 
Mr A then calls the customer services team and explains his policy is due for renewal on 20 
March, but he hasnt received any notification so hes unsure whether he is on automatic 
renewal. The call handler explains they would still send documents at renewal, but post is 
taking some time. The call handler then checks Mr As details on their system and explains a 
renewal quote was sent on 27 February and renewal invite on 10 March. The call handler 
offers to go through it now and Mr A explains he doesnt have time now and the call handler 
agrees to send another letter. Mr A explains a letter has been sent on 10 March and it hasnt 
arrived yet and in four days time hell be uninsured. The call handler says Mr A can go 
through it over the phone and Mr A explains hes going away the following week and hell 
sort it when he returns. 
I do understand Mr A was left frustrated when his policy did automatically renew, but I dont 
think UKI have acted unreasonably here. I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, as 
mentioned above, the letters sent to Mr A did make it clear that his policy was set up for 
automatic renewal. I acknowledge Mr A says he didnt receive these prior to renewal, but I 
cant hold UKI responsible if delivery of the letters was delayed. Secondly, I note Mr A says 
the call handler confirmed his policy wasnt set up for automatic renewal, but having listened 
to both calls from 16 March, I dont agree this was confirmed to Mr A. In the first call Mr A 
appears to accept that if the policy is set up for automatic renewal, then it will automatically 
renew. In the second call, although Mr A does ask about automatic renewal, the agent 
doesnt appear to respond to this, and the conversation moves onto the letters which have 
been sent. Mr A doesnt ask UKI to allow his policy to expire and he also doesnt specifically 
ask UKI to cancel any automatic renewal. He does say he will deal with this on his return 
from holiday, but I dont believe this provides clear and definite instructions for UKI not to 
renew the policy. 
That being the case, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to renew the policy  
particularly as not doing so without clear instructions wouldve meant theyve acted against 
the terms set out in their renewal invite, and also could potentially have left Mr A without 
insurance on his vehicle. I acknowledge Mr A says he was away so wouldnt be driving his 
vehicle, but no insurance wouldve meant Mr As vehicle had no cover while parked. So, 
taking this all into account, I dont think UKI have acted unfairly here in automatically 
renewing the policy.  
The key facts about the part of Mr As complaint relating to the customer service isnt in 
dispute. UKI have admitted they got things wrong by not returning Mr As call despite being 
assured they would call him. I note Mr A was left frustrated by this. UKI have paid Mr A £20 
compensation to reflect the impact on Mr A  and I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.   I understand why Mr A has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive carefully 
considered the pricing information from UKI. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or 
treated Mr A unfairly. I wish to reassure Mr A Ive read and considered everything he has 
sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman