DRN-2162892
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has changed the percentage 
splits of the funds he holds within his personal pension. He says the percentages are not the 
same as those allocated when he took out the plan and thinks that Aviva is responsible for 
altering his funds without consent. He doesnt think that Aviva has provided him with a good 
service to date and wants to be compensated. He says hes no longer comfortable investing 
with Aviva.
What happened
Mr C holds a pension with Aviva. It contains three different funds which Mr C says were 
initially expressed as a set percentage of the overall plan. But recently, whilst trying to 
resolve a problem about the beneficiaries on his plan, he noticed that those percentages had 
changed and werent the same as they had been when the plan was set up. He thought 
Aviva had been altering his pension without his consent, so he asked it for an explanation. 
Aviva said the online account Mr C could see reflected the overall fund split of the policy and 
any changes in these percentages reflected the change in value of his plan over time. It 
confirmed it hadnt made any fund switches to enact the changes and assured him that no 
one was making unauthorised changes to his plan. It offered £50 for the concern caused 
over the length of time it had taken to answer Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C accepted the offer, but he didnt accept Avivas explanation. He said that since the 
percentages had been altered his overall pension fund had fallen in value. He said he 
wouldnt invest any further money until he received a satisfactory resolution. So, he brought 
his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
She explained that the value of each fund within Mr Cs plan fluctuates with changes that 
occur in the investment markets. She said this caused the percentage of each fund to 
change, but still meant the overall composition of the plan would equal 100% of the three 
funds Mr C was invested. She confirmed that Aviva wasnt altering the price or value of 
Mr Cs funds and reassured him that no fraudulent activity had taken place. She instructed 
Aviva to pay the £50 it had already said it would pay Mr C for any inconvenience caused.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the percentage split should remain the same as when he first took 
out his plan. He also said that the number of units he held in each fund had changed as well, 
which wasnt something he would normally expect to happen  especially as hed stopped 
paying into the pension. He said he wanted more compensation than hed been offered for 
the distress that hed been caused.
Mr C said he wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr C has also had a different administrative issue with his pension, and I 
have some sympathy for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused by these matters. 
But, like the investigator, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here, which I know is 
an outcome that will disappoint Mr C, so Ill explain why. 
Mr C holds three funds within his plan. He says originally the percentage of each fund within 
his plan was 85%, 10% and 5%. But he says that when hes been checking his account 
online recently these percentages have altered.  An example of what Mr C complained about 
was when one of the funds increased from 10 to 11% and another decreased from 85 to 
84%. Ive seen the screenshots that Mr C has provided indicating these variations.  
  
But any plan will vary in terms of the percentage of each fund held within it, as stocks are 
bought and sold  to ensure it remains within the correct risk profile. The value of the plan 
will also vary depending on the performance of each fund and what factors are affecting its 
price. That doesnt mean the overall value of the plan is falling or decreasing in line with 
those changes  that depends on the performance of other funds as well. But the overall 
value of plan will always comprise 100% of the funds within it although that split will 
inevitably vary over time.
And Mr Cs example within his complaint supports the explanation that as the value of each 
fund changes depending on investment performance, their overall split within the plan 
changes as well  so that as one falls another rises to ensure the overall percentage of the 
funds constitutes 100% of the plan value.
I know Mr C thinks the percentage of each fund should remain constant, but this isnt 
possible when they are invested, and their values can fall or rise. But importantly it isnt 
Avivas administration thats controlling these fluctuations but the investment markets and 
their effect on each funds value  which isnt something Aviva can control.
So, I hope I can reassure Mr C that Im satisfied the value of his plan is directly related to the 
value of each fund at any given time and the sum of those funds equates to 100% of his 
plan. Im satisfied Aviva hasnt tampered with his funds and that it is outside factors that 
have altered the percentage value of his funds within the plan. Mr C should be reassured 
that no fraudulent activity has taken place on his pension plan.
Mr C also referred to the variation in the number of each units within the funds  which he 
thought shouldnt have happened. He said that as he hasnt made any further contributions 
to his plan the number of units should remain the same. I asked Aviva to explain this 
situation and its provided an annual statement, which includes the plan charges, from 
January 2021. The unit statement showed that a total of £7.72 was taken from the plan in 
charges over the previous year, and in order to collect these fees a deduction was made 
from the units of each fund. Thats because each fund had different charges levied on it. So, 
for example, one of the funds had £6.53 worth of charges deducted from the units, which 
meant that a total of 2.74 units from that fund were cancelled and so Mr Cs unit holding fell 
slightly.
In my experience this is a common way for a provider to deduct charges from an investment 
and it explains why the number of units will vary from time to time. In any case, Im satisfied 
with Avivas explanation and I think it reasonably demonstrates why the number of units in 
Mr Cs plan has varied. 
Ive also taken the opportunity to calculate the percentage of each fund that Mr C held within 
the plan as of 13 January 2021. Those percentages are 9.8, 4.8 and 85.4% which add up to 100% of his plan value. I note that these percentages are different to the split that Mr C 
began with  and Ive explained why that is above, but I also note that the current value of 
the plan is higher than it was during 2020. So, I cant agree with Mr Cs point about the value 
of his plan falling in line with his belief that the funds were being altered. 
I think its an unfortunate coincidence if the value of the plan did fall over this period and 
there were many other reasons why the value may have fallen during that time. But I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that it was as a result of Aviva making any changes to the 
percentage split of the funds. 
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has shown that its offer of £50 compensation for the 
distress cause by the time it took to answer Mr Cs complaint has been paid and the cheque 
cashed.
So I dont think it needs to anything further here and I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman