DRN-2596315
The complaint
Miss M complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss M under a hire purchase agreement with Northridge 
Finance that she signed in August 2019. She returned the car to the dealer in September 
2019 (twice), December 2019 and March 2020 because of issues with its diesel particulate 
filter. The diesel particulate filter was regenerated each time, but not in March 2020, and the 
car has been with the dealer since then.
Miss M complained to Northridge Finance and it said that it was unable to progress her 
complaint unless she provided it with an independent report about the issues with the car, 
which she says she couldnt afford to do. She wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She said that the car 
was faulty and of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M because of the 
issues with the diesel particulate filter. She recommended that Northridge Finance should: 
end the agreement and collect the car; refund Miss Ms deposit of £3,000 (and if any of the 
deposit included a dealers contribution or manufacturers allowance, it should be deducted 
from the deposit and any negative equity from the old agreement should also be deducted 
from that amount); refund 15% of the monthly payments for the lack of enjoyment and 
impaired usage experienced by Miss M; pay interest on those refunds; pay £150 for any 
trouble and upset thats been caused due to the ongoing faults with the car; and remove any 
adverse information from Miss Ms credit file in relation to the agreement.
Northridge Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
the dealer has advised that in a six month period the car had only completed 2,000 
miles and when it was returned to it the diesel particulate filter was blocked so forced 
regenerations were required;
it offered to cover the costs of an inspection if it showed that the diesel particulate 
filter was defective, but Miss M declined its offer;
the order form, which was signed by Miss M, says: The vehicle being purchased is 
fitted with a Diesel Particulate Filter. Vehicles with a DPF driven at low speeds in 
urban traffic can require periodic trips at higher speeds to clear out the DPF; and 
theres no material evidence in support of Miss Ms claim so she shouldnt be able to 
reject the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Northridge Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss M was about four years old, had been driven for 
38,465 miles and had a price of £17,738;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
its clear that there was an issue with the cars diesel particulate filter only a few 
weeks after the car was supplied to Miss M and the dealer regenerated the filter - its 
job card shows that the cars mileage was 38,468 at that time and its invoice shows 
that the cars mileage was 38,465 when it was supplied to Miss M - so the filter 
needed to be regenerated even though Miss M had only driven three miles in the car;
the car had another issue with its diesel particulate filter only three weeks later and 
the filter was again regenerated by the dealer  its job card shows that the cars 
mileage at that time was 39,778 so in three weeks the car had been driven for 1,310 
miles;
Miss M returned the car to the dealer in December 2019 when its mileage was 
41,817 and the diesel particulate filter was regenerated for a third time; 
she says that she didnt use the car between December 2019 and February 2020 but 
when she used it in February 2020 there was another issue with the diesel particulate 
filter and Miss M said that she wanted to reject the car - she returned the car to the 
dealer again in March 2020 but a replacement filter wasnt approved;
I dont consider it to be reasonable for a car of this age and mileage to have so many 
issues with its diesel particulate filter in the first seven months after it was supplied 
and having driven 4,433 miles in that time;
the diesel particulate filter needed regenerating after Miss M had only used the car to 
drive three miles and its been regenerated twice more since then but there continues 
to be an issue with it;
after Miss M had complained to it about the car, Northbridge Finance offered to cover 
the costs of an inspection if it showed that the diesel particulate filter was defective  
but Miss M says that she couldnt afford to pay for an inspection and the car has 
been with the dealer since March 2020 so Northridge Finance could have arranged 
for it to independently inspected since then if it had wanted to do so;
I consider it to be more likely than not that theres a fault with the cars diesel 
particulate filter which was present when the car was supplied to Miss M  and that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of the fault; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Miss M to be 
able to reject the car and for Northridge Finance to take the actions described below.Putting things right
I find that Northridge Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected from Miss M  both at no cost to her. I find that it should also remove any 
information about the agreement that its recorded on Miss Ms credit file.
The invoice for the car shows that Miss M paid a deposit of £300 for the car and that a 
further amount of £2,700 was due from her - so a total of £3,000. It also shows that Miss M 
part-exchanged a car which had a value of £10,000 and the dealer settled outstanding 
finance of £11,859.48 on that car  so the dealer paid £1,859.48 more than the value of the 
car to settle the finance.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Miss M made an advance payment of £1,140.52 
(which is £3,000 less the £1,859.48). I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Northridge 
Finance to refund the advance payment of £1,140.52 to Miss M, with interest (but not any 
more of the total amount that she paid to the dealer).
Miss M was able to use the car to drive about 4,433 miles between August 2019, when it 
was supplied to her, and February 2020, when she asked to reject it. I consider that its fair 
and reasonable for Miss M to pay for the use that shes had from the car  but her use and 
enjoyment of it will have been impacted by the issues with the diesel particulate filter. I 
consider that she should have been allowed to reject the car in February 2020. Shes 
continued making monthly payments under the agreement for the car but I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to refund to her all of those payments that 
shes made since she asked to reject the car in February 2020, with interest. 
I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to 
refund to Miss M 15% of the monthly payments that she made between August 2019 and 
February 2020, with interest, as compensation for her loss of use and enjoyment of the car. 
It can keep the remaining proportion of her monthly payments as payment for the use that 
shes had from the car. 
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss M. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to pay her £150 to compensate her for 
that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and I order N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as 
Northridge Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss M  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Miss M the advance payment of £1,140.52 that she made for the car.
3. Refund to Miss M the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement 
since February 2020 when she asked to reject the car.
4. Refund to Miss M 15% of the monthly payments that she made under the 
agreement between August 2019 and February 2020 as compensation for her 
loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.6. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that its 
recorded on Miss Ms credit file.
7. Pay £150 to Miss M to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Northridge Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Northridge Finance must give Miss M a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman