DRN-3121008
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) recorded a second claim and charged 
her a second excess for an escape of water which she thinks was caused by an inadequate 
repair. 
The buildings insurance was held by the freeholder of an apartment building. As the 
leaseholder of one of the properties, and beneficiary of the insurance cover, Ms K is an 
eligible complainant, so Ill refer only to her throughout my decision. Any reference to actions 
by AXA includes those of its agents.
What happened
Briefly, Ms K returned from a week away to find water had escaped from the storage tank 
and damaged her home. AXA accepted her claim and covered the cost of repairing the 
damage. She made a separate claim for her carpet under her contents insurance policy.
Over a year later, the same thing happened. Ms K thought it was because AXA hadnt 
completed an effective repair the first time, but AXA said it was a different cause.
AXA agreed to cover the cost of repairing the damage again, but said it would be dealt with 
as a second claim, attract a second excess, and she would need to claim again for her 
carpet. Ms K didnt agree that it was a second claim.
Our investigator initially upheld Ms Ks complaint but, on further consideration, she thought 
that AXA had provided enough evidence to show that the second escape of water had a 
different cause. Our investigator thought AXA had made a fair settlement offer for the 
damage, and its offer of £250 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. But she 
thought it was fair that AXA recorded a second claim.
Ms K didnt agree, in part because she thought AXA was using technical plumbing terms to 
hide the fact that it hadnt completed an effective repair.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Ms Ks complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The overriding issue in dispute is whether the cause of the escape of water was the same 
for both claims and whether it should be considered as one claim or two. Theres no 
dispute that the damage was covered under the policy.
Original claim
AXA identified a faulty ball valve and overflow from the water tank. Simply, there was too 
much water going into the tank and it wasnt overflowing properly. It seems that when Ms K 
was at home, her general use of the facilities meant the water didnt have the chance to 
build up to overflowing point. But, when she went away for a week, the tank overflowed 
and caused the damage. AXA fixed the fault and confirmed in an email to Ms K that she 
could go ahead and arrange for redecoration. AXA made it clear to her that no further 
repair was needed and reassured her that the same thing wouldnt happen again if she 
went away.
At this point, Im satisfied that Ms K reasonably understood the claim was settled and the 
damage had been fully repaired.
Second escape of water
The same type of damage happened again when Ms K was away from home for just over 
a week. While AXA says it was a new fault and, therefore, a new claim, I dont agree for 
the following reasons:
The description of the first repair in AXAs 2019 report doesnt rule out the possibility 
that it was also the cause of the second escape of water.
AXAs 2019 report confirms the first repair was to the ball valve and overflow pipe  its 
2020 report confirms the second claim was caused by a fault with the ball valve and 
overflow pipe. 
The second incident happened the next time the ball valve and overflow pipe were 
needed to serve their purpose  so that was the first time the effectiveness of the repair 
was tested.
Although the incidents were 16 months apart, Ms K didnt leave her home for any 
length of time which wouldve allowed the water to build up in the tank. Therefore, the 
gap between events cant reasonably be considered evidence of an effective and 
lasting repair.
So, I think AXA should treat Ms Ks claim as an extension of the first claim because, on 
balance, its more likely than not that the damage resulted from an ineffective repair.
Before I move on, I think its worth pointing out that the policy includes cover for Trace and 
Access, as follows:
27) Trace and Access 
Where the buildings have suffered damage or in the opinion of a competent professional 
there is a reasonable possibility of damage resulting from the escape of gas oil water or 
sewage into the premises the Insurer(s) will pay 
i) the costs necessarily and reasonably incurred in 
a) locating the source whether on the premises or not 
b) repairing and making good any damage including that caused in locating the source of 
the escape of gas oil water or sewage  
I agree that AXA wasnt responsible for completing a lasting repair under the terms of the 
policy, and Ms K is also aware of that. But, AXA told her it had fixed the cause of the 
escape of water and she could go ahead with redecorating. That was even after she 
specifically checked whether she needed to arrange for a lasting repair, and asked for 
reassurance that the same thing wouldnt happen again if she went away for a week. So, 
while it wasnt responsible for carrying out a lasting repair, in confirming that it had done 
so, AXA became responsible for it. Therefore, I think its also responsible for making good 
the damage caused by the second escape of water. 
Putting matters right
Im satisfied that AXA covered the cost of repairing the damage for the first incident, apart 
from the carpet which Ms K claimed under her contents insurance. To put matters right, Id 
need to be sure that Ms K hasnt incurred any unnecessary costs as a result of the second 
escape of water.AXA agreed to settle a second claim for the damage and deducted the policy excess of 
£1,500. There are two unnecessary losses here  the policy excess and the record of a 
second claim. My provisional decision in respect of these losses is that AXA should refund 
to Ms K the policy excess of £1,500 and remove the record of a second claim because it 
can reasonably be considered an extension of the original claim. 
Ms Ks carpet was damaged in both incidents. The first time she claimed under her 
contents policy and she had a new carpet fitted. The new carpet was damaged during the 
second incident, which AXA said would be covered under her contents policy again. I have 
two issues with this:
the new carpet wouldnt have been damaged if AXA had completed an effective and 
lasting repair, therefore the cost of the damage can be directly attributed to AXA, and
Ms K shouldnt be expected to incur the cost of a second excess under her contents 
policy or the impact a second claim might have on the assessment of risk for 
subsequent policies.
To put this right, I think AXA should cover the cost of the second carpet.
Compensation
AXA offered Ms K £250 compensation for inconvenience and distress caused. Ms K hasnt 
asked for any more compensation as she simply wants the matter resolved. While Ive 
provisionally decided that AXA is responsible for the second incident, I think its done 
enough to acknowledge the additional inconvenience and upset caused. Thats because, 
in addition to the offer of £250, it also agreed to cover the cost of a replacement water 
storage system which Ms K had installed to fix the problem. I think thats fair in the 
circumstances, so I wont be asking AXA to increase its offer.
Overall, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the second escape of water was 
directly linked to the first, and well-known restrictions on leaving the home led to the 16-
month gap before the ineffectiveness of the repair was identified. So, I think its fair that 
AXA refunds the additional costs Ms K incurred for the new carpet and second policy 
excess, along with compensation of £250 for the inconvenience and upset she 
experienced.
I said I was intending to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
refund to Ms K the policy excess of £1,500;
remove the record of a second claim because it can reasonably be considered an 
extension of the original claim;
reimburse Ms K the cost of the second carpet, and
pay compensation of £250 for the inconvenience and upset caused, as previously 
offered, if it hasnt already done so.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AXA didnt respond.
Ms K accepted my provisional decision but confirmed that she hadnt yet received any 
payment from AXA.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms K accepted my provisional decision, and AXA made no further comment, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
However, I will clarify that AXA should, if it hasnt already, reimburse Ms K for the work shes 
already done and for which AXA had already agreed to pay. Thats because I took its offers 
into account, as I explained in my provisional decision, and my decision was based on the 
understanding that it would complete those offers in addition to the requirements Ive made 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Ks 
complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
refund to Ms K the policy excess of £1,500;
remove the record of a second claim because it can reasonably be considered an 
extension of the original claim;
reimburse Ms K the cost of the second carpet, and
pay compensation of £250 for the inconvenience and upset caused, as previously 
offered, if it hasnt already done so.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman