DRN-1679013
The complaint
Mr T complains about the poor handling of a claim he made on his motor insurance policy by  
Ageas Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr Ts car was damaged in an accident whilst it was parked and unattended. He told Ageas 
he thought the damage was done by a council refuse vehicle or recycling lorry. 
Mr T said neighbours heard the noise of a collision at the precise time such vehicles had 
passed closely by his car, although no-one saw what happened. Mr T wasnt happy that 
initially, Ageas decided to write the car off, which caused a delay in dealing with his claim. 
And as Ageas didnt think there was enough evidence for it to pursue another party, Mr T 
was left with a fault claim on his record thats likely to affect his future premiums.
In its response to Mr Ts complaint, Ageas acknowledged that there were delays at the start 
of the claims process. But it said after discussions with Mr T, it had changed its stance on 
writing the car off and had arranged for a garage to repair it. Ageas also pointed out that it 
had paid Mr T £150 compensation for the initial delays and for any resulting inconvenience. 
Initially, Ageas told the council and the recycling company that owned the vehicles that it 
held them at fault for the accident. Mr T then told Ageas that a representative of both  
organisations had visited his home together and had denied responsibility. He said his wife 
was assaulted by one of them during the meeting. 
The council later sent Ageas CCTV footage taken by the recycling firms cameras at the 
times its vehicles passed Mr Ts car. Ageas said it didnt think it showed any contact with his 
car. It also pointed out that, although Mr T had said there was a witness to the accident, he 
hadnt provided any more details. 
Mr T insisted that hed supplied the witnesss address and an account of her evidence 
(Ageas later accepted that hed given it her name and an account of what shed told him). 
Mr T said CCTV can be selective and can be misused. He said he had paint transfer from 
the other vehicle for Ageas to consider, plus photos of tyre tracks and of some refuse that 
was deposited close to his car. He said Ageas should have carried out more investigations. 
Mr Ts view was that it wasnt only a matter of the cost of the incident to him. He said there 
was a public safety issue. In his view, the vehicles driver might need help (to prevent further 
incidents) and hed probably committed a criminal offence by leaving the scene. 
 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint. She thought Ageas had dealt with the 
repair of Mr Ts car and the delays fairly. She said there was no evidence to show that Mr T 
had provided the witnesss full details to Ageas as requested (or those of a potential second 
witness). And as Mr T had told Ageas that neither witness saw a collision, she didnt think it 
was unreasonable for it not to pursue the issue further anyway. 
The investigator said Ageas thought viewing CCTV footage might assist with the claim and 
would be more useful than the timed stills Mr T had provided. She said shed also reviewed 
the CCTV footage. She didnt think it showed any contact with his car  or that one of the 
lorries took 13 minutes to get around the corner close to where Mr Ts car was parked, as he 
thought the stills showed. She thought it was fair for Ageas to deal with the claim as it did, 
given the content of the footage. 
Mr T pointed out that a senior council official (Ms A) had told him in writing that she didnt 
think the CCTV footage was clear enough and that shed like to talk to Mr Ts witness. He 
said that destroyed the sole defence to his claim  which was that, since there were no 
witnesses, the CCTV footage must be relied on. Mr T said when the councils position 
shifted, the case for Ageas shifted too. He said it should support him further, both on the 
claim (by interviewing the witness) and with the incident of assault on his wife.
  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Ageas acted reasonably in reconsidering its decision to write off Mr Ts car and in 
paying him £150 compensation for delay and inconvenience.
In deciding whether to pursue a third party to recoup its losses and whether to argue a case 
in court, Ageas has to assess first of all whether theres a reasonable prospect of success in 
doing so. All insurers take that approach in dealing with claims. 
In this case, unfortunately Mr T faces increased premiums in the future, even though he did 
nothing wrong in parking his car where it was when it was damaged. Whilst its 
understandable that hes unhappy about that, I think Mr T has made it very clear that his 
focus is public safety. He thinks if a driver involved in any type of public service drives in 
such a way as to cause an accident  and then drives on  that person may well cause 
much more serious damage in the future if appropriate action isnt taken. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr T feels about this issue. He thinks if Ageas had supported his 
case, it would have meant the driver who caused the damage would have been identified, so 
his actions (and the cause of them) might then have been addressed. He also thinks the 
assault on his wife might have been taken more seriously. I can see why Mr T reached those  
conclusions, although he cant be sure the expected outcomes would have been achieved. 
Regardless of that, I think it was fair for Ageas to focus on the evidence about the accident 
before deciding what action it should take. Mr T had provided the name of a witness - but he 
told Ageas she didnt see what happened (nor did a potential second witness). So I think it 
was reasonable for it to conclude that the witnesss account of events would be of little value 
should it try to pursue action against the council or its contractor.  
Mr T thinks the circumstantial evidence points to the involvement of a recycling vehicle in the 
accident, and I understand why thats his view. But I can see why Ageas thought it wasnt 
enough and pushed for access to the CCTV footage. Having seen the footage myself, I think 
it was fair for Ageas to decide it didnt show any contact between a lorry and Mr Ts car. 
Mr T says as Ms A thought the footage wasnt clear enough, that should make a difference 
to Ageass decision. But in my opinion, Ageas cant be expected to disregard its own view 
because of an opinion held by someone from another organisation. And although I dont 
think Ms As view is relevant to whether Ageas acted reasonably, I think its fair to say that she had reservations about not having seen a judder from the camera in the vehicle or a 
reaction from the driver on the footage.
Ms A said shed have expected to see that had there been an impact. She also said that 
before concluding her investigation, shed like to contact Mr Ts witness. It seems that didnt 
happen, but as the witness didnt see the accident anyway, I think her evidence is unlikely to 
have helped Ms A.
In my opinion, Ageas dealt with Mr Ts claim reasonably. It agreed to repair his car and 
compensated him for delays. I think it carried out a reasonable investigation into the accident 
by considering Mr Ts arguments about the cause of the damage, looking at the screen shots 
and viewing the CCTV footage. In the absence of evidence from a witness who actually saw 
the incident, I think that was all Ageas could reasonably be expected to do. 
 
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, especially given the strength of his 
feelings about public safety and his distress about the assault on his wife. But as I dont think 
Mr T has been able to show that Ageas acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman