DRN-3949239
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was given incorrect information by Everyday Loans Limited about 
her loan account.
What happened
Miss S says she agreed to reduce her loan repayments to Everyday Loans before later 
increasing them to £100 a month. She says she asked Everyday Loans when her loan would 
end and was told it was due to end in June 2023 but now would finish about four months 
before that. Miss S says she later found out in May 2022 that the balance was much higher 
than she expected, and the loan would not end in early 2023 as she was told. She says 
Everyday Loans didnt update her address and would like the loan to be reworked to end as 
she was told.
Everyday Loans accepts it made a mistake by not updating Miss Ss address and by giving 
her incorrect information. Its offered £100 compensation but says annual statements 
showing the correct balance as well as end date were sent.
Miss S brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought the compensation offer 
appropriate and didnt think it fair that the loan be effectively written off. The investigator 
thought Miss S was liable for the loan.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and says she had no way of knowing the account balance 
without Everyday Loans telling her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Everyday Loans has made an 
appropriate compensation offer. I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Everyday Loans made a mistake by not updating Miss Ss 
address and more importantly in giving her incorrect information about the loan end date. I 
can see from Everyday Loans records that it clearly gave Miss S incorrect information at the 
end of 2020 which was not corrected until May 2022. I have no doubt Miss S was caused 
distress and inconvenience in finding out the information she had been given was incorrect. I 
accept she would have been disappointed to realise that a larger amount of the loan 
remained outstanding than she anticipated.
The main issue that I must consider is if its fair for me to direct the loan effectively be written 
off which is what Miss S would like to happen. Im satisfied that Miss S had the benefit of the 
money and entered into a contract with Everyday Loans to repay the amount she borrowed 
as well as interest. It follows that Im satisfied Miss S is contractually obliged to repay the 
debt and that it would not be proportionate or fair to order the loan now be written off or 
direct that it should end in early 2023 as Miss S suggests should have happened.
I appreciate Miss S says that had she known the correct position, she would have increased 
her monthly repayment to Everyday Loans. But I cant be sure that would have been the 
position as I can see Miss S had contracted to repay £264 a month but reduced that to less 
than £100 a month before increasing to £100 a month. I can also see that Miss S was in 
financial difficulties at the time as well as at the present time, so its difficult to be sure she 
would have been in a position to significantly increase the payments had she been given the 
correct information about the loan end date. 
Im satisfied the compensation offer is fair and reasonable for the incorrect information and 
failure to update the address details. I think it likely Miss S would have received an account 
statement in 2021 and ought to have had a general understanding of how much she owed.
Overall, I cant fairly direct this loan be written off or that Everyday Loans need take any 
further action in the circumstances of this complaint. If Miss S is in financial difficulties, then 
no doubt she will approach Everyday Loans about that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and find that Everyday 
Loans Limited has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £100 which it should 
now pay Miss S if she accepts this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman