DRN-3832652
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined her claim for 
subsidence/landslip damage to her garden and conservatory.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, UKIs position is that no subsidence/landlsip damage 
has been caused to the main home  which is a requirement for policy cover to engage.
Mrs A says UKIs investigations have been insufficient. She also says her expert report 
noted damage to her conservatory and that this has significantly worsened since UKIs claim 
decision.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought UKIs decision was correct. She said 
the evidence available didnt show that the main property had suffered from subsidence 
and/or landslip damage at the same time as the garden.
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that since UKIs final site visit, and its final response to Mrs As complaint, 
additional cracks to the conservatory have appeared. But I note that these cracks werent 
reported to UKI, and so it hasnt had the opportunity to investigate or comment on these.
This complaint focuses on the claim decision UKI made in February 2022 and its final 
response to Mrs As complaint in March 2022, based upon the evidence which was available 
at that time. So, that is what Im considering in this decision. In terms of the new cracking, 
Mrs A should report this to UKI to see whether that now changes its position on her claim. 
Should Mrs A remain unhappy with UKIs position following its consideration of this new 
evidence, then she may be able to bring a new complaint to our service  subject to our 
normal rules.
Secondly, its not in dispute that Mrs As garden and patio have suffered damage as a result 
of subsidence/landslip. The issue which remains to be decided is whether Mrs As home had 
suffered damage at the same time, and by the same cause (at the point in time Im 
considering as outlined above)  which is required for a successful claim under the relevant 
section of her policy.
Mrs As policy document sets out the scope of her cover for damage caused by subsidence, 
heave or landslip on page eight:
Subsidence or heave of the site on which your home stands, or landslip 
This includes cover for: 
solid floor slabs, but only if your homes foundations are damaged at the same 
time and by the same cause 
outdoor swimming pools, tennis courts, patios, terraces, service tanks, drains, 
septic tanks, pipes and cables, central heating fuel storage tanks, drives, 
footpaths, garden walls, hedges, gates or fences  but only if your home is 
damaged at the same time and by the same cause
And home is defined as
The main residence occupied by you, at the address shown in your schedule, 
including its domestic garages and outbuildings.
Based on the above, its clear there must be damage to the main home at the same time, 
and by the same cause, in order for Mrs As claim for her patio and garden to succeed.
When the claim was first raised in June 2021, Mrs A reported that there was no damage to 
the main property. So, at that stage, Im satisfied it was reasonable for UKI to advise there 
would be no cover.
Mrs A obtained her own structural engineers report in July 2021 and that engineer instructed 
a Slope Stability Assessment which took place in November 2021. Mrs A returned to UKI in 
December 2021 to progress her clam. 
In light of Mrs As reports, UKI appointed its own subsidence expert to attend the site. This 
expert commented directly on Mrs As reports and said:
The structural engineers report, commissioned by Mrs A in July 2021 makes no 
mention of damage to the conservatory with movement only affecting the patio and 
retaining walls. A geotechnical report dated November 2021 confirms damage to the 
patio and retaining walls but also mentions hairline cracks in the brick of the 
conservatory. However, following a recent site inspection of the property, we can 
confirm that the damage to the conservatory is simply an isolated crack to an 
individual brick of the conservatory dwarf wall externally, with no other cracking of 
any significance. This crack, restricted to a single brick, appears to be simply a 
thermal / moisture movement crack most likely to due to a defect in the brick itself or 
having occurred during the manufacture of the bricks or shortly after. No cracking 
was evident to the surrounding brickwork or mortar joints. 
The crack does not relate to movement of the slope, which appears to be occurring 
on a gradual / intermittent basis, as indicated in the geotechnical report 
commissioned by the policyholder.
I know Mrs A feels that UKI ought to investigate the conditions of her foundations. But given 
the damage reported and evident during the site visits, I dont think UKI needed to do this to 
reach a fair and reasonable decision on the claim. I say this because it instructed a suitably 
qualified expert to review Mrs As reports and to attend the site to inspect the damage 
reported to the conservatory. I think this was sufficient in the particular circumstances of this 
claim.Having considered the content of each of the reports, I find UKIs to be the most detailed and 
persuasive as to the amount of cracking to the conservatory and its likely cause. I say this 
because Mrs As first report, completed by a structural engineer and closest to the date the 
damage was reported, didnt mention any cracking to the conservatory whatsoever. And 
while the November 2021 report refers to four hairline cracks to the main body of the 
conservatory, only one is pictured, which is the one UKIs expert has considered above. I 
also note that no additional reasoning is given, within the November 2021 report, as to how 
they concluded cracking to conservatory had been caused by the subsidence/landslip. And 
assessment of the cracking doesnt appear to have been within the scope of the Slope 
Stability Assessment either.
So, taking into account the contents of each of the reports, Im not persuaded there was 
damage to the home (conservatory), caused by the subsidence/landslip, at the time Mrs A 
reported the damage to her garden. Im satisfied that UKI completed a suitably thorough 
investigation and that it reached a fair and reasonable decision on the claim, based on the 
weight of expert evidence available at the time. So, it follows that I dont uphold Mrs As 
complaint about UKIs claim decision  at the time it was made. 
Ill leave it to the parties to communicate with each other directly regarding the new cracking 
to the conservatory.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman