DRN-2390725
The complaint
Miss W complains that Digital Moneybox Limited (DML) failed to open a Lifetime ISA
(LISA) despite her submitting her application before her 40th birthday.
What happened
Miss W made an application for the LISA to DML via its app at just after 2am on Saturday,
21 September 2019. To open a LISA, you must be aged 18 or over but under 40. Miss Ws
40th birthday was Sunday, 22 September 2019.
Miss W says she assumed that the LISA had been opened as the DML app confirmed her
application, her account being opened and the acceptance of her initial contribution on 21
September 2019. However, when she later enquired about the accounts status, she was
told that DML hadnt been able to open the LISA. This was because the timings for how it
accepted direct debit payments meant that Miss Ws initial contribution wouldnt have been
made until after her 40th birthday, and so the HMRC ISA rules wouldnt allow a LISA to be
opened.
Miss W complained to DML, but it didnt feel it had done anything wrong. It explained that as
part of the account opening process a warning wouldve been given to alert Miss W to the
fact that she would have turned 40 before the account could be opened.
Miss W referred the complaint to this service. She was adamant that no warning had been
displayed when she went through the process and she questioned why an account had been
opened if she was not going to be able to contribute. She was also unhappy that it took DML
two months to issue its response to her complaint. She said that if shed known sooner that
the LISA hadnt been opened, she wouldve been able to apply for a Help to Buy ISA as an
alternative, but these had been closed to new accounts on 30 November 2019, a few weeks
prior to DML issuing its final response.
Our investigator also didnt think the complaint should be upheld and as Miss W didnt
accept this, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
DML has confirmed that its system features a warning to deal with situations such as 
Miss Ws, where its not going to be able to open the LISA prior to the applicants 40th 
birthday.
Its provided a copy of the screen prompt that says, Please note that you can only open a
Lifetime ISA if you are under 40. It goes on to say, Due to the Moneybox payment timings,
you will be 40 before we officially open your account with HMRC. And its confirmed that
testing on its system showed that the function was working, at the time of testing.
I recognise that Miss W has said she wasnt presented with this screen at any point. But, on
balance, given that DML has designed its system to work in the way described and has
confirmed its functionality, I think its more likely than not that the screen was displayed.
But even in the event that there was a technical error and it wasnt displayed, I dont think
DML acted incorrectly in not opening the LISA. I note that Miss W has questioned why it was
confirmed to her that an account was opened if the LISA application wasnt successful. But
its possible to make a transfer of an existing LISA, so someone older than 39 can still open
an account in order to accept a transfer  the age warning confirmed this. And I dont think
theres anything wrong with DMLs process by which it only accepts direct debit payments in
the middle of the week. Its entitled to operate its accounts as it wishes, provided it makes
clear how payments are taken, which I think it does.
Miss W has highlighted that general guidance concerning the opening of LISAs doesnt
indicate that a payment must be made for a LISA to be opened. But the HMRC Guidance
Notes for ISA Managers has some examples attached that suggest otherwise:
Investor turns 40 years old example
Mr Jones turns 40 years old on 20 April 2019. The latest date he can open a Lifetime
ISA and make his first payment is 19 April 2019.
Investor opens Lifetime ISA before turning 40 but makes first subscription after
turning 40 example
Mr Smith turns 40 on 10 May 2019. He makes an application to open a Lifetime ISA
on 8 May 2019, he decides to fund his account with monthly direct debit payments of
£200. However the first £200 payment into his account is made after his 40th.
Birthday on 15 May 2019. He did not open a valid Lifetime ISA before his 40th
Birthday
I think this shows that DML is correct in its assertion that a LISA is not officially opened until
payment is made into the account. And there simply wasnt enough time for this to happen in
Miss Ws case, even if DMLs direct debit process had been earlier than the following
Wednesday.
In respect of Miss Ws point about losing the opportunity to open a Help to Buy ISA as an
alternative, I also dont think thats DMLs responsibility. I understand Miss W didnt receive
the final response to her complaint until 20 December 2019. But I think it was clear to her as
early as 26 October 2019, when she made her complaint, that there might be a problem with
the LISA. At that point, with no money having been taken from her by DML, she couldve
mitigated the situation by opening a Help to Buy ISA in the meantime, prior to 30 November
2019. It is possible to hold both a Help to Buy ISA and a LISA simultaneously.
DML confirmed it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision. 
Miss W made some further points, in brief:
How could a reasonable person have known about the restriction on opening a LISA 
and the time restraints?
DML confirmed her payment and confused matters, meaning she only found out in 
December 2019 that the account hadnt been opened. 
The welcome pack issued by DML didnt mention that the account was only 
considered to be open once the direct debit was processed and payment made. 
The guidelines were vague, and little information was available to a layperson.
She still receives emails about the account, and everything indicated that it was 
opened.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
I note what Miss W has said about the lack of guidance on the opening of a LISA meaning 
that a reasonable person couldnt have been aware of the restrictions. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, I am satisfied, on balance, that DML took steps to display information 
as part of the account opening process that alerted applicants to the restrictions. 
And that information also indicated that an account could be opened if the applicant had 
reached age 40, if they intended to make a transfer in of an existing LISA. Which I assume is 
why the account was opened for Mis W and why DML discussed the account when she 
contacted it. DML wouldnt have known that it wasnt her intention to transfer in. Im satisfied 
that for a new account, where there isnt a transfer involved, the account is only formally 
opened once the initial payment is actually made.
I recognise that Miss W will be disappointed with my decision as she was clearly keen to be 
able to take advantage of the LISAs benefits. But, in all the circumstances, I dont think that 
DML acted incorrectly or unreasonably in respect of the account opening.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman