DRN-3148121
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited auto-renewed his motor insurance 
policy when he wanted it cancelled, and then added an entry for a missed payment to his 
credit record. He wants the record cleared and compensation for the extra costs hes 
incurred due to the entry. 
What happened
Mr Ws policy with Admiral came up for renewal but he found cheaper cover elsewhere. So 
Mr W cancelled his direct debit with Admiral, but he didnt tell it he didnt want to renew. 
Admiral renewed the policy and then chased Mr W for his premiums. When Mr W told 
Admiral hed found cheaper cover elsewhere, it backdated the cancellation of the policy to 
the renewal date. But it added an entry to his credit record for the missed payment. Mr W 
said this stopped him from getting a bank loan and cheaper credit. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
reasonable for Admiral to renew the policy and then to backdate the cancellation. He thought 
the entry on Mr Ws credit record was a true statement and so Admiral didnt need to remove 
it. And he thought Admiral wasnt responsible for the extra costs Mr W incurred in obtaining 
credit. 
Mr W replied that it should be easier to cancel an auto-renewal. He said hed spent long 
periods on hold when calling Admiral. He said it was otherwise difficult to contact it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated that he couldnt more easily contact Admiral and 
he couldnt get through on the phone when he wished to cancel the policy. I can see from 
the evidence hes provided that this has had a financial consequence for him. Our approach 
in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr W said hed received a renewal quote from Admiral, but he thought nothing of it as hed 
already cancelled his direct debit. But I can see that the renewal pack asked Mr W to call 
Admiral if he didnt want to renew his policy. Admiral said it doesnt allow cancellations to be 
made online for data protection reasons. Mr W said hed tried calling, but he was kept on 
hold. He also replied to the renewal email, even though this warned him not to as it wouldnt 
be picked up. 
So Admiral didnt know that Mr W wanted to cancel his policy as he had cover elsewhere. I 
think just cancelling his direct debit wouldnt be sufficient as a direct debit instruction can be 
cancelled for a variety of reasons. I can see that Admiral warned Mr W that his direct debit 
instruction had been cancelled and asked him to contact it. But he didnt. 
So Admiral renewed the policy, which I think was reasonable as it was making sure Mr S 
remained insured. But it was unable to collect the first premium payment. The renewal pack 
advised,
Unless you contact us we will automatically apply for your renewal premium from the 
payment details you have already provided, shortly after your renewal date. This is to make 
sure there is no interruption in your insurance cover.
Admiral then emailed and wrote to Mr W saying that it hadnt received the payment and it 
warned him it would issue a default notice if no payment was made. I cant see that Mr W 
responded to this. So Admiral then sent him a notice of default, again giving him a chance to 
pay. Mr W didnt reply so Admiral sent a notice of cancellation and then the cancellation 
letter. 
So I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably and gave Mr W many warnings of the 
consequences if he didnt contact it. When he complained, I think it reasonably backdated 
the cancellation to the renewal date as it saw that Mr W had alternative cover. And it stopped 
pursuing him for the debt.
But Admiral recorded a missed payment on Mr Ws credit record. Admiral has an obligation 
to make accurate records of its accounts. Its credit agreement with Mr W states:
Missing payment could have severe consequences such as:
i. We may cancel your insurance policy and use any refund of premium to repay the amount 
you owe us
ii. We may report your defaults with credit reference agencies which will make obtaining 
credit in future more difficult
At the time it recorded the missed payment, Im satisfied that Mr W had indeed missed a 
payment as the policy had renewed due to his not contacting Admiral to cancel it. I think 
Admiral acted in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. So I dont require Admiral to 
remove the marker from Mr Ws record. And, as I dont think Admiral acted incorrectly, I cant 
hold it responsible for the consequences for Mr W. Therefore I dont require Admiral to pay 
Mr W any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman