DRN-3206936
The complaint
Mr P complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr P was given two loans by Loans 2 Go. Mr P first borrowed £250 in September 2018 that 
he agreed to repay in 18 monthly instalments. Around six months later, in March 2019, Mr P 
refinanced his original loan and took some additional borrowing. His second loan was for 
£300, and he also agreed to repay that loan in 18 monthly instalments. Mr P has faced 
problems meeting his repayments on the second loan and his outstanding balance has been 
transferred to a third-party debt collection company.
When Mr P complained to Loans 2 Go it explained to him why it didnt think it had been 
wrong to provide either loan. But, as a gesture of goodwill, Loans 2 Go offered to reduce 
Mr Ps outstanding balance by £560.56. Mr P didnt accept that offer and brought his 
complaint to this Service.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the checks 
Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the first loan showed that Mr P was facing serious problems 
managing his money. And he thought those problems persisted at the time the second loan 
was agreed. So our investigator didnt think either loan should have been agreed, and asked 
Loans 2 Go to pay Mr P some compensation.
Loans 2 Go accepted our investigators findings in relation to the second loan. But it still 
thought it had been reasonable to give the first loan to Mr P. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr P accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ps complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave these loans to Mr P required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr P undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr P.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr P before it agreed each loan. It asked him 
for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It then used some industry data and 
the results of the credit check to revise Mr Ps declared expenditure upwards. And it verified 
his income using a third-party checking service.
Each time Mr P was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He would need 
to make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was right that 
Loans 2 Go wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Mr Ps financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive 
described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think Loans 2 Gos checks were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
From the information it gathered I think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that 
the results of its checks suggested that Mr P might be able to afford his loan repayments. 
But I dont think that was the only information that Loans 2 Go needed to consider from the 
results of the checks. I think it would have been important for Loans 2 Go to consider 
whether it was likely that Mr P would be able to make his repayments in a sustainable 
manner  that is from his normal income and/or savings, without the need to borrow further.There was no indication that Mr Ps circumstances had changed, or were about to change, 
at the time he took either loan. So I think what had happened with his finances in the months 
leading up to the loan would be a reasonable indication of what was likely to happen in the 
future. And given the size of each of the loans I dont think that Loans 2 Go had any 
reasonable expectation that its lending would be used to consolidate any other debts.
The credit check results, at the time of the first loan, showed that Mr P was heavily reliant on 
credit. He had at least eight other active credit accounts, many of which had been opened in 
the year before the loan. And he also had a significant number of closed short-term loans - in 
the three months before this loan was taken hed settled at least four other loans. So I think 
that paints a very clear picture of someone who was facing serious problems managing their 
money. I think Loans 2 Go should have determined that it was highly likely that Mr P was 
needing to borrow in order to meet his day to day living costs, as well as repaying the 
borrowing that he had outstanding. I can see no reason why Loans 2 Go should have 
concluded that pattern wouldnt continue after its loan had been granted. So giving Mr P the 
loan would only serve to further increase his debt burden.
Mr P asked to refinance his loan after just six months of the agreed term. I think that in itself 
might have caused some concern to Loans 2 Go. But the credit check results showed a 
further, and significant, deterioration in Mr Ps finances. By that time he had at least 16 other 
active accounts. And he had continued to borrow and repay new short-term loans regularly 
throughout the time he held his first loan. Although he appeared to have met his repayments 
on time, it seems unlikely that he did so in a sustainable manner  its far more likely that 
Mr P only met his agreed repayments by taking further borrowing from other lenders.
So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have given either loan to Mr P. I think that the results of 
its credit checks should have indicated the serious problems that Mr P was facing managing 
his money. Loans 2 Go needs to pay Mr P some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr P in September 2018 or 
March 2019. So Loans 2 Go should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr P paid on the first loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat all the 
payments Mr P made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ps loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mr P effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ps loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans 2 Go can use the total refund for the first loan (after the deduction of tax) to 
offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind 
Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr Premove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to both 
loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
The redress I have set out above in relation to loan 2 assumes that Loans 2 Go is able to 
take back that debt from the third party. If Loans 2 Go is unable, or unwilling, to do this it 
must ensure that its interest and charges on both loans, and any other interest and charges 
added by the third party, are refunded to Mr P so he can choose whether to use the 
compensation to settle his debt directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman