DRN-2525480
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Secure Trust Bank Plc terminated a hire purchase agreement he took 
out for a car. He says too that the car was not of satisfactory quality when he took delivery of 
it and that it was not provided with an MOT certificate as he had been promised. Secure 
Trust Bank Plc trades in this case as Moneyway. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement for a car. He was to pay 
£173.18 a month for 59 months. 
Mr B had some difficulty in making payments on time, in part because his employer changed 
the date on which he was paid. Payments in June and July 2019 were made late and those 
for August and September were not made and remained outstanding when Mr B called 
Moneyway in September 2019. Mr B agreed to make full payment of his arrears by 30 
September, but in the event did not do so.
Moneyway sent Mr B a default notice and on 9 October Mr B got in touch again. He 
explained that he was starting a new job and that his pay day was changing. He would, he 
said, make a payment on 16 October, although he wasnt sure how much he would be able 
to pay.
Mr B was unable to pay in full. A default notice was issued and the agreement terminated. 
Mr B disputed the termination; Moneyway agreed it had made an error and reversed the 
termination.
In the course of discussing the termination, Moneyway says that Mr B agreed to make a 
payment on 25 November but didnt do so until a day later. Mr B says he did not agree to 
this, and Moneyway logged a complaint. Mr B then said that, when hed taken delivery of the 
car, he found out that it did not have a new MOT certificate. The car needed some repairs 
before a certificate could be issued; Mr B arranged for these to be carried out at his own 
expense.      
Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He concluded  having listened to recordings of calls between Moneyway and Mr 
B  that Mr B had indeed agreed to make a payment on 25 November 2019 and that 
Moneyway had explained the consequences if that didnt happen. He concluded that 
Moneyway was entitled to end the hire purchase agreement. 
As far as the repairs to the car were concerned, the investigator said he would consider 
asking Moneyway to reimburse Mr B for the costs but that he would need evidence of the 
work done. Since Mr B had not provided any, he could not make that recommendation. 
Overall, the investigator concluded that Moneyways offer of £100 for wrongly ending the 
agreement the first time was fair. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. He made the following additional points:
Moneyway had made no representations to his bank when payments were not made. 
He was the most pro-active in trying to sort matters out and calls were not returned as 
they should have been.
He did not accept that he had agreed to make a payment on or before 25 November 
2019.
He did not seek to make a complaint, Moneyway took that decision.
After the car was returned, he was not kept informed about the sale.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions here. I think that Moneyway did explain that it 
expected Mr B to make a payment on or before 25 November 2019 and that he agreed that 
he would do so. 
I also agree that it would not be fair to ask Moneyway to refund the cost of repairs without 
evidence of what work was done and why. I note that Mr B didnt raise that issue until a year 
after he took delivery of the car and had driven it several thousand miles. 
I will however comment briefly on Mr Bs further points.
Mr B had set up a direct debit to make the monthly payments. Moneyway was therefore 
obliged to tell him in advance of taking a payment. If however it was unable to take a 
payment (because, for example, there were insufficient funds in the account), it had no duty 
to follow that up with Mr Bs bank. Indeed, Mr Bs bank would not have been able to discuss 
Mr Bs account with Moneyway.
Mr B says that he was more proactive than Moneyway in trying to sort matters out. Since he 
was the party who was making payments of money he owed, that is not surprising. 
Generally, its for a person who owes money to make arrangements to do so, not for the 
payee to pursue payment.
Financial businesses are obliged under regulators rules to treat any expression of 
dissatisfaction alleging financial loss as a complaint. In the circumstances, I can see why 
Moneyway felt it should offer to deal with Mr Bs concerns as a complaint in this case.
I would not expect Moneyway to have told Mr B about the sale process until it was 
completed and it knew what was outstanding under the hire purchase agreement. I think it 
was reasonable too for Moneyway to tell Mr B what it thought was due, even while this 
service was considering his complaint. 
Mr B has said however that he thinks the car was sold for less than it should have been. 
That is not an issue that this service has been asked to address, however, and I make no 
comment on it. If Mr B wishes to take that matter up with Moneyway, he remains free to do 
so.
In conclusion, however, I believe that Moneyways offer of £100 is fair in the circumstances.         
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont require Secure Trust Bank Plc to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman