DRN-4081337
The complaint
Mr S complains about what happened when his fixed term savings ISA with Nationwide 
Building Society matured. He said Nationwide failed to give him effective notice of the 
maturity date, and wrongly moved his money into a lower interest account. 
What happened
Mr S had a fixed interest rate, fixed term cash savings ISA, which was due to mature in 
October 2022. Mr S had thought the maturity date was in November. He missed the maturity 
date, and his savings were moved into a lower interest ISA for a while. 
Mr S accepts that he received documents from Nationwide before his account matured, but 
he said he didnt read them in full, and he didnt see what date the account was due to 
mature. So Mr S didnt realise the date was actually in mid-October. 
Mr S complains that Nationwide didnt do enough to alert him to the maturity date. He said 
this should have been displayed prominently on the first page of the multi-page letter that 
Nationwide sent. And he also complained that he didnt receive an email from Nationwide, 
telling him when his ISA had matured.
Mr S said he contacted Nationwide in November, to ask about the ISA. It said then that the 
account had already matured, and his money had been moved into a lower interest ISA. 
Mr S also complains that Nationwide did this without his agreement. 
Mr S has now moved his money back into a high interest ISA. But he said he lost about £77 
in interest during the time that his money was in the lower interest account. Mr S said this 
was a scam, akin to fraud, because Nationwide had buried information on his maturity date 
on the third page of its letter. 
Mr S complained, and he said Nationwide just told him it had written to him, the information 
he needed was on the third page of that pack, and he should have read this. Mr S said this 
was insulting and patronising. He wrote again, and Nationwide told him that its maturity letter 
had also told him that if it didnt hear from him, then his account would move to a different 
ISA product, with a rate of interest set out in that letter. Nationwide said it had fed back 
Mr Ss view that it should put the maturity date on the first page. But it wouldnt uphold his 
complaint.
Mr S wanted Nationwide to pay the interest hed missed out on while his money was in a 
lower interest account. And he wanted it to pay compensation for having to make and pursue 
this complaint. 
When this complaint came to our service, Nationwide repeated that it didnt think it had made 
a mistake. Nationwide told us about a number of ways it had alerted Mr S to the maturity 
date of his ISA, including the third page of the maturity letter it sent to him on 23 September. 
It told our service that it could see this letter was printed on 24 September, so it was issued 
promptly.
Nationwide also showed our service the Key Facts which summarise the conditions of 
Mr Ss ISA. Those say that after the fixed term ends, money will be transferred into an 
instant access cash ISA.
Nationwide said it wouldnt pay Mr S the interest he felt hed missed out on. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S had been 
notified that his account was maturing, and it wasnt wrong for Nationwide to move his 
money into a lower interest account. 
Mr S replied in detail, to say he wasnt happy with the view. He said that it wasnt easy to find 
the maturity date from the letter Nationwide sent. He said this information was critical, and 
needed to be prominently displayed on the first page. Mr S thought this was deliberately 
hidden from him, and he felt that Nationwide accepting his feedback on this was an 
admission he was deceived. 
Mr S also said he didnt think Nationwide was entitled to move his savings to a lower interest 
account. He said that was illegal and unfair, and he said he shouldnt lose the ISA wrapper 
by moving his money to a lower interest account. He said it was unreasonable to have to rely 
on the initial documents to know the maturity date. And he repeated that he didnt get any 
notification when his account actually did mature.
Mr S said he wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so this case came to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different conclusion on this complaint to our investigator, and I think Mr Ss 
complaint should be upheld in part. That revised conclusion has been discussed informally 
with both sides, with representations received from both on my proposed resolution, so I will 
respond formally to those representations and finalise my decision here.
I think this complaint covers two points, one is the notice Mr S got about his ISA maturing, 
and the other is what Nationwide did, when it moved his money into an instant access ISA 
which earned a lower rate of interest. 
Id like to start with that second point. Mr S said Nationwide had no right to move his money 
into a lower interest account once his ISA had matured. Our investigator noted Nationwide 
told Mr S in its account maturity letter what would happen to his money next, if he didnt 
respond to the letter. But I think its important that this wasnt the first time Nationwide had 
said this to Mr S.
Nationwide has shown our service the Key Facts which summarise the conditions of Mr Ss 
fixed term ISA. And those say this- 
After the fixed term ends (maturity) your money will be transferred into an instant 
access cash ISA. The terms and conditions and the interest rate applicable to that 
account, at that time, will apply. We will personally notify you before making this 
transfer.I think that those key facts are consistent with the contents of the cover letter that Nationwide 
sent to Mr S, when he opened his account on 12 April 2021, said this 
When your Member Exclusive Fixed Rate ISA comes to an end, we'll write to you with 
your options. If we don't hear from you, we'll transfer your balance to a Fixed Term ISA 
Maturity account.
So I think that, under the agreement Mr S initially made with Nationwide for this ISA, he had 
already agreed what would happen to his money once the fixed term account matured. It 
would be moved to a different ISA  specifically set up to receive the funds of maturing fixed 
term ISAs. Nationwide did say that account wouldnt have any restrictions on accessing the 
money. But I dont think that Nationwide offered any commitment that this would be a high 
interest rate account, and I dont think that it was unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide to 
move this to a lower interest account, which allowed instant access. 
Instant access accounts do often carry a lower rate of interest than accounts which have 
restrictions on deposits or withdrawals. But moving Mr Ss money there, importantly, then 
allowed Mr S to choose whether he wanted to tie up his funds with Nationwide again 
(accepting restrictions on his funds in order to secure a higher rate of interest) or use the 
money, or move it elsewhere. 
Nationwide did say that it would retain the funds within an ISA wrapper, so Mr S wouldnt 
lose the benefit of the tax-free status of these funds. And I can see it did so. So, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it moved Mr Ss 
money into this account.
Id now like to look at the question of the notice Mr S was given about the maturity of his ISA. 
When this complaint came to me, it was clear that Nationwide had fixed quite precisely in 
time when Mr Ss ISA maturity letter was sent to him. That was on 24 September. And his 
fixed term account matured on 12 October. 
So Nationwide sent Mr S a letter to tell him about a change to his fixed term savings 
account, more than 14 days before the account matured. In these circumstances, 
Nationwide also needed to send a reminder to Mr S within 14 days of the change to his 
account. 
I hadnt seen that reminder, so I asked Nationwide if it could show us that. And I said if it 
couldnt, then it might like to think about paying Mr S the interest he missed out on, plus 
£100 in compensation. I thought then that this would provide a fair outcome to the complaint, 
if Mr S hadnt received the more recent reminder that his account was maturing. 
Nationwide replied, to say that it couldnt evidence that this reminder was sent. It said it 
would agree to pay what Id suggested. 
I then contacted Mr S, to tell him about the revised position. Mr S replied to say he didnt 
think £100 was enough compensation. He summarised for our service the time that this 
complaint had taken, and said given the amount of money hed since deposited with 
Nationwide, he thought it should pay more. 
I have reconsidered, in the light of Mr Ss comments. But I havent changed my mind. I still 
think the award I proposed to Nationwide would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
the part of this complaint which Ive decided should be upheld. 
I understand that Mr S feels strongly about this complaint, and that hes spent some time in 
discussion with our service about both of the complaint points he raised in this case. I have taken into account that Mr S needed not just to complain to Nationwide, but then to pursue 
this issue with our service, in deciding on an appropriate level of compensation. But I do still 
think that a payment of £77.24, to cover the interest he would have earned if hed moved his 
money promptly into a higher interest account, plus compensation of £100, would provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome here. So thats what Ill now award.
My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr S £77.24 to cover lost interest, 
and £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman