DRN-3402553
The complaint
Mr L complains that Starling Bank Ltd (Starling) didnt do more to help him obtain refunds 
after he purchased some goods online which werent received. 
What happened
What Mr L says happened 
Mr L said he placed 28 orders online with an overseas online retailer. Mr L said he received 
some of the orders, didnt receive others and had to return two as they were not fit for 
purpose. Mr L said he initially tried to claim refunds with the online retailer  but the 
process they had in place made it impossible to dispute whether the goods had been sent 
or not. 
Mr L said some of the orders he was disputing were noted as being sent by the sellers 
but he had not received them. He said he began to receive calls and letters from shipping 
companies that he had not entered into agreements with asking him to pay VAT, import 
and custom fees in order to receive the goods. Mr L was concerned these requests 
formed part of a scam and declined to provide his card details to pay the fees. He also 
pointed out that when he entered into the agreements of sale with the sellers, it was not 
agreed with him that he would be liable to pay any additional customs fees upon delivery. 
Hes told us that he now believes this was part of a wider scam to defraud customers. 
Having not received some of the goods he had paid for, Mr L contacted Starling and asked 
them to raise chargeback claims on his behalf. After much back and forth between Starling 
and Mr L, Starling did initially start the dispute process. But it later declined to proceed with 
the chargebacks as it didnt think Mr L had been able to provide the necessary evidence to 
allow it to do so. 
Mr L believes that this was an attempt by Starling to cover up the fraud that had been 
committed against him. Mr L said he had done everything he could to provide Starling with 
the information it had requested but the online retailer he had used to make the purchases 
was not responding to him. He also pointed out that the purchases he made had been 
charged to his account in Pounds Sterling but were quoted in US Dollars on his purchase 
invoices. This had made linking each charge on his statement to its corresponding order 
difficult. And this was made worse by the fact that the charges on his statement didnt 
show the order number they were linked to either.  
Mr L pointed out that he had provided Starling with conversations between him and the 
online retailer but due to the issues Ive set out above, it was very difficult for him to 
provide Starling with a response from each individual seller showing which payments he 
had disputed and their reason for declining to issue him with a refund. 
Mr L has said it is a lack of transparency at Starling Bank which has made the process 
more difficult  he says Starling shouldve been able to provide him with a trackable 
reference for each payment. He also stressed that he had agreed to pay for the goods he 
had purchased in USD but the transactions were showing on his Starling account 
statement in Pounds Sterling using an unknown exchange rate - and this meant he 
couldnt make sense of the transactions that had left his account. 
Mr L wasnt happy that Starling had allowed the sellers to take payment in a currency, and 
using a conversation rate, that he had not agreed to. Mr L said Starling should be able to 
tell him the exchange rate used by the sellers but whatever it was, it had allowed the 
sellers to take more money than what was agreed with him when he entered into the 
purchase agreements.  
Mr L has now told us that all but four of the original orders have been refunded. Mr L has 
said this suggests to him that he was due refunds for the orders when they failed to be 
delivered and so if his chargeback claims had been properly processed by Starling, he 
wouldve received his refunds much sooner than he ultimately did. Mr L also confirmed 
the sellers in question didnt provide any written correspondence setting out why these 
refunds have now been paid.  
Mr L wants Starling to refund him the payments for the remaining four orders.
What Starling says happened
Starling said Mr L contacted it to raise a number of chargeback claims after he had made 
a number of purchases online but did not receive the goods. 
Starling said it was initially unclear as to what transactions were in dispute as a number of 
transactions had been made to the same retailer around the same time  some had been 
received and some had not. Whilst Mr L was able to provide Starling with order numbers 
for the purchases he had made, there was no way for it to link these order numbers to the 
individual payments that had left his account. This was made even more difficult because 
the price quoted on Mr Ls invoices was in USD but payments had been taken in Pounds 
Sterling using an unknown conversion rate. 
Starling finally established the disputed transactions in February 2020 and agreed to initiate 
the dispute process. However, its disputes team asked Mr L to provide further information. 
Starling has said it asked Mr L to provide it with written communication between him and 
each individual seller showing that he had raised a dispute with them and why this had 
been declined. 
Starling said Mr L hadnt been able to provide the requested information for each individual 
dispute and so it hadnt been able to meet the evidentiary requirement for it to raise 
chargebacks on his behalf. It also said that some of the information that Mr L had provided 
to it indicated that the goods had not been delivered because Mr L had not paid the 
required import tax and charges requested by the delivery company  and not because the 
goods had not been sent by the sellers. Starling said that this scenario was not covered by 
the chargeback scheme rules and so it declined to pursue Mr Ls chargeback claims 
further. 
To further support its case, Starling also pointed to the service agreement published by 
the online retailer Mr L had used to make the purchases. This states that the buyer, in 
this case Mr L, would be considered the importer on record for customs and taxation 
purposes, unless otherwise specifically agreed upon between the buyer and seller. 
Starling said that if Mr L could provide evidence that he had raised a dispute with the 
sellers and that it was agreed the sellers would pay all the import fees and charges, it 
would look into his claims again.Starling said although it was aware Mr L was unhappy with the conversion rate applied to 
the transactions when they were being charged to his account, the conversation rate used 
had been applied by the sellers at the point of sale and not Starling. Starling said if Mr L 
was unhappy with the conversation rate applied, he would need to contact the sellers 
directly as this was a dispute he had with them. 
Starling said it had followed the correct procedures throughout and was unable to offer Mr 
L any further refunds. 
Mr L disagreed and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
She didnt think Starling had done anything in not agreeing to pursue the chargebacks 
further on Mr Ls behalf. 
Mr L didnt agree and so the complaint as been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Firstly, I need to make it clear that the scope of this complaint is limited to whether Starling 
acted fairly and reasonably when deciding not to pursue Mr Ls chargeback claims further 
than it did. 
I know Mr L feels strongly that it was not agreed that he would pay any import taxes and 
duties on the purchases he made. I know he also has concerns about paying in one 
currency and ultimately being charged in another - using an unknown exchange rate. But 
these are disputes between Mr L and the sellers he purchased the goods from, not Starling. 
And so I wont be commenting on these aspects of Mr Ls complaint further here. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme which is operated by some card issuers and it is dealt 
with under the applicable cards rules. The option to raise a chargeback is available in a 
range of circumstances where there's a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant. 
There's no automatic right to a chargeback. But as a general rule, we say it's fair to expect a 
card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there's a reasonable prospect that it will succeed. 
In order to raise a chargeback in this particular case, Starling needed to cite one of the 
specific reasons set out in the scheme rules. In this case, for goods paid for and not 
received. 
Were starlings actions in not pursuing the chargeback claims reasonable?
I can see that Starling did initially tell Mr L that it would raise disputes on his behalf. 
However, when the details were passed to Starlings internal disputes team, it was decided 
that these should not be pursued further without additional evidence from Mr L. The reason for this is when a bank is deciding whether to pursue a chargeback or not, it first has to 
satisfy itself the payment being challenged is eligible under the relevant scheme rules and 
whether the claim could be successful.
In order for a claim to be successful, generally speaking, the customer must show that they 
have first exhausted the dispute process with the seller and be able to provide confirmation 
from the seller as to why no refund has been agreed. In this case, Mr L wasnt able to 
provide evidence that he had exhausted the dispute process with the sellers in question. 
However, he had provided some documentation which indicated that at least some of the 
goods he was now disputing had more than likely been shipped to him in accordance with 
the merchants terms and conditions - but he had declined to pay the delivery companies 
the required fees, so the items had been held at customs. 
The applicable chargeback card scheme rules in this case state that a chargeback is not 
applicable when the goods in dispute are being held in customs for unpaid duty or customs 
fees. They set out that in such a situation, the cardholder, is obligated to pay the 
appropriate fees.Because of this, Starling asked Mr L if he could provide evidence 
documenting that he had an agreement in place with the sellers that he had purchased 
from confirming they would be liable to pay any appropriate import and custom fees. As 
without this, the chargebacks had no reasonable prospect of success.  
Im satisfied Starling acted reasonably in asking for further evidence from Mr L in order to 
satisfy itself that a successful claim could be pursued. Starling doesnt have to pursue a 
claim that it doesnt think will be successful. And Mr L wasnt able to provide evidence that 
he had the required agreement in place with the sellers. Hes told us that there was no 
mention of customs fees and duties when he made the purchases online and he wasnt 
made aware that he might ultimately be liable for these when making the purchases either. 
As Ive said above, if Mr L thinks these things werent made clear, he will need to speak to 
the sellers directly. But for the purposes of this complaint, Im satisfied Starling acted 
reasonably in not pursuing the chargeback claims further. Without this evidence, they had 
no reasonable prospect of success.  
Mr L has said that the online retailer has now refunded all but four of the transactions that 
were in dispute. Hes told us that the retailer hasnt confirmed why these refunds have 
been processed now and or why he is yet to receive a refund for the remaining four. I 
think its most likely that these refunds have been processed due to some of the goods 
being returned to sender after the applicable customs dutys werent paid. And as Im not 
satisfied Starling acted unreasonable in not pursuing the chargeback claims on Mr Ls 
behalf, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Starling to be held liable for 
the remainder now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Starling Bank Ltd and I dont 
require it to do anything more than it already has. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman