DRN-2888821
The complaint
Mr H complains about problems with Equifax Limiteds website and difficulties logging in to
his online account.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I 
said:
In December 2019 Mr H says he started to see a warning that said the connection is not 
private when trying to use Equifaxs website. On 3 January 2020 Mr H says he received a
message saying his credit file had changed but when he tried to use Equifaxs website saw
the privacy warning again. Mr H successfully logged into his account on 3 January 2020.
Mr H says he contacted Equifax to complain about the issue after seeing the same privacy
warning several times. Mr H has explained that Equifax sent him various emails to say his
complaint had been resolved but it didnt actually respond and deal with the issues raised.
So Mr H had to keep contacting Equifax to raise the points again and ask for assistance. Mr
H also says hes been given incorrect information about requiring a second log in for an
account hes been using for many years.
Equifax says Mr H raised several complaints so it merged them into one and responded on
16 September 2020. Equifax says it refunded seven monthly subscription fees totalling
£20.93 as a gesture of goodwill but found no issues regarding its website or Mr Hs account
that wouldve prevented him accessing his credit report online.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought
Equifax had dealt with the complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H asked to
appeal and said the dates Equifax had given for successful log ins was wrong. Mr H also
said the privacy warning remains an issue unless he uses a specific way of logging in. Mr H
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr H for the level of detail hes given in his submissions and the information
hes provided. Equifax has also provided a detailed response and, recently, sent systems
information that verifies when Mr H has successfully logged into his account.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr H has seen the warnings hes told us about, Ive used the links hes
provided and accessed Equifaxs website independently. Ive used separate browsers to try
and recreate the issues Mr H has told us about. I didnt see any privacy warnings when I
used the website and experienced no issues. I appreciate thats not conclusive and that Mr
H has consistently found problems when accessing Equifaxs website. But Ive also taken
into account that Equifax hasnt received lots of similar complaints that would indicate a
wider issue. I cant say why Mr H has repeatedly seen the privacy warning, but Im satisfied
Equifax has looked into the problem from its end and hasnt found any issues with its
website.
I understand Mr H disagrees with the dates Equifax has given for successfully logging into
his online account. I can confirm the systems information provided shows Mr H successfully
logged in on 30 December 2019 and 3 January 2020. After that, Mr H then successfully
logged into his online account on 22 October 2020.
The systems information also shows unsuccessful log in attempts. After 3 January 2020, the
first time Equifaxs systems show Mr H tried (and failed) to log in was on 10 October 2020.
And, as Ive said above, on 22 October 2020, Mr H successfully logged into his account. Im
satisfied there was a period of around 10 months where Mr H didnt attempt to log into his
account.
Mr H has told us he is concerned about the privacy warnings he has repeatedly seen when
trying to log in online. And I can see Mr H raised this with Equifax on various occasions
during a period of several months. In my view, its clear Mr H was waiting for Equifax to
respond to his concerns before logging in again.
Equifax sent Mr H an email on 15 September 2020 to say there were no technical problems
with his account. Equifax responded to Mr Hs complaint on 16 September 2020, after he
referred the matter to this service. Equifaxs response said Mr H had successfully logged into
his online account on 11 September 2020. But the systems evidence Equifax has provided
doesnt show account access on that date, it shows Mr H spoke with its telephone team.
I agree with Mr Hs view that Equifax took too long to respond to his queries and complaint
which impacted his ability to use his online account. I note Equifax refunded seven months
of subscriptions but Im not persuaded that goes far enough.
Whilst I havent found Equifaxs website wasnt working, I do think it shouldve done more to
try and deal with the concerns Mr H raised. Ultimately, Mr H first raised the issues in January
2020 and Equifax didnt provide a full response until the middle of September 2020. Mr H
didnt successfully log in until 22 October 2020. Im satisfied Mr H was waiting for Equifax to
respond which meant he wasnt receiving the benefit of the service he was paying for. Based
on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Equifax to
refund the subscription fees Mr H paid between January and October 2020.
In addition, as I think Equifax took too long to give a full response to the queries Mr H raised
I also intend to tell it to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused. In my view, that
figure fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr H and the amount of time he was
waiting to receive a response.  
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. Equifax didnt provide any new information or 
comment. Mr H responded and said Equifax had given misleading or incorrect information 
showing the dates he logged into his online account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H says he wasnt able to log on to his online account at the end of 
December 2019 and beginning of January 2020 as Equifax as claimed. But Equifax has 
provided evidence from its systems that shows the successful and failed log in attempts. The 
systems evidence shows Mr H successfully logged into his online account on the dates it 
claimed. I appreciate Mr Hs recollection may be different, but Im satisfied the evidence Ive 
seen shows the dates he was able to log in. 
As I neither party has provided new information that changes my view concerning how to 
fairly resolve Mr Hs complaint, Im going to proceed in line with my provisional decision. I 
still think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and that Equifax should refund all fees received 
between January 2020 and October 2020. And I still think Equifax should pay Mr H a further 
£100 to recognise the impact of the trouble and upset caused, for the same reasons.    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Equifax Limited to refund all 
subscription fees Mr H paid between January and October 2020 (less any refund already 
made) and pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman