DRN-3541071
The complaint
Mr A complains about the transfer of pension benefits from a defined benefits (DB) 
occupational pension scheme, to a personal pension arrangement. Mr A says he was 
advised to transfer by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (SKA)  who this complaint is about - 
and another financial business (which Ill call Firm R). Mr A believe that the advice provided 
was unsuitable for him, which has resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
Around the middle of 2017 Mr A met with SKA to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Mr A says he heard about SKA from his work colleagues. 
SKA completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr As circumstances and objectives 
at the time. This records that Mr A was considering a possible transfer of his DB pension 
scheme benefits. Because SKA didnt hold the relevant permissions from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his benefits in his DB scheme, it said 
Firm R would provide Mr A with advice.
In July 2017 Firm R sent Mr A a suitability report in which it recommended he transfer out of 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. Mr A accepted the recommendation and 
an amount of around £325,000 was transferred to a new personal pension. After Mr A took 
his tax-free cash entitlement, the proceeds were invested in a cautious managed fund and in 
cash  split 74% and 26% respectively. 
Following the transfer, SKA provided Mr A with ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
In 2021 Mr A complained to both SKA and Firm R about the advice. SKA said it hadnt 
provided Mr A with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had referred him to Firm R. 
Mr A, via a representative asked our service to consider his complaint. In summary Mr A 
said SKA did advise him to transfer his pension. He said he had no contact with Firm R. Mr 
A said that, regardless of whether SKA provided advice, SKA should be held jointly 
responsible for the advice on the basis that a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They werent persuaded that SKA had
advised Mr A to transfer his pension. They said the responsibility for the advice was Firm Rs 
and they were satisfied that Mr A had only transferred his pension because Firm R advised 
him to do so.
Mr A didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And I do 
so with regard to the particular facts and circumstances of Mr As complaint  each case is 
determined on its own merits. So what I determine to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint could be different to what a court might decide. I also want 
to be clear that Im only considering the individual facts and circumstances of Mr As 
dealings with SKA. I wont be considering SKAs alleged acts or omissions in other cases 
where it introduced individuals to Firm R. And I wont be considering the acts or omissions of 
Firm R in its dealings with Mr A because this complaint is about SKA  its not about Firm R.
Having taken all of this and the evidence presented in this case, Ive decided to not uphold it. 
My reasons are set out below.
Mr A says that SKA should be held liable for the advice and resulting financial loss hes 
suffered. Mr A says this is because he had no real contact with Firm R and says it was SKA 
that advised him to transfer his pension. Mr A says this interaction with SKA influenced his 
decision to go ahead with the transfer. Mr A also argues there was a joint venture between 
SKA and Firm R, and it says SKA should be held liable because it failed to treat him fairly, 
have regard to his best interests and manage conflicts of interests. 
Did SKA advise Mr A to transfer?
Im satisfied SKA did not hold the necessary permissions from the FCA to advise on the 
transfer of defined-benefit occupational schemes. For this reason it referred Mr A to Firm R, 
which did hold the necessary permissions for it to provide advice on the transfer. The referral 
was something that it could do, and in the circumstances Im satisfied it was necessary.
Having considered all of the available evidence, Im not persuaded that SKA advised Mr A to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits. Im satisfied it was Firm R, which provided the advice to 
Mr A to transfer out of his DB scheme in 2017 and it is this busines, which is solely 
responsible for the advice it gave Mr A.
It's not disputed that Mr A met with SKA. It completed a fact-find document to record 
information about Mr As circumstances and objectives as well as making an assessment of  
and documenting Mr As attitude to investment risk. I also think its likely there was a 
discussion about Mr As retirement objectives, which went as far as talking about the generic 
advantages and disadvantages of pension transfers  something SKA has said was likely 
the case. But I think this is as far as things went. And I dont think the completion of these 
documents or the nature of Mr As interaction with SKA demonstrates that SKA gave Mr A 
advice to transfer his pension.
In my view, the evidence shows that the remaining work required to put Mr A in a position to 
transfer was completed by Firm R. On  29 May 2017 SKA sent Mr A a letter explaining that it 
was passing his details to Firm R which had the necessary regulatory permission to provide 
advice on his pension. And on 1 July 2017 Firm R sent Mr A a Pension Referral and 
Engagement letter, which said that following the referral from SKA it would be responsible 
for the pension advice given to Mr A. 
The subsequent suitability letter of July 2017, which set out the formal written advice was 
issued by Firm R. I can see here that this letter also referred to Mr As meeting with SKA and 
that it would be giving the advice because he understood SKA didnt have the necessary 
permissions to assist with the pension transfer. Furthermore, the pension application form for 
the new personal pension included Firm Rs details as the adviser and not SKAs. Firm R 
also provided written confirmation to the trustees of Mr As DB scheme that it had provided and was responsible for the advice to transfer benefits from the DB scheme.
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied the advice Mr A received to transfer his 
DB scheme pension benefits was given by Firm R and not SKA. I also think Mr A wouldve 
understood that it was Firm R, not SKA that was providing him with advice.
Mr A says that despite this, it was SKA that provided him with advice to transfer. But having 
considered the available evidence, Ive not seen anything to support what Mr A says  Im 
not persuaded that SKA advised Mr A to transfer his pension benefits.
It's clear that Mr A met with SKA, and as Ive already said I dont doubt discussions took 
place. I accept its likely SKA hoped that Firm R would recommend Mr A transfer so it could 
become the servicing adviser and receive ongoing fees. Its also possible that Mr A believed 
SKA was advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen enough here to show 
that SKA gave Mr A, a personal recommendation, either verbally or in writing. In my view, 
and for the reasons Ive given above, the evidence shows that Firm R advised Mr A to 
transfer his pension, not SKA.
Im mindful too that Mr A could not have transferred his pension based solely on his verbal 
interactions with SKA. The trustees of Mr As DB scheme required that he get advice from an 
FCA registered adviser. And it was Firm R that provided confirmation of this to them. SKA 
did not produce such a document because it did not provide Mr A with any formal pension 
advice. So, Mr A could not have transferred his DB scheme benefits based on the meetings 
he had with SKA or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he wouldnt have been able to 
meet the trustees requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm R gave the advice for Mr A to transfer out of his DB scheme. 
And I dont think SKAs earlier involvement, or the fact it facilitated the completion of any 
paperwork, automatically makes SKA liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice 
provided by Firm R. It is my view that Firm R remains fully responsible for the advice it gave 
Mr A to transfer.
I can see Mr A says it was the interactions with SKA, regardless of whether it provided 
advice or not, that influenced his decision to transfer. But Im not persuaded by this. As Ive 
already said Ive not seen any evidence that SKA provided with Mr A with verbal or written 
pension advice - everything points to Firm R having given the advice, which led to Mr A 
transferring, and that Mr A understood this. There is nothing to show or suggest that SKA in 
any way endorsed a transfer, which might reasonably had led to Mr A placing more weight 
on what it said or did versus the formal written advice he received from Firm R. Nothing Ive 
seen persuades me that Mr As actions were driven purely by the interaction with SKA such 
that, had Firm R advised against the transfer, Mr A wouldve disregarded that advice and 
gone ahead anyway.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr A to transfer his DB pension scheme benefits. And if this advice was unsuitable, 
I think Firm R alone is responsible for any losses flowing from the transfer.
Did SKA and Firm R embark on a joint venture?
Mr A has suggested that a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R, which facilitated 
Mr A transferring his benefits and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial 
loss Mr A has suffered.For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
SKA liable for the advice given to Mr A to transfer his pension benefits. Although Mr A says 
SKA advised him to transfer, Im satisfied Mr A transferred his benefits because Firm R 
advised him to do so, independently of SKAs involvement. So, I think Mr As losses flow 
directly from Firm Rs advice, rather than because of any interaction he had with SKA before 
that.
Did SKA treat Mr A fairly or have due regard to his best interests?
As I have said above, SKA did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr A 
on the transfer of his pension benefits. So, SKA could not have advised Mr A against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it isnt usually in a customers best interests to transfer DB scheme benefits 
away from the existing scheme. As SKA didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred 
Mr A to Firm R, which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont 
think SKA could reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm R, 
particularly as Firm R had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. 
And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr A fairly, act in his best interests 
and provide him with suitable advice.
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence that it was SKAs advice that ultimately led to Mr As 
decision to transfer his pension benefits, without the actions of Firm R. Im also not 
persuaded that SKA made an error or treated Mr A unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
SKA to pay compensation to Mr A or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman