DRN-3966016
Complaint
Mrs C complains about a three year bond issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc) she 
invested into. She says the bond was mis-sold to her, and mismanaged.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs C invested in a B&G Plc Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond (3 years) in June 2017.
She invested in a one year fixed compounding Pensioner Bond, which renewed each year,
at the same time. But this does not form part of her complaint as she has been paid
compensation in relation to this by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
So I will only refer to the 3 year bond investment from here in.
Sales of the bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business
from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the
bond, through a website it operated - bassetgold.co.uk. And it was responsible for
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss
the bond.
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could
be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential
investor. BG Ltds online application process took steps to meet the obligations created by
these rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out, and
consider, the rules in my findings.
Neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its
own right at the time of Mrs Cs investment. But both were appointed representatives of
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium), which was an FCA authorised business.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to
28 February 2018. As such, Gallium is responsible for a complaint about either business
which is about the acts and omissions which took place during this time, for which Gallium
accepted responsibility.
Gallium has, at times, been represented by a legal representative. However, for simplicity, 
Iwill refer to Gallium throughout and any such reference should be taken to mean Gallium or
its legal representative.
Mrs Cs investment in the bond
Mrs C says she discussed making an investment in the bond over the phone with a
Representative of BG Ltd, after she contacted BG Ltd having seen an advert on the internet.
She says she received a couple of e-mails with attachments she could not open and was
told she would receive the information by post. She says she received the Terms and
Conditions, the certificate for the investment and ISA transfer form by post.
£20,000 was transferred from Mrs Cs existing ISA to Galliums client account, and that sum
was then invested in the bond. Mrs C says she was attracted by the high interest rate, and
she knew there was a risk of volatility but was assured that the investment was regulated by
the FCA and her investment would be protected.
There is limited evidence available from the time. BG Ltds administrators have provided a
copy of a spreadsheet showing what was recorded on BG Ltds system. That says Mrs C
completed a Everyday investor certification on 4 June 2017. The certificate for the
investment shows the application date as 5 June 2017 and the copy of the completed ISA
transfer form shows this was signed by Mrs C on 6 June 2017.
When Mrs C referred her complaint to us we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd
held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings of conversations Mrs C had with
BG Ltd before or during the bond application, and some post-dating the application. But not
recordings of all such conversations Mrs C had with BG Ltd. Mrs C has also provided copies
of some emails she exchanged with BG Ltd at the time.
From the call recordings and email correspondence it appears likely Mrs C first completed
an online application then, when it became apparent she was transferring money from an
existing ISA, she was asked by BG Ltd to complete a paper transfer form, to facilitate this.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. That email included the
following:
To date the vast majority of lending has been to an FCA regulated lender that currently
holds approximately 36,000 consumer loans. We are happy with the way that investment is
performing, and the underlying spread of loans across tens of thousands of borrowers
provides strong levels of predictability and resilience.
As Basset & Gold Plc is currently predominantly invested in a single lender, it is our
responsibility to ensure that you are aware of the associated risk, known as Concentration
Risk. It might help to explain this risk if you think of the goose that laid the golden egg. It
was a great asset, but it only took one goose to die for the asset to dry up. Basset & Golds
investment team has performed due diligence on more than 40 opportunities over the past
year. Its investment philosophy has been to accept the risk of holding one good asset, rather
than diluting quality in order to improve diversification. We hope that this will translate into
improved diversification over time, but as an investor you should be aware that Basset &
Gold will only proceed with an investment when they are happy with it, even if that prolongs
the Concentration Risk.
This refers to the fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to
one short term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle 
Buck went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly
afterwards. As a result, Mrs C has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The online application process
As mentioned above, it seems likely Mrs C completed an online application form for her
investment, and was asked to follow up with a paper ISA application form.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the
online application journey that potential investors underwent.
CertificationPotential investors would first have arrived at a page titled APPLY NOW TO BECOME AN
INVESTOR which asks the consumer to provide some basic details. The next page is titled
PLEASE SELECT THE MOST ACCURATE INVESTOR PROFILE FROM THE LIST
BELOW and in this case asked Mrs C to select from EVERYDAY INVESTOR, SELF
CERTIFIED SOPHISTICATED INVESTOR, ADVISED INVESTOR or HIGH NET WORTH
INVESTOR.
Mrs C is recorded as an EVERYDAY INVESTOR, which was described as follows:
What Is An Everyday Investor?
Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree to not make more than
10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and property excluding
your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold (i.e. illiquid). This is why
the FCA refers to these investors as 'Restricted Investors'.
Having selected this profile, potential investors were then be asked to make a statement,
confirmation and declaration as follows:
Everyday Investor Statement
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to non-
readily realisable securities and investments as a restricted investor.
I declare that I qualify as a restricted investor because both of the following apply:
In the preceding twelve months, I have not invested more than 10% of my net assets in non-
readily realisable securities.
I undertake that in the following twelve months, I will not invest more than 10% of my net
assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan secured
on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance;
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the termination
of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my dependents
are), or may be, entitled. 
Investment Duration
I confirm that I am aware that the minimum duration of the current bonds on offer are as
follows:
Cash Bond: 30 business days.
3 Year Monthly Income Bond: 3 years.
5 Year Monthly Income Bond: 5 years.
Compounding High-Yield Bond: 5 years.
Pensioner Bonds: 1 year extendable up to 5 years.Declaration
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested.
I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in
advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with
this type of investment. I am not planning on borrowing, remortgaging or liquidating
assets to invest into a Non-readily Realisable Security. I am not investing via a SIPP/SSAS
created specifically for investment in a Non-readily Realisable Security. I will retain
access to sufficient liquid resources following investment. I am aware the Bond is intended to
be an income producing product and not a product that provides capital growth.
I agree to Basset & Gold Plc and Gallium Fund Solutions Limited keeping a record of this
declaration and providing them to the FCA in event of an investigation.
Potential investors required to click Next to make the required statement, confirmation and
declaration.
The appropriateness test
Having completed the certification, potential investors would then have arrived at a page
titled JUST A FEW MORE QUESTIONS (REQUIRED BY LAW) which included the
following multiple choice questions and answers, and a concluding confirmation:
These questions are designed to check that this type of investment is appropriate for you.
Please read each question carefully and select the answer that you believe is correct.
1) AFTER YOU INVEST IN THIS OFFER CAN YOU TRANSFER YOUR BASSET &
GOLD BONDS?
The bonds are not transferable except in the case of the IFISA Bonds
Yes I can transfer them as a listed share
2) THE EXPECTED RETURN FROM BASSET AND GOLD BONDS? 
is the fixed interest rate per annum paid over the term (plus my Money back at the end).
is dependent on movements in the financial bond and equity markets.
3) IS YOUR CAPITAL SECURE?
No, my capital is at risk and I might not get back all that I invested.
Yes, my capital is secure and I have no risk of losing.
4) CAN THE BASSET & GOLD BONDS BE CONVERTED TO BASSET & GOLD
SHARES?
Yes
No
5) DIVERSIFICATION IS A COMMON WAY TO HELP MANAGE RISK WHEN
INVESTING; WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?That you should invest all of your money into a single bond.
That you should invest your money in a range of different bonds as well as other less risky
investments.
I confirm that I have read, understood and agree to Basset Gold Ltds terms and conditions
of service and confirm that I would like to become a client of Basset Gold Ltd and receive
financial promotions from time to time.
If any question was answered incorrectly the website displayed the following message (at
the point of the particular question being answered incorrectly):
You have selected an incorrect answer. If this was an error please correct your answer,
however please consider that if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it
might not be suitable for you.
I have seen no detail of Mrs Cs application, so do not know whether she answered any
questions incorrectly initially and changed her answers, having seen this message.
Answering the questions correctly allowed potential investors to move the to the final stages,
which involved selecting an ISA or bond, selecting which of the products they wanted to
invest in, and how much they wanted to invest. After completing these final stages
consumers were able to click on a box to open the Invitation Document for the bond.
However, it was not mandatory to do this  consumers were able to proceed without opening
the Invitation Document. As mentioned, Mrs C says she did not see the Invitation Document.
The paper ISA application form
I have also seen the paper ISA transfer application form Mrs C completed. This is signed
and dated 6 June and so, from the available evidence, appears to have been completed
after the online application.
The form required Mrs C to give her personal details, details of her existing ISA, bank details
etc. It also included a section called Understanding the IF ISA, which asked (with the
options and Mrs Cs answers following): 
How much knowledge do you have of investing? (none, some, expert)  some
Do you understand that you may note be able to access your capital before the
repayment date (yes, no)  yes
Do you understand your capital is at risk? (yes, no)  yes
Do you understand that investments in peer to peer loans are not protected by the
Financial Service Compensation Scheme? (yes, no)  yes
Are you investing more than 10% of your total wealth? (yes, no)  no
Galliums response to Mrs Cs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. After Mrs C referred her complaint to us, Gallium
sent us what it described as its position statement, which sets out general information on
the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds. I have considered this when reaching
my decision.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Cs complaint and concluded it should be upheld.He said, in summary:
He was satisfied the complaint is about a regulated activity and that Gallium, as the
principal of BG Ltd, was responsible for the acts or omissions the complaint relates
to. So the complaint is one we can consider.
The promotional material for the bond was not clear, fair and not mis-leading.
BG Ltd did not take sufficient steps to ascertain Mrs C did meet the definition of a
restricted investor. And the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her
didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations.
Had it done so Mrs C wouldnt have invested.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
On the scope of Mrs Cs complaint:
Mrs C hadnt detailed why she thought the bond had been mis-sold  though it
appreciated our inquisitorial remit, it felt we had gone significantly beyond the scope
of the complaint made. Complainants must establish a proper basis for a complaint
about Gallium to be upheld and Mrs Cs complaint did not do that. It thought the case
ought to have been dismissed on this basis.
On the appropriateness test:
It is important to recognise when appropriateness testing or suitability testing is
required. As businesses structure their approach based on this, any incorrect
application can wholly undermine their business model. There is significant cost to
designing and implementing the approach. Our investigator had not applied the 
requirements correctly.
The fundamental question when assessing appropriateness is whether the client is
able to understand the risks involved in relation to the product (COBS 10.2.1R).
COBS 10.2.1R notwithstanding, depending on the circumstances, a business may
conclude that knowledge alone is sufficient for the client to understand the risks
involved in the product. Equally, a firm may infer knowledge from experience (COBS
10.2.6G).
Depending on the nature of the client and product complexity and risks, it may be
appropriate for the business to seek information on the types of investment with
which the client is familiar, their history of similar investments, and their level of
education and profession. But there is no requirement to seek all of that information
in every case: it is required only to the extent it is relevant to assessing whether the
client was able to understand the risks of the product (COBS 10.2.2R).
The FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around appropriateness since
Mrs C made her investment, and the regulatory environment has changed. At the
time of the investment, however, the FCA had publicly articulated different
expectations. We must apply regulatory expectations as they existed at the relevant
time and not seek to apply the different standards that exist today in a retrospectivemanner.
In 2014 there had been discussions between the FCA and crowdfunding industry as
to what the FCA expected businesses to do to ensure investments were appropriate
for investors. The guidance took the form of two question and answer sessions with
the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UK Crowdfunding Association (UKCFA).
These sessions addressed, in particular, the question of whether investor experience
and education needed to form part of an appropriateness assessment. Gallium had
regard to this guidance when considering BG Ltds appropriateness testing.
It understands that guidance provided by the FCA in those industry meetings clarified
that firms were able to satisfy themselves of what information was pertinent to their
investment process. Importantly, in appropriate circumstances, the FCA would not
insist on an appropriateness test containing questions about education or prior
investment experience.
In any event, Gallium did in fact carry out adequate testing of investors relevant
knowledge and experience. Gallium required prospective investors to pass the
appropriateness test by correctly answering 100% of the questions asked. In
completing the appropriateness test, information was obtained about an investors
knowledge and experience of the key characteristics of the bonds.
Mrs C also certified that she was an everyday investor, confirming I have made
investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with this
type of investment.
Further, all investors also expressly confirmed that the bonds may expose me to a
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested and they had
read and understood the Invitation Document including the terms and conditions of
the bonds and associated risks. The Invitation Document provided investors with full
details of the nature of the investment and its risks.
Taken together, the appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were 
sufficient for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient
knowledge and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds
involved, per COBS 10.2.1(2)R.
The fact Mrs C was able to invest demonstrates that she answered the
appropriateness test correctly and gave the confirmations. Gallium was entitled to
conclude that she had answered each question honestly and conscientiously, and in
so doing had demonstrated she understood the investment opportunity.
COBS 10.2.4R provides that [a] firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by
a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or
incomplete. Gallium had no such awareness.
If Mrs C misrepresented her knowledge and experience, in accordance with well-
established legal principles, she should be estopped from taking a position contrary
to her own representation. If investors were willing to give false information in
response to the appropriateness fest and the confirmations, there is no basis to
suppose they would have given accurate information had further questions been
asked.On the promotional material:
The view appears to consider the promotional material to be misleading based on
statements made in the Invitation Document.
When considered as a whole the statements in the Invitation Document should be
properly considered clear, fair and not misleading.
On whether Mrs C would have proceeded with the investment in any event:
Mrs C was notified in clear terms in January 2019 that there was a concentration risk
arising from the high proportion of funds being lent to one entity, carrying out one
type of lending. The risks this entailed were explained in clear terms to her and she
was given the opportunity to seek to redeem her bonds, but took no steps to do so.
This provides evidence of how Mrs C would have acted if presented with that
material when deciding whether to invest. In any event, it demonstrates that Mrs C
became aware of the concentration risk in 2019, had the option to seek to exit her
investment in the bonds, and chose not to do so, or even to explore the possibility.
Her loss is therefore caused by the decision not to exit the investment when that risk
was made clear to her in 2019. Whilst Gallium does not accept that the promotional
material was not fair, clear and not misleading; this demonstrates clearly that she
would have continued to invest regardless.
The investigator says Mrs C decided to invest because the investment was fully
protected by the FCA. But the promotional material on this point was clear  it
explained the investment was not covered by the Financial Services Compensation
Scheme (FSCS). It did not state the investment itself, or any Bassett & Gold entity
was regulated by the FCA.
Mrs C expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with the
investment she was at risk of losing the capital invested. Mrs C cannot now be
permitted to suggest that she would not have put her capital at risk, when she
confirmed on numerous occasions that she understood and acknowledged that her
capital was at risk. The 6.22% interest rate evidences Mrs C knew the investment 
was not risk free  the Bank of England Base Rate was only 0.25% so its not 
realistic to suggest she did not appreciate or accept the risk.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision. I concluded the complaint should be upheld. As Ive 
set my provisional findings out again below, I will not set out any further detail here. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C accepted my provisional decision. Gallium did not respond.  
My findings
As neither party has made any further submissions following my provisional decision I have 
not been persuaded to depart from it. I have therefore largely repeated my provisional 
findings as my final decision. For completeness, I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whether we can consider Mrs Cs complaint.
I note there is some dispute from Gallium about what we should be looking at when
considering Mrs Cs complaint. Gallium says our investigator made findings on matters
significantly beyond the scope of the complaint Mrs C has made. It also says complainants
must establish a proper basis for a complaint about Gallium to be upheld and Mrs Cs
complaint did not do that.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum. A complaint
made to us need not be, and rarely is, made out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings. As
recognised by the High Court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC
2142, our service deals with complaints, not causes of action. Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial,
not adversarial.
Mrs Cs complaint concerns what Mrs C considers to be a mis-sale of the bond by BG Ltd,
and the ongoing management of the bond. Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice,
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
The bond was a security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs C
made her investment, the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in
investments. Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form
and sending it off, with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the
scope of Article 25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the
transaction. So I am satisfied the online application process falls within the scope of Article
25(1). These all involved making arrangements for Mrs C to invest in the bond, and had the
direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
So I am satisfied Mrs Cs complaint  insofar as it relates to the bond application process - is
about regulated activities. I am also satisfied this part of the complaint is about acts for which
Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be considered in
a complaint against it.
I am not able to consider B&G Plcs issuing of the bond or what B&G Plc did with the money
once Mrs C invested. B&G Plcs issuing of the bond and what B&G Plc did with the money
once Mrs C invested did not involve regulated activities.
So in this case I think the focus is on the acts or omissions of BG Ltd, as it was BG Ltd which
was responsible for the sale of the bond.
In the circumstances  keeping in mind what I say above about our jurisdiction being
inquisitorial - I think it is appropriate to consider all the acts or omissions which relate to the
sale of the bond. Although I only need to make findings on these to the extent it is necessary
to reach a decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether
Gallium met its regulatory obligations when BG Ltd, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts
the complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular
relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the information
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and
not misleading
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I
also consider to be relevant here:
COBS 4.2.1R:
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not
misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a direct-
offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security to or for communication
to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial promotion is
one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in relation to
the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on appropriateness (see COBS
10) or equivalent requirements for any application or order that the person is aware, or ought
reasonably to be aware, is in response to the direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 4.7.10R
A certified restricted investor is an individual who has signed, within the period of twelve
months ending with the day on which the communication is made, a statement in the
following terms:
RESTRICTED INVESTOR STATEMENT
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to non-
readily realisable securities as a restricted investor. I declare that I qualify as a
restricted investor because:
(a) in the twelve months preceding the date below, I have not invested more than 10% of my 
net assets in non-readily realisable securities; and
(b) I undertake that in the twelve months following the date below, I will not invest more than 
10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan
secured on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance; or
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the
termination of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my dependants 
are), or may be entitled; or) any withdrawals from my pension savings (except where the 
withdrawals are used directly for income in retirement).
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested. I am aware that it
is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in advising on
non-readily realisable securities.
Signature:
Date:
COBS 10  Appropriateness (for non-advised services)
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer financial
promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client toprovide information regarding her knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order
to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered or demanded;
COBS 10.2.2 R:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and
the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
10.2.6G  Knowledge and experience:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone
is sufficient for her to understand the risks involved in a product or service. Where
reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience. 
COBS 10.3 Warning the client
COBS 10.3.1R
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm must
warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding her knowledge and
experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the firm to
determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him.
COBS 10.3.3G
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by
the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
I note Gallium has also referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA.I have had regard to
the policy statement, and to Galliums recollections of the two question and answer sessions.
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair andreasonable in the circumstances, and given careful consideration to all Gallium has said, I
have reached similar conclusions to the investigator. However, in the circumstances of this
complaint, I do not think its necessary for me to consider all the points the investigator did. I
am satisfied I can reach a fair and reasonable outcome by considering the application
process (i.e. the certification and appropriateness test Mrs C underwent) alone.
My decision, in summary, is as follows:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs C into certifying herself as belonging
in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the
term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs C fairly or acting in her best
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs C, it is unlikely she
would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs C. In the circumstances Mrs C would
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs C.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Cs complaint
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs C would either not have proceeded to make the
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I have concluded its fair to ask Gallium to
compensate Mrs C for her loss.
I have set things out in more detail below.
The application process
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the B&G Plc
bond. The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be
satisfied before a business such as BG Ltd (here acting on Galliums behalf) could
communicate or approve a direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable
security such as the bonds issued by B&G Plc.
The online application took steps toward meeting the rules which set out how a busines must
satisfy the two conditions, which I have set out above. The paper application included
questions which might be relevant to the two conditions but did not say they were being
asked for this purpose. The form said only:
Before you invest, we need to make sure you fully understood (sic) the risks of lending. Its
important you understand the risks involved in managing your IF ISA with Bassett Gold
Limited
I will consider the steps taken by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, in relation to each of the two
conditions in turn.
At the outset I think it is important to emphasise the bond Mrs C invested in was not a
straightforward product. Risk factors associated with the bond included the track record of
B&G Plc, the detail of its due diligence on the businesses it would be lending to, the criteria
B&G Plc applied to its lending and the conditions on which the loan was made. The credithistory of the business the loan was made to would also need to be considered, its capacity
to repay, and its capital position. Furthermore, as the business B&G Plc was lending to was
itself lending, the lending criteria it applied, the default rate and the success of its past
lending would need to be considered. All of these points (and this is not an exhaustive list)
would need to be considered in order to understand the investment.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  credit
reference agencies  carry out credit analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond
and express a view (a rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit
analysis before deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumers
understanding of the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a
recognised exchange, and so could not be readily sold (in fact it seems to have been a
condition of the investment that it could not be transferred). And, as Gallium has pointed out,
the Invitation Document which set out the details of the bond was over 40 pages long. I have
read the document and it contains a lot of complex technical information which may not be
readily understood by the average investor.
So the bond was complex, risky and specialist and this is why the bond fell into a category of
investment on which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. And an
obvious risk of consumer detriment arises if the rules relating to this are not properly applied.
The importance of Gallium fully meeting its regulatory obligations here was therefore high.
Its responsibility was significant. And the steps it took to meet its regulatory obligations need
to be considered with that in mind.
Certification
The first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required a retail client, such as Mrs C, to be
certified as being in one of four categories of investor in order to receive promotional
communications relating to the bond. In this case, Mrs C was certified as a restricted
investor. The detail of this category and the process by which an investor can certify
themselves as belonging to it is set out in COBS 4.7.10R, which I have quoted above. The 
certification stage of the application stage on BG Ltds website did not meet the
requirements of COBS 4.7.10R in a number of ways.
Firstly, BG Ltd did not use the correct term  restricted investor - it instead used the term
everyday investor.
Secondly, the statement, confirmation and declaration Mrs C was asked to make included
some of the wording set out in 4.7.10R  but not all of it. And additions had been made. The
title of the statement also departed from the wording set out in 4.7.10R  it was described as
a Everyday Investor Statement.
Finally, BG Ltd provided its own definition of a restricted (or, as it put it, everyday) investor,
as follows:
Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree to not make more than
10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and property excluding
your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold (i.e. illiquid). This is why
the FCA refers to these investors as 'Restricted Investors'.
The requirements set out in 4.7.10R are much further reaching than You just need to agree
to not make more than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and
property excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold.
4.7.10R requires the prospective investor to agree to all of the following:In the twelve months preceding the certification date, not to have invested more than
10% of their net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To undertake that in the twelve months following the certification date, they will not
invest more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To accept that the investments may expose them to a significant risk of losing all of
the money invested.
To be aware that it is open to them to seek advice from an authorised person who
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have considered the impact of these departures from the requirements of 4.7.10R.
As set out in the background above, Mrs C was offered the option of four investor profiles,
after she had completed the first stages of her application. The options, other than everyday
investor were self certified sophisticated investor ,advised investor or high net worth
investor.
In my view, the change of the term restricted investor to everyday investor and BG Ltds
definition of this being a category to which anyone could belong, by simply agreeing to not
make more than 10% of their investments in investments that cannot easily be sold, had the
effect of making the restricted investor category appear to be one into which investors like
Mrs C would naturally fall.
Restricted is, by its common and ordinary meaning, something which is limited in amount
or range. Synonyms include words like limited, constricted and controlled. And what is set
out in 4.7.10R is consistent with this. Everyday is, by its common and ordinary meaning,
something which is ordinary, typical or usual and is inconsistent with what is set out in
4.7.10R The change of the term was also likely to alter how it was perceived. This is
compounded by BG Ltds definition of a restricted investor as being a category to which 
anyone can belong. Clearly not anyone can belong to a restricted category.
In my view this put undue emphasis on the everyday investor option, and led consumers
like Mrs C to selecting this option when they may not have done so otherwise. I do not think
it was fair or reasonable for BG Ltd to act in this way. It was not treating Mrs C fairly or acting
in her best interests. BG Ltd ought to have known that changing the term created a risk of
consumers perceiving a restricted investor to be something different to what it was, and
certifying themselves incorrectly as a result, and risked consumers skipping through this as a
formality.
Gallium says It would not be fair or reasonable to expect it to anticipate that investors would
incorrectly claim to satisfy the requirements of a restricted investor. I do not agree. If you
change the description of a category from restricted to an everyday one to which
anyone can belong an obvious risk is that prospective investors who do not belong in the
category mistake the category as being one to which they do belong. Indeed, it is difficult to
see why BG Ltd departed from 4.7.10R and changed the term and definition other than to
get investors to certify themselves as being eligible to receive a promotion of the bond when
they might not otherwise have done so. In my view this appears to have been done to
contrive this outcome in a bid to access more investors.
In my view an everyday investor  particularly when described as a category to which
anyone can belong - is an option Mrs C would immediately have understood or couldresonate with as that term is a reasonable description of an investor with her characteristics
 someone without significant investment experience or assets who was looking to invest a
modest amount to provide an income to supplement their pension. In my view Mrs C would
have been attracted to this profile based on her understanding and perception of the word
everyday and the description of it as a category to which anyone can belong.
Mrs C did not qualify as a restricted investor. Mrs C has confirmed that at the time she had
£50,000 in ISAs, £11,000 in an NS&I Pensioner Bond and £40,000 in cash accounts. So the
investment represented more than 10% of her net realisable assets. I am also not persuaded
Mrs C understood there was a significant risk of losing all of the money invested. She says
she understood the value might fluctuate but thought the investment was, ultimately,
protected, from the assurances she was given by BG Ltd. This is in my view a plausible
recollection. Although we do not have the recordings of all the conversations which took
place between Mrs C and BG Ltd before the investment was made, her recollections of
being given assurances about risk are consistent with what I have seen in other complaints
about the sale of these bonds.
I acknowledge that the statement, confirmation and declaration did largely mirror what is set
out in 4.7.10R and so Mrs C did state, confirm and declare something which was not
accurate. However, I think it unlikely Mrs C knowingly gave a false statement. I think it
instead likely that she did not consider the detail of what she was being asked to agree to as
she understood it to be an everyday i.e. ordinary, typical or usual category, to which
anyone could belong.
I note Galliums reference to case law relating to circumstances where someone is seeking 
to take a position contrary to an earlier representation. The law is a relevant consideration
which I need to take into account. But the case law Gallium has referred to is quite different
to the facts of this case. Mrs Cs complaint is about what she generally describes as a mis-
sale. She has not set out the precise technical basis on which she considers this mis-sale
took place. I think that is because she does not have the knowledge to be able to do so. But
Mrs C does not need to set out the technical basis of her mis-sale complaint  as set out
above, I have an inquisitorial remit. And Mrs C is not making a legal claim - my role here is to
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, on the basis I have set out. I do not
think it would be fair and reasonable to say the statement, confirmation and declaration
should be relied on in circumstances where Mrs C was misled into giving them.
I think it is unlikely Mrs C would have made the statement confirmation and declaration at all
had the correct restricted investor term been used and had the website not presented the
restricted investor category as being an everyday one into which anyone could fall. I also
think it unlikely she would have described herself as a self-certified sophisticated investor,
advised investor or high net worth investor as it would have been clear from the
descriptions of those categories that she did not fit into them.
So I am satisfied if BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to
meet Galliums regulatory obligations Mrs C would not have got beyond this stage. The first
condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have proceeded
beyond this. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Cs complaint on this
basis alone. I have however, for completeness, gone on to consider the appropriateness
test.
I note the paper ISA application form contained two further questions which are arguably
relevant to a restricted investor classification:
Are you investing more than 10% of your total wealth? (Mrs C answered no)
Do you understand your capital is at risk? (Mrs C answered yes)Gallium may argue this was an additional or alternative basis on which Mrs C could be
certified as a restricted investor. Or further evidence it was reasonable to conclude she met
the definition. However, Mrs C was only asked to complete the form after shed completed
the full online application process. So she would not have got to this point had she not
certified herself to be a restricted (everyday) investor (and passed the appropriateness test,
which I consider below). For the reasons I set out above and below I do not think Mrs C
could or should have got beyond the online application stage.
In any event, these questions were not posed for the purpose of classification, it appears (or
at least not described as such). And I think the inaccurate answers Mrs C gave were a
product of her being misled during the everyday certification and being reassured during
her interactions with BG Ltd. As with the online application, I think it unlikely Mrs C knowingly
gave a false statement.
Appropriateness
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section
above.
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, to ask
Mrs C to provide information regarding her knowledge and experience  and for this
information to be relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required 
that information to then be assessed, to determine whether Mrs C did have the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved (the second limb of the
rule).
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, when
considering what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the
type of product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent
appropriate to the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and
the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
In my view BG Ltd failed to ask for an appropriate amount of information about Mrs Cs
knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R.
BG Ltd did not refer to an appropriateness test on the website  it instead referred to just a
few more questions (required by law). I think this, in itself, is a further example of BG Ltd
downplaying the significance of the regulatory requirements and attempting to make them
appear as a formality, as it did under the certification section.
Under the few more questions section BG Ltd asked five questions which tested
knowledge. These questions asked whether Mrs C knew if the bonds were transferable, if
the return was fixed, if their capital was secure, if the bonds could be converted to shares
and the meaning of diversification. Nothing was asked about Mrs Cs experience. And if
Mrs C got a question wrong, she would be told her answer was wrong and prompted to
reconsider it.Even if Mrs C did know the correct answer to all five questions without prompting this only
showed she understood the bonds were not transferrable, the return was fixed, capital was
at risk, whether the bonds could be converted into shares and was able to select a correct
answer from two options as to what the definition of diversification was.
This falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mrs C had the knowledge to
understand the risk associated with the bonds  particularly in circumstances were the
multiple-choice options were limited to two and Mrs C was allowed repeated efforts to get
them right. The risks, as I set out earlier, were complex and multifactorial. It was not, for
example, a question of whether Mrs C simply understood money could be lost  but whether
she was able to understand how likely that might be and what factors might lead to it
happening.
BG Ltd did ask Mrs C to declare, at the previous stage I am familiar with this type of
investment. and I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months. And it
says this means it did have some information about Mrs Cs experience, and additional
information about her knowledge. However, even accounting for the declaration, an
appropriate level of information was not asked for. I also think the declaration could not
reasonably be relied on when, at the point of giving it, Mrs C may have viewed it as a
formality due to it being described as part of something everyday to which anyone could
belong.
I note the paper ISA application form contained four questions about knowledge and 
experience:
How much knowledge do you have of investing? (none, some, expert)  some
Do you understand that you may note be able to access your capital before the
repayment date (yes, no)  yes
Do you understand your capital is at risk? (yes, no)  yes
Do you understand that investments in peer to peer loans are not protected by the
Financial Service Compensation Scheme? (yes, no)  yes
But this was completed after the appropriateness test was completed and I have seen no
evidence to show this information was considered by BG Ltd or acquired for the purposes of
an appropriateness test. It does not, in any event, meet the standards set out in 10.2.2R in
my view.
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, BG Ltd was unable to carry out the
assessment required under the second limb. BG Ltd should have been confident, from the
information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mrs C had the necessary experience
and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved with investment in the bond. But it
was not in a position to make such an assessment, based on the information it obtained.
Gallium refers to 10.2.6G which says there may be circumstances in which a firm may be
satisfied that the client's knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks
involved in a product or service.
I do not think these were such circumstances  not least because BG Ltd did not ask for an
appropriate amount of information about Mrs Cs knowledge. The guidance in any event
does not supplant the rules and in my view it is clearly meant to apply where the client has
been asked about both knowledge and experience, as the rules require, and the information
obtained shows knowledge is high and experience is low. It does not say a business can ask
only about knowledge when conducting an appropriateness test.Gallium also refers to industry conferences with the FCA. But I have seen no evidence to
show it was told by the FCA that it did not have to follow the rules i.e. that it did not have to
ask about experience at all. In any event  and notwithstanding what I say above about
COBS 10.2.1R and 10.2.6G - as it did not ask for sufficient information about Mrs Cs
knowledge it was not in a position to assess whether her knowledge alone was sufficient.
Gallium also suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around
appropriateness since Mrs C made her investment in 2017, and the regulatory environment
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the
time.
Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/04. This relates to the regulation of
firms operating online crowdfunding platforms or conducting other similar activities. I have
read the statement. In my view it simply confirms the rules on appropriateness apply and
must be followed. I note, for example, the statement confirms, at 4.24, that firms are required
to assess whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the
risk involved. In relation to the crowdfunding coming under its regulation the FCAs proposal
(which was adopted), summarised at 4.6, was:
where no advice was provided, that all firms (MiFID and non-MiFID) must check that clients
have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved before being 
invited to respond to an offer
The policy statement does not therefore change my view that BG Ltd, acting on behalf of
Gallium, did not meet its regulatory obligations.
Had the process been consistent with what the rules required - had Mrs C been asked for
appropriate information about her knowledge and experience - the only reasonable
conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mrs C did not have
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the bond.
Mrs C had limited investment experience and I have seen no evidence to show she had
anything other than a basic knowledge of investments.
If BG Ltd assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1 R said a warning must
be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether in the
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the
warning.
This envisages the test being completed, and a result determined, before the warning was
given. As BG Ltd designed the test the only warning was in response to incorrect answers
and simply said if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it might not be
suitable for you. In my view this does not meet what is required by COBS 10.3.1R, which is
a warning that the product is not appropriate. And, by allowing Mrs C the opportunity to
effectively silence the warning through selecting a different answer, the impact of it was
reduced in any event. The process also did not give BG Ltd the opportunity to consider
whether in the circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if Mrs C wished to proceed,
despite the warning.
In my view a warning which told Mrs C clearly an investment in the bond was not appropriate
for her would likely have put Mrs C off proceeding further. That is a clear, emphatic
statement which would have left Mrs C in no doubt the bond was not an appropriate
investment for her. And she ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an
appropriateness test consistent with the requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore, had BG Ltd given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances
whether to go ahead with the transaction if Mrs C wished to proceed, having asked for
appropriate information about Mrs Cs knowledge and experience, it would have been fairand reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should not allow Mrs C to proceed. Had Mrs C
been asked for appropriate information about her knowledge and experience this would have
shown she may not have the capacity to fully understand the risk associated with the bond.
As mentioned, I have seen no evidence to show Mrs C had anything other than a basic
knowledge of investments. In these circumstances, it would not have been fair and
reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should proceed if Mrs C wanted to, despite a warning
(which, as noted, was not in any event given in the required terms).
All in all, I am satisfied BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably
when assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did it was not
treating Mrs C fairly or acting in her best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to
meet the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mrs C would not
have got beyond this stage. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Cs
complaint on this basis alone. Even if I am wrong to say Mrs C would not have said she was
a restricted investor and given the statement, confirmation and declaration relating to this
had BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, acted differently (and for the reasons I have set out, I do
not consider that to be the case) Mrs C would still not have got beyond this second stage.
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have 
proceeded beyond this.
Invitation Document
Mrs C could only have been privy to the Invitation Document after having completed the
certification and appropriateness test. And, as I set out above, I do not think Mrs C should
have reached this point.
I acknowledge that if Mrs C may have seen the Invitation Document in any event (although
she does not recall doing so), as she was incorrectly certified as a restricted investor as a
result of being misled by BG Ltd and the bond was incorrectly assessed as being
appropriate for her, allowing her access to the Invitation Document. However, considering
the available evidence, I think it unlikely Mrs C looked at the Invitation Document in any
detail and that she did not have the capacity to fully understand it even if she did look at it in
detail.
So I do not think Gallium can rely on the Invitation Document to say Mrs C had an
understanding of the bond.
For completeness I think it is also important to say that an objective of the appropriateness
test was to protect consumers such as Mrs C from receiving communications about
investments which were not appropriate for them. One obvious reason for this being that
such consumers may not be able to fully understand these communications. So it would not
be fair and reasonable to say, where the test has not been applied as set out in the rules and
an incorrect conclusion reached on appropriateness as a result, that any knowledge
subsequently acquired from the Invitation Document can be used in an effort to
retrospectively satisfy the test.
Is it fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs C?
I have considered all the points Gallium has made. However, for the reasons given, I am
satisfied that if BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its
regulatory obligations Mrs C could not  or would not - have proceeded to invest in the bond.
She would not  and could not - have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R
in order to receive promotional communications relating to the bond. So the starting point is
therefore that it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs C for the loss she has suffered as a
result of making the investment.Gallium has pointed out that the January 2019 update email did not lead to Mrs C taking any
action. So her loss is not caused by her decision not to exit her investment when the risks
were made clear to her in 2019. I do not think it would be fair in the circumstances to say
Mrs C is responsible for the loss she has suffered due to her not reacting to this update. As
mentioned, I am not persuaded she had the capacity to fully understand the risks associated
with the bond  and she was in this position because BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did
not act fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations at the outset.
In any event, I also think the wording of this email was largely reassuring and did not prompt
investors overall to take any action (I note Gallium says that only one of 1,700 investors who
received this email took any action). So it is not unreasonable to think that Mrs C would have
been reassured by this communication  to the extent she understood it - and didnt take any
action in response to it.
I am therefore satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs C.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for uphold the complaint. I am satisfied, for all the
reasons given, that Mrs C would not have invested in the bond had BG Ltd, on behalf of
Gallium, acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair to
ask Gallium to compensate Mrs C for the loss she has suffered
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs
C as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I think Mrs C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable
given Mrs C's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable.
Gallium should also pay interest as set out below.
It is also clear that Mrs C has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the
loss of her investment. She has lost a considerable sum of money. I do not believe
Mrs C foresaw such a drastic loss and I recognise the worry she will have felt when
B&G Plc failed. I consider a payment of £300 is fair compensation for the upset
caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Portfolio 
nameBenchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional interest
B&G Plc 
BondAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year from 
final decision to 
settlement (if not settled 
within 28 days of Gallium 
receiving Mrs C's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs C agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs C that she repays to Gallium any amount she
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested,
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted to achieve a reasonable return without any significant risk to her
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs C's
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs C would have invested only
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold the complaint. Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs C in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 John Pattinson
Ombudsman