DRN-2724294
The complaint
Mr R is complaining that the car he bought through a conditional sale agreement from Close 
Brothers Limited was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr R purchased his car on 30 January 2019. It was first registered in 2012 and had covered
around 54,000 miles at the time of the sale. It was purchased through a conditional sale
agreement with a cash price of around £20,000.
In April 2019, Mr R noticed an issue with the brake pedal being spongey. He was having to
press the brake pedal in further and further to bring the car to a stop. Concerned about this,
he spoke to his warranty provider who recommended a garage to take the car to and get the
brakes checked. He took the car to the recommended garage, who diagnosed contaminated
brake fluid and replaced it. Mr R paid for this himself. The mileage at the time was just under
58,000 miles.
Unfortunately, this did not resolve the problem, and the brakes began to get spongey again
over the following weeks. In July, while driving on a dual carriageway, the brakes failed
completely, and Mr R had to pull off the road and arrange for the car to be towed to a nearby
garage. The car had done around 60,000 miles at this point.
This was repaired under his warranty. It was diagnosed as a brake master cylinder/servo
failure. Unfortunately, within 2 weeks, the brakes were spongey again, and the car was off
the road at another garage organised by the warranty company. They could not diagnose
the underlying problem however, so by August the car was moved to the local specialist
dealership to work out what the underlying problem was.
They attempted diagnosis and carried out pressure bleeding of the system and kept the car
overnight. Again, Mr R was sent home with the car, and the warranty company covered this
bill. Again, the problem resurfaced within 2 weeks, so the car was returned to the specialist
dealership later in August.
After further examining the car, they told Mr R that they could only guarantee resolving the
problem by replacing the whole braking system on the car and quoted £5,762 for this work.
This exceeded the £1,000 limit per claim on Mr Rs warranty. The specialist dealership
confirmed that they believed the underlying cause of the problems had been contaminated
brake fluid.
Mr R had been in discussion with both the broker and Close Brothers, through much of this
period, so at this point he requested that they either pay for the repairs or allow him to reject
the car.
The business did not agree to either option, and Mr R eventually decided, while pursuing his
complaint, that he would have to get the work done himself. He got a lower priced quote
from his own mechanic and paid for the work to be done and received a partial refund from
his warranty up to the limit they would pay on one claim.
The car has been fine since, so Mr R would like Close Brothers to reimburse him for the
repair costs involved, as he feels the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was sold to
him.
Mr R initially had to pay £131.88 to the first garage, to replace the original contaminated
brake fluid. The costs of the following garage visits, before he finally paid the large bill to
replace the braking system, were covered by his warranty.
Mr R then had to pay £60 to have the car transported from the specialist garage to his own
mechanic, to have the brake system replaced, because it could not be safely driven. This
was in September 2019.
The final bill for the replacement braking system, paid in October 2019, was for £3236.83.
Mr Rs warranty then refunded him £594.40 of this, which was the remaining amount up to
the single claim limit for this problem. This left Mr R having paid £2642.43 himself for this
work.
An investigator here looked at the case and upheld Mr Rs complaint. Their view was that the
car was not of satisfactory quality. Close Brothers did not agree with this view and asked for
an Ombudsman decision. They feel that the problems did not appear until the customer had
driven the car for a period of several weeks and over 3,500 miles. They also feel that the car
was inspected and repaired at 3 different garages before they were notified, and work done
at any of these garages could not be checked, samples of brake fluid were not available to
check, and it is in the interests of these garages to hold someone else liable for the problem
with the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 March 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
The business supplied Mr R with a car that was 7 years old and had travelled 54,000 miles
when it was supplied. And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had
been supplied new.
I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might have
already suffered some wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair
and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
In this instance, the part in question is the braking system (including brake fluid). When
looking at the service record provided with the car, it is noted that the brake fluid does not
appear to have been changed since November 2014, up to the sale of the car to Mr R. Thisis despite the manufacturer recommending it is changed every two years, and the car being
sent for a service by the broker before it was supplied to Mr R.
The specialist dealership confirmed that they believe the underlying cause of the problems
with the braking system had been contaminated brake fluid, which then damaged the
braking system. At that point, they said they could only be sure of fixing the issue by
replacing the whole braking system.
Close Brothers have said that the problems with the brakes might have been caused during
the period Mr R owned the car, due to the mileage he did, and said driving style can also
impact on premature wear. I think on balance, it is most likely that contaminated brake fluid
has caused the issues with the braking system. The first garage to examine the car
diagnosed it as having contaminated brake fluid and replaced the brake fluid, and this was
within 3 months of Mr R obtaining the car.
Im not persuaded that the mileage done at this point by Mr R (approximately 3,500 miles),
or his driving style, would have led to the brake fluid becoming contaminated or caused any
other issues causing the braking system to fail. And I give weight to the specialist dealers
diagnosis, that contaminated brake fluid is most likely to have caused the braking system
problems. This fits with the other evidence provided, particularly that the first garage to see
the car had discovered the brake fluid was contaminated. No evidence has been provided
suggesting any other issues which my have caused the problems, and there is no evidence
that Mr R drove the vehicle in a way that might have caused any problems to the braking
system.
In looking at the reasons brake fluid becomes contaminated, the most common issues are
debris from the braking system building up in the fluid over time, or moisture. Moisture can
often just be tiny amounts that build up inside the sealed system over time, or sometimes
can be because the sealed system has been opened allowing moisture in.
In this instance, I accept that with hindsight, it will be impossible to be certain of what
happened to cause the brake fluid contamination. Because the fluid had been changed and
disposed of, it couldnt be checked or analysed. So, I have considered what is most likely to
have happened.
There is no evidence that any garage had looked at the car, or that Mr R had attempted to
do anything to the brake fluid or braking system, prior to his problems in April 2019, when
the first garage diagnosed brake fluid contamination. There is no evidence that moisture has
got into the brake fluid due to the sealed system being opened.
I have then considered the possibility of debris or moisture gradually building up in the
system over time. The manufacturer recommends changing the brake fluid every 2 years to
avoid problems with this type of gradual build up. There is no evidence that the brake fluid
had been changed in the previous 4 years, and it was not changed in the service arranged
by the broker immediately before Mr R obtained the car. Because of this, I think a gradual
build-up of debris or moisture is most likely to have caused the brake fluid contamination.
On balance, for the reasons given above, I am satisfied that its most likely that the brake
fluid was contaminated at the time of supply. This contamination is likely to have led to the
problems with the braking system suffered by Mr R from April 2019 onwards.
Whilst this was not supplied as a brand-new car, it didnt have excessive mileage and wasnt
particularly cheap at around £20,000. I have also noted that the broker told Mr R that the car
was being sent for a full service before they supplied it to him, and I think its reasonable to
expect that this would include replacing the brake fluid if it was due, or overdue to be
replaced. In circumstances like this I dont think a reasonable person would expect to be
supplied this car and have the expense of replacing the entire braking system at a cost inexcess of £5,000 so soon afterwards.
So, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to say that this issue is reasonably expected wear
and tear. The brake fluid contamination was most likely developing at point of sale, and this
has led to the failure of the braking system. It is more a case of an inherent defect which a
reasonable person would not have expected to be sold this car with. For these reasons, at
this stage, I agree with the Investigators view that the car was not of satisfactory quality
when it was sold to Mr R. However, I feel that the view of what needed doing to put this right
for Mr R didnt quite cover all aspects needed.
Rejecting the car or repairing it are suitable remedies under the Consumer Rights Act is
circumstances like these. The business declined the customers request to reject the car, or
to arrange the repairs. So, I have considered the costs Mr R has had to pay for repairs.
Some of these were covered by his warranty provider, but he still had to pay for the first
brake fluid change, a tow from the specialist garage to his own mechanic, and the bulk of the
final repair bill at his own mechanic.
I have also considered the period Mr R was unable to use the car, which was around 2
months in total. He has told us that he had to make alternative arrangements on many
occasions for work. Mr R has mentioned he was still paying tax and insurance costs for the
car, as well as the alternative travel costs incurred while his car was off the road. I am not
making an award specifically for these costs, as the car would need to be taxed and insured
even if the business was arranging the diagnosis and repairs.
I am however awarding the refund of 2 months car finance payments, to recognise the
period where he had no use of the car and had to pay for alternative transport as the car was
completely off the road. Mr R has not provided specific details of his alternative travel costs,
and I think its fair that he would either pay the monthly car finance payment for his travel, or
the alternative travel costs. So, in refunding the monthly car payments for 2 months, I am
recognising that instead, he paid his alternate travel costs for these periods. It wouldnt be
fair to expect him to pay both sets of costs.
I have also looked at the trouble and upset caused to Mr R. He confirmed in emails to Close
Brothers that the issue caused him considerable worry, including his employer putting
pressure on him to get a car suitable for work travel. It impacted on trips with his family
where the brakes were not working properly which caused him stress and concern. And on
top of this, there are numerous emails to all parties, all driven by Mr R, attempting to get to
the bottom of the issues, and how they could be resolved. I am also provisionally making an
award for the trouble and upset caused to him therefore.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions received by the due date, my provisional decision is that I
will be upholding the complaint. Close Brothers Limited would need to:
- pay Mr R £131.88 plus interest for the first invoice to replace contaminated brake
fluid. Interest should be 8% yearly simple interest from the date of the invoice to the
date it is paid.
- pay Mr R £60 plus interest for the invoice he paid to have the car towed from the
specialist dealership to his mechanic, to be repaired. Interest should be at 8% yearly
simple from the date of invoice to the date it is paid.
- pay Mr R £2642.43 plus interest for the cost of the repairs to the braking system he
paid. Interest should be 8% yearly simple interest from the date of invoice to the date
it is paid.
- refund Mr R 2 monthly payments for when the car was off the road for August and
September 2019. Each monthly payment was £406.80 per month, and interestshould be added at 8% yearly simple interest from the date of the August 2019 and
September 2019 payments, to the date it is paid.
- pay Mr R £250 to recognise the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused to him by
all the problems with the car and getting them sorted out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business has not responded to my provisional findings, and Mr R accepted them with no 
further comments. I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings therefore. For the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision and repeated above, I am upholding the 
complaint.   
Putting things right
Close Brothers Limited should:
- pay Mr R £131.88 plus interest for the first invoice to replace contaminated brake
fluid. Interest should be 8% yearly simple interest from the date of the invoice to the
date it is paid.
- pay Mr R £60 plus interest for the invoice he paid to have the car towed from the
specialist dealership to his mechanic, to be repaired. Interest should be at 8% yearly
simple from the date of invoice to the date it is paid.
- pay Mr R £2642.43 plus interest for the cost of the repairs to the braking system he
paid. Interest should be 8% yearly simple interest from the date of invoice to the date
it is paid.
- refund Mr R 2 monthly payments for when the car was off the road for August and
September 2019. Each monthly payment was £406.80 per month, and interest
should be added at 8% yearly simple interest from the date of the August 2019 and
September 2019 payments, to the date it is paid.
- pay Mr R £250 to recognise the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused to him by
all the problems with the car and getting them sorted out.
If Close Brothers considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Close Brothers Limited should put things 
right by paying Mr R the amounts set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman