DRN-2711365
The complaint
Mr S complains that Equifax failed to update his credit file after a credit card provider agreed 
to remove adverse information. 
  
What happened
Mr S made a complaint to a credit card provider (A) and it agreed to amend his credit file to 
remove arrears and a default reported. 
On 1 July 2020 Mr S complained by email to Equifax and got an email confirmation in 
response. But Mr S has told us he didnt hear anything further. Mr S later tried to access his 
online Equifax account but experienced difficulties with his log in. Mr S complained and 
asked Equifax to contact A to check the information reported. Mr S went on to complain 
about problems he was having logging into his account. 
On 31 July 2020 Equifax contacted A to dispute the arrears reported and it responded on 4 
August 2020. As response said No change made  information is correct and consumer to 
contact us. Please advise customer that there is no late mark on the account and the 
account is settled on 20/3/20
On 5 August 2020 Equifax queried As response and asked it to complete further checks and 
whether it could confirm the adverse information could be removed. A responded on 7 
August 2020 and said No change made  information is correct and consumer can contact 
us  we have reviewed customers account and can confirm no late mark has been added 
on the account. Account is up to date and account is settled on 20/3/20
On 12 August 2020 Equifax contacted A again. It said The customer mentioned he already 
got in touch with you and the late payment is still showing on the account. Please confirm if 
you authorise Equifax to remove the late payment. On 13 August 2020 A responded and 
said No change made  information is correct. There is no late payment marks on the 
account which is already updated on the credit file. The account was settled in March 2020 
which is reported correctly. If there is any late payment marks on the credit file, please 
remove it.
Equifax went on to correct Mr S credit file. Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it 
was passed to an investigator. They recommended Equifax pay Mr S £100 for the trouble 
and upset caused by the way it had handled his query. Equifax responded to say it didnt 
agree and that it needed confirmation from A before it could removed the disputed arrears. 
As Equifax asked to appeal, Mr S complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating the situation was for Mr S. He had a complaint against A upheld 
and expected his credit file to be updated to resolve matters. And its clear that Mr S 
regularly contacted Equifax and A to try and resolve matters. In this case, I can only look at 
Equifaxs actions and whether it handled the dispute reasonably. I can see Mr S was 
somewhat caught between two large businesses and just wanted his credit file to reflect the 
outcome of his complaint.  
As our investigator has said, Mr S first complained to Equifax  raising the nature of his 
dispute, on 1 July 2020. Mr S has forwarded an email he received from Equifax confirming 
receipt of his dispute. But nothing appears to have happened and Mr S didnt receive any 
follow up emails from Equifax in the weeks that followed. Mr S ultimately complained again 
which led to his dispute being taken forward with A. From the information Ive seen, it does 
appear there was a delay in dealing with the dispute. 
Mr S dispute was raised with A and I can see it received somewhat contradictory responses. 
All the responses Equifax received said no change was required at the top, but went on to 
say there shouldnt have been any late payments recorded. I appreciate Equifaxs point that 
it needed permission before making changes, but I think its queries to A couldve been 
clearer. For instance, whilst the first query did say Mr S had raised a dispute and sent a 
snapshot of As entry, it doesnt specifically ask for permission to remove the late payments. 
All of As responses said no change was required, but became more specific as time 
passed. A consistently said there were no late payments and that the account should report 
as up to date and settled.
Taking everything Ive seen together I agree with the investigator that Mr S dispute couldve 
been handled better. Mr S first raised his dispute with Equifax on 1 July 2020 but the 
situation wasnt resolved until the middle of August 2020. I can see how stressful Mr S found 
the matter and its clear he was upset by the late payments remaining on his credit file after 
making a successful complaint against A. In my view, £100 fairly reflects the impact of the 
situation on Mr S so Im going to endorse the investigators recommended settlement. 
I can see Mr S also complained about problems he had when trying to gain access to his 
account. There were some initial problems with Mr S online account, but Equifax was able 
to arrange working credentials that meant he was able to gain access again. Im satisfied 
Equifax dealt with this element of Mr S complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Equifax Limited to pay Mr S £100. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman