DRN-4432780
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly when it provided him with a loan which he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr S took out a loan agreement with Everyday Loans for £1,500 in May 2022. The loan was 
to be repaid over 24 months with monthly repayments of £129.52.
 
Mr S says that Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to him because he was struggling with 
other debt. He thinks Everyday Loans was negligent in allowing him to take the loans and 
asks that Everyday Loans write off the outstanding amount and remove any adverse credit 
markers from his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed.
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr 
S could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. There is no set list of checks a 
business has to do. 
In Mr Ss case, Everyday Loans has provided evidence of the checks it completed, and the 
information Mr S gave during his application. Mr S declared a net monthly salary of around 
£2,4666 a month which Everyday Loans verified by reviewing his payslips. He was living 
with his parents and paying up to £500 a month in rent. Everyday Loans carried out a credit 
check which showed Mr S had existing debt, the repayments on which were around £450 a 
month. Using Office of National Statistics data it modelled Mr Ss other expenditure at 
around £1,445 a month. It also had sight of Mr Ss bank statements and had a detailed 
conversation with him about various transactions that were evident on those statements, 
including one off payments for social events and lifestyle expenditure. Everyday Loans also 
noted that Mr S had taken out a small loan during the course of his application with it and 
asked to see evidence of the settlement. 
Mr S explained that he was using the loan to consolidate other lending and for home 
improvements. On that basis, Everyday Loans assessed that Mr Ss repayments would not 
increase more than a few pounds a month and he would not be overly indebted.
I think Everyday Loans checks were thorough. Mr S did have a poor credit history, but 
Everyday Loans noted that his recent debt management was good. Taking into account that 
Mr S was repaying some of his existing lending and that his repayments werent increasing 
significantly I think Everyday Loans completed necessary and proportionate checks and 
acted fairly on the outcome of those checks. 
In conclusion, I do not think Everyday Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to 
Mr S and so I do not think Mr S lost out as a result of anything Everyday Loans did wrong. It 
follows that I do not think Everyday Loans needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It follows that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman