DRN-3899873
The complaint
Ms N complains that her buy to let (BTL) mortgage application received a positive decision
in principle from Barclays Bank UK PLC, so she went ahead with an application through her
broker, and paid fees. But she said her income was always too low for Barclays to accept.
What happened
Ms N said she had tried previously to purchase a property which she intended to let out. In 
late 2020, a potential investment property which she had previously been interested in came 
back onto the market, so Ms N tried again. Ms Ns BTL mortgage application was eventually 
turned down by Barclays.
Ms N raised concerns about the broker who recommended the Barclays BTL mortgage. Ms
N has taken court action over these concerns, which was unsuccessful. As Ms N is aware,
our service has no jurisdiction to deal with advice given on BTL mortgage applications by
brokers, and this complaint is against Barclays, so those concerns will not form part of this
review.
But Ms N was also unhappy about what Barclays had done. She has told us that she owns
her own business, and when she made her application, her company wasnt trading due to
the pandemic. She was receiving a HMRC coronavirus job retention scheme grant. But she
said that the initial response from Barclays to her application was positive, and she wasnt
turned down until later. By this time, she had already paid a fee to Barclays, and engaged
solicitors to work on her purchase.
Ms N set out for us her income at the time. She said she initially thought her broker must
have either failed to carry out initial checks, or inflated her income, because her application
wasnt declined until a later stage. But when she input her income into Barclays online BTL
mortgage checker (designed to support applicants who are not working with a broker) it was
declined right away. Ms N said her broker told her he did do the initial checks through the
system Barclays has for broker applications, and there was no decline at that stage. She
also tells us that Barclays told her the figures were not inflated when her broker obtained a
positive decision in principle for her.
Ms N wanted to know how Barclays could have given an initial indication to her broker that
she might be accepted for a BTL mortgage, when the same figures input into Barclays
online calculator produced an instant decline. She said she wouldnt have paid the costs if
her broker had been told she was never likely to be successful.
Ms N said Barclays had offered her half her fee back, but she thought it should pay the full
fee, and more, to cover her losses. She also wanted Barclays to reimburse her for her
solicitors and broker fees, and to pay the costs of her unsuccessful court case against the
broker. Ms N has shown us these payments were made.
Ms N said that, from talking to other brokers, she felt that Barclays would also never have
accepted an application with income supported by government grants. She said Barclays
should have been upfront about that too.
Barclays said that it makes an automatic offer for BTL self-employed applications. It doesnt
decline or accept these right away. It said it had then reviewed Ms Ns information, and it
thought that her income wasnt sustainable, so it wouldnt offer her a mortgage.
Barclays said it had offered to pay Ms N back half of the fees she paid, for the inconvenience
shed experienced during her application. But Ms N didnt want to accept that. Barclays didnt
think it had made a mistake, and it wouldnt offer any more.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Barclays had followed
its own process here. It only carries out a full review of a BTL mortgage application from self-
employed applicants at the application stage, not at decision in principle stage. Our
investigator said Ms Ns broker ought to have been aware of this, he recommended Ms N
applied to Barclays, and it was his responsibility to make sure she was likely to be accepted.
Our investigator said that Barclays ultimately decided that Ms Ns income wasnt sustainable.
So it wouldnt go ahead with her application. He said Barclays had reviewed Ms Ns financial 
position fairly, and it was for Barclays to decide who it would lend to. He thought its offer of 
refunding half the fees Ms N had paid was fair. And he said that Ms Ns concern about 
Barclays likely refusal to consider an income including government grants hadnt yet been 
raised with Barclays, so we couldnt look at that.
Ms N didnt agree. She said we were favouring Barclays, and hadnt understood her
complaint. She repeated her concern, that the same application made by an individual would
be turned down right away, but Barclays wasnt declining applications made through brokers
until a later stage, when a fee had already been paid.
Ms N wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I should set out at the start that, although I currently think this complaint should be 
upheld, I dont think that means Barclays has to pay all the costs Ms N says she 
incurred. A number of the items that Ms N has listed as losses refer, in my view, to 
problems with her broker, and attempts to recover her losses from him. I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for those losses.
However, I do currently think that the core of Ms Ns argument may have some force. 
She said that the income she earned, when input into Barclays online checker for 
applicants who are not supported by a broker, produces an instant decline. But Barclays 
didnt instantly decline when Ms Ns broker made an application.
It does look to me as if Ms N has used the same figures on the online checker, as were 
used for her brokers application with Barclays. And Barclays also seems to have 
accepted this. 
Barclays says it made an automatic offer to Ms N, as a self-employed applicant, which 
then triggered a manual review. Thats because when it processes applications from 
self- employed persons, it prefers to consider the application in full, at a later stage. And 
it says that when it did so in Ms Ns case, with access to her company accounts and 
bank statements, it decided that her income wasnt sustainable, so it wasnt able to lend.But Ms N says that, if Barclays was always going to decline her application because of 
her level of income, then it should have said so right away.
I have asked Barclays if it can show us that it might have lent, on Ms Ns income, 
without the concerns about sustainability of that income which later surfaced. It hasnt 
yet demonstrated this. From what Barclays has said, it isnt clear that Ms Ns BTL 
mortgage application was likely to be successful, given her income. Although Barclays 
doesnt think it did anything wrong, Barclays also now says it can see, in Ms Ns case, 
an argument that she should have been told her application was unlikely to be 
successful at decision in principle stage.
I think that if doubts over Ms Ns likely success could have been identified at decision in 
principle stage (on the basis of the limited information Barclays had at this stage) then 
these should have been mentioned to her. And on balance, my current view is that its 
more likely than not that these doubts could have been identified at this earlier stage. I 
think Ms N has incurred some costs, because these doubts dont appear to have been 
raised by Barclays at that stage.
Barclays has offered to pay Ms N £420, which is the full amount of the fee she paid 
Barclays. I agree Barclays should do that.
I now turn to the additional losses that Ms N asked us to reimburse. As well as the fee 
Barclays charged, Ms N has asked for the following  
Mortgage broker fee: £595 this charge was actually made for a previous application. 
And even if it was charged in respect of this application, I would still say Barclays 
isnt responsible for Ms Ns choice to use a broker who charges a fee before a formal 
offer is made. So I dont think Barclays has to pay this.
Costs given to opponent: £270, Claim submission fee: £185, Court Hearing 
submission fee: £346  These costs are all related to Ms Ns unsuccessful attempt to 
recover her losses from her broker. I havent been able to see that this happened 
because of anything Barclays did. So I dont think Barclays has to pay this.
Solicitors fee: £597.60  Ms N engaged a solicitor to assist with her purchase. Whilst 
we cannot be sure that this purchase would ever have been successful, I think its 
likely that Ms N would just not have hired a solicitor if Barclays had declined her 
application at decision in principle stage.
Ms N has shown us that she paid 80% of the quoted fee, because her solicitors said 
80% of the work had already been done by the time she knew she couldnt proceed. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for her solicitors to have indicated that their 
conveyancing work was largely front-loaded, with the majority being done right away 
once the solicitors are engaged. So I think its reasonable to ask Barclays to cover 
these costs. I will ask Barclays to pay this.
Ms N has not asked for a payment of compensation, but I do think shes been put to
considerable trouble and upset here. I understand that some of this is a result of her 
difficult business relationship with her broker, but I also think much of this was likely to 
have been avoided if Barclays had raised concerns about her income at the decision in 
principle stage. So I think Barclays should pay Ms N £200, to make up for its part in the 
distress and inconvenience that this failed application caused to Ms N.Ms N also felt Barclays would always have turned her down anyway, because she had 
received government coronavirus grants, during the pandemic. I cant see that this 
played any part in Barclays decision to refuse Ms N a mortgage. And I have already 
said I think Ms Ns complaint should be upheld for other reasons. So I dont think it 
would be appropriate for me to address a further, hypothetical concern about Ms Ns 
application here.
This decision is provisional, and could change if either side offers further argument or
evidence, but at the moment, this is what I think would provide a fair and reasonable
outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it would agree to pay the amount Id suggested. Ms N said she was pleased Id 
suggested she should receive the valuation fee, solicitors costs and compensation. But she 
felt that she should be awarded more, which she thought should be paid both by Barclays 
and by her broker. 
Ms N said that when her broker input her self-employed income figures onto the Barclays 
broker system, she should have received the same answer that she got through Barclays 
self-service system on its own website  a decline. She didnt think her broker should have 
been able to submit her application.
Ms N said Barclays says the self-employed are treated differently for mortgage applications, 
but the self-employed can use the affordability calculator and see whether the property is 
affordable. And in this case, the property in question was not affordable - it came up as a 
straight decline. Ms N said Id noted Barclays hadnt produced any evidence that the 
property would have been affordable for her, which she felt supports this.
Ms N told us she was also dissatisfied with another area of Barclays operations, and would 
be ending her association with the bank. She still felt Barclays were making money out of 
consumers, especially during a vulnerable time, during the peak of the pandemic when 
businesses and the self-employed were hugely affected.
Ms N said it was a key point in her court case against her broker, that Barclays had let the 
broker submit the application. She said that was why this chain of events had occurred. 
Ms N also still thought that Barclays wasnt being transparent. She was sure it wouldnt 
approve any applicants who had been supported by government grants in the pandemic, 
and this was the main reason she was declined. So she felt Barclays needed to make it clear 
in its guidelines on its website that it didnt accept government grants as income, from the 
self-employed, so that there is transparency in the process. She said again, Barclays was 
misleading customers here. 
Ms N felt that the brokerage she used (which I wont name here) should be held accountable 
for this as well. She couldnt complain about the brokerage, because a court hearing had 
already taken place. But Ms N said that Barclays should pay her all of her costs and ask the 
brokerage to partly reimburse it in turn.Ms N noted that the broker she had dealt with had since left that brokerage, but she said the 
brokerage should still be held responsible, especially because it had tried to protect the 
broker. She discussed the brokers conduct at the hearing, and suggested Barclays should 
be prevented from engaging with this brokerage in future. 
Ms N wanted all the costs shed previously discussed returned to her, and she said there 
was also an interest element to the case. She wanted Barclays, or perhaps Barclays and the 
brokerage, to pay 91p per day in interest for the time her complaint had been outstanding. 
Ms N also wanted the brokerage fee back. Ms N said she knew this brokerage fee was 
related to a previous application, and she hadnt been charged for the application which is 
the subject of this complaint. But she said the brokerage wasnt deserving of this money due 
to the circumstances. And Ms N said she wasnt able to go ahead with either of her two 
mortgage applications, which wasnt her fault. She said shed been through a lot, and had 
spent time trying to recover her money. 
In total, Ms N wanted Barclays to pay  
Barclays valuation fee: £420
Solicitors fee: £597.60
Compensation: £200
Broker fee: £595
Costs given to opponent (broker): £270
Claim submission fee: £185
Court Hearing submission fee: £346
Interest: 8%, 91 pence (daily) 
Ms N said she wanted to claim interest starting either on the date when Barclays turned 
down her mortgage application, or the date when she complained to the broker, until either 
the date of the hearing, or the present. 
Ill look at each of Ms Ns points in turn. 
Firstly, I should set out the scope of my decision. Our service isnt a regulator, and Im not 
looking here at Barclays overall conduct as a mortgage lender. Im only looking at what 
happened in Ms Ns case. Its not part of my role to tell Barclays to treat other customers 
differently in future, or how to run its business, going forward. Thats outside the scope of 
this complaint. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment here on the changes Ms N 
suggested Barclays should make to the brokers it chooses to engage with, to its broker 
portal, or to its website. 
Returning to the specifics of Ms Ns case, my findings were that in this case, it seemed more 
likely than not that doubts over Ms Ns chances of making a successful mortgage application 
could have been identified at decision in principle stage. And if so, I said these doubts 
should have been mentioned to her then. I think its important to clarify that I didnt decide 
that Ms Ns application ought to have been prevented from proceeding, so Ive not agreed 
with Ms N on that point.
I also said in my provisional decision that I couldnt see that Ms Ns receipt of coronavirus 
grants was one of the reasons shed been turned down for lending. I still think that, so I still 
dont think its appropriate to comment further on an issue that doesnt seem to me to be to 
have been raised by the circumstances of this case. 
I also explained that this case is brought against Barclays. I set out in my provisional 
decision that I have no powers here to consider actions taken by Ms Ns broker. That also means I have no powers to require it to contribute to any award made to Ms N. Nor do I think 
it would be appropriate to suggest that to Barclays. 
I also set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think it was appropriate to ask Barclays 
to pay for either Ms Ns brokerage fee, or the costs involved in her court case against the 
broker. I still think that, so I wont repeat those views here.
Ms N is also now asking for an award of interest, which she had worked out for her case 
against the broker at 91 pence per day. Its not clear what this interest charge is based on 
(and Ive already said a number of the costs Ms N is seeking to recover arent things I can 
fairly ask Barclays to pay). But I havent sought to clarify this with Ms N, as I dont think a 
payment of interest would be appropriate in this case. Ill explain why I think that.
I am asking Barclays to refund to Ms N some costs which shed previously paid, so I do 
appreciate that shes been out of pocket for a while. But I think much of the delay in Ms N 
recovering these costs happened because Ms N chose initially to pursue a complaint against 
her broker in the courts, rather than bring a complaint against Barclays to our service. So I 
dont think this is a case where it would be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to add the 
interest that Ms N would like to the award. 
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Ms N £420 to refund its fees, 
£597.60 to cover solicitors fees, and £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman