DRN-2609121
The complaint
 Mrs F complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, acted irresponsibly when it increased 
the limits on her credit on several occasions.
 
What happened
 Mrs F had an Aqua credit card which shed taken out in 2012 with an initial limit of £250. 
NewDay increased the limit on this card several times so that by January 2016 it was 
£4,750. Mrs F says NewDay was irresponsible in offering these increases as it was clear she 
was running her account at the maximum of her credit limit and over reliant on credit.
In 2015 Mrs F application for a Marbles credit card with NewDay. The application was 
accepted with an initial credit limit of £900. This was increased to £1,700 in October 2015 
and increased again in August 2016 to £2,700. She says these increases were unaffordable. 
Mrs F got into financial difficulties in October 2016. She feels NewDay was irresponsible in 
increasing her credit limit as it did and that this had worsened her financial problems. She 
would now like NewDay to refund all interest and charges on her accounts.
NewDay rejected the complaint. It said when it issues a credit card it takes into account the 
information on the application as well as information available from other sources such as 
credit reference agencies. However, its cards are marketed at consumers with a less than 
perfect credit history so its not unusual to see some adverse history on some applications. It 
has a low and grow policy in that it starts with a low initial balance which can be increased 
depending on how the consumer manages the card.
It said Mrs Fs Aqua card had an initial low credit limit of £200. The first increase was at Mrs 
Fs request and she had then accepted all the subsequent ones without raising any 
concerns. It felt Mrs F had been managing her account appropriately and there were no 
missed or late payments to suggest she was having difficulty in maintaining the payments.
NewDay felt it had carried out appropriate checks before issuing the Marbles card. This 
included checking her income and employment status and other sources. Mrs F had said 
she was employed with an income of £14,000 and access to other household income of 
£36,000. It hadnt seen any indicators to show Mrs F was having financial problems at this 
time and considered its decision to accept the application was reasonable. It didnt agree it 
had been irresponsible.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said she felt NewDay had carried out 
appropriate checks before issuing the credit cards and there were no obvious indicators to 
suggest Mrs F was struggling to meet her payments even after the increases had been 
agreed. For that reason, she wouldnt be asking NewDay to do anything more.
Mrs F disagreed and maintained her view that NewDay hadnt carried out appropriate 
checks before offering the increases on her cards. She asked for her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
On 15 January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following points:
The crux of this complaint was whether NewDay had carried out adequate checks before 
deciding to increase Mrs Fs borrowing on her credit cards. While there was no specific list of 
checks a lender must carry out before deciding to offer a credit card account, or to increase 
a credit limit, the checks in each case needed to be appropriate to the product and 
proportionate to the amount that was being borrowed. And this applied each time lending 
limit was increased to ensure that the additional borrowing was affordable.
Some of Mrs Fs complaints went back to 2012. However, under the rules that govern what 
complaints we can accept we were not able to look at issues that had arisen more than 6 
years ago, or more than three years from when the consumer could reasonably have known 
there was a cause for complaint unless there were exceptional circumstances. In this case I 
considered that the time would start to run on each card from when the card was first issued 
and then at the point of each subsequent credit increase and, on that basis, I could only look 
at those events that happened after January 2014.
I noted that the first relevant increase on Mrs Fs Aqua card was in October 2014. At this 
point the limit was increased from £1,400 to £2,150. This was followed by the following 
increases
March 2015 to £2,900
August 2015 to £3,650 
January 2016 to £4,750.
It was clear from the statements that Mrs F was running this card at the maximum of her 
lending and that every time the limit was increased, Mrs Fs borrowing also increased to the 
maximum of the new limit. While Mrs F managed to maintain her monthly payments up until 
October 2016 it was clear that her balance wasnt reducing over this time with the result that 
she was having to pay more and more in interest each month to keep her account in credit.
The guidance on Credit Card Limit Increases issued by the UK Cards Association says that 
one of the indicators that should be taken into account before an increase is offered is 
paying the minimum over an extended period and possibly across multiple credit/store 
cards, particularly with high balance/ limit utilisations.
On that basis, I consider that the way Mrs F was running her account was a significant risk 
indicator as regarding her ability to sustain further increases, either on this card or any other 
product.
In June 2015 NewDay accepted Mrs Fs application for a second credit card. In her 
application Mrs F had stated that she had an income of £14,000 with access to a further 
income of £36,000. There were also no late pay or missed payments to suggest she was in 
financial difficulty at this time. In the circumstances I did not consider it was irresponsible in 
itself to have issued Mrs F with this card at that time.
The notes on Mrs Fs application, however, noted that she had high indebtedness. This, 
together with Mrs Fs significant credit liability at this time, should have raised concerns 
about the affordability of any future increases in her borrowing. And it was clear that the 
issue of this card, and the subsequent increases on both cards, did increase Mrs Fs 
borrowing considerably without any apparent checks being made to see if her income was 
increasing in line with this.As a result, Mrs Fs borrowing increased significantly within a relatively short time as the 
table below shows:
Aqua Marbles Total borrowing 
May 2015 £2,900 0 £2,900
June 2015 £2,900 £900 £3,800
August 2015 £3,650 £900 £4,550
October 2015 £3,650 £1,700 £5,350
January 2016 £4,750 £1,700 £6,450
August 2016 £4,750 £2,700 £7,450
It was clear from this that the combined increases on the two credit cards resulted in a 
significant increase in Mrs Fs borrowing between June 2015 and August 2016. And the fact 
that Mrs F fell into financial difficulties on both cards in October 2016 suggests these later 
increases were not affordable or sustainable.
While I had taken into account what NewDay had said about its low and grow policy and 
why it considered the increases were reasonable, I considered that Mrs Fs high 
indebtedness and the way shed been managing her Aqua card should have prompted some 
additional enquiries into her income and expenditure before these increases were offered., 
including why, if she had access to an income of over £36,000, she wasnt using it to reduce 
her overall balance, which by now had increased considerably.
This was particularly the case with the increases which came in automatically unless a 
customer proactively declined to accept them. For that reason, it was important that the 
business satisfied itself that any increase was affordable before it was offered to the 
consumer. In Mrs Fs case I wasnt satisfied that NewDay had carried out sufficient checks 
before offering the later increases and that this additional borrowing had therefore 
contributed to her financial problems. On that basis, I proposed that NewDay should refund 
all interest and charges its applied to Mrs Fs Aqua and Marbles accounts from August 2015 
onwards together with interest at 8% from the date of payment to the date of refund and also 
remove all adverse information about both accounts from Mrs Fs credit file from August 
2015 onwards.
Both Mrs F and NewDay have responded to my provisional decision. Mrs F has accepted 
the recommendations I proposed.  
In its response NewDay made a number of points as follows:
before October 2016, Mrs Fs account were well managed with payments being 
made on time, and that there was nothing to suggest she couldnt meet her 
payments. It didnt accept that the high level of indebtedness or the way Mrs F was 
using her card indicated that the additional borrowing wasnt affordable. It appeared 
Mrs F had become unwell around October 2016 and that it was this, and not the 
increases in her credit limit, that had caused the problems with her account.
it submitted that the refund of the interest and charges should be limited to those 
occurring immediately before her account fell into arrears, that is from August 2016 
and not August 2015. 
It said that the interest on the refund would usually apply where the account had 
been cleared in full each month but in this case that had happened and that Mrs F 
had therefore had the benefit of the goods and services purchased on credit but not 
fully paid for them. It didnt feel this should apply on this case.  New Day said it had a legal obligation to ensure the information provided to the credit 
reference agencies was accurate. It noted that Mrs F had failed to make any 
payments on her Aqua card between February and July 2017 or on her Marbles card 
between March and July 2017, not even a reduced amount and felt it would be 
irresponsible not to report this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken the comments from both Mrs F and NewDay into account but having done so I 
havent seen anything to cause me to change my view that NewDay hadnt made 
appropriate checks to ensure that the increases in Mrs Fs credit limit from August 2015 
were affordable and that this contributed to Mrs Fs financial problems.
The records show that Mrs F was running her cards at or near the maximum of her credit 
limit and that she had been doing so for some time. The effect of this is that the consumer is 
in effect paying a much higher amount interest for the borrowing without actually reducing 
the capital sum outstanding. That is noted as a risk against further credit limit increases in 
the guidance on Credit Card Limit Increases issued by the UK Cards Association and should 
have acted as an indicator that further checks would be appropriate. 
While NewDay has said the impact of making the minimum payment is set out on the 
monthly statements and its for the customer to decide how to pay the outstanding balance, 
NewDay also has a responsibility to ensure that the customer is able to afford any further 
increases. 
NewDay has said Mrs F had a reasonable income and access to a further £36,000. But 
having access to income is not the same as having control over it and I cant see that any 
checks were made as to whether Mrs F would be able to use this towards her own 
borrowing. In Mrs Fs case the notes show that Mrs F already had a high level of 
indebtedness at the time the second card was issued and it seems to me that this should 
have cautioned against making significant further increases without first making sure Mrs F 
was in a position to afford them.
As has been said before, the increases took her borrowing from £3,800 in June 2015 to 
£7,450 by August 2016. Thats an increase of almost 100% over a 15-month period and I 
consider that this should have prompted more detailed and specific checks on the 
affordability of such increases. And the fact Mrs F went into financial difficulties in October 
2016 suggests that the later increases werent affordable.
For that reason, I remain of the view that the increases after August 2015 werent affordable.
However, taking into account the additional information provided, Ive come to a slightly 
different view as to what NewDay needs to do to put matters right. Mrs F already had an 
outstanding balance of £3,800 in August 2015. It wouldnt be reasonable to ask NewDay to 
refund all of the additional interest and charges after that date. Instead I consider that it 
would be reasonable for NewDay to rework Mrs Fs account to deduct any interest and 
charges relating to the increases after that date. Any refund should then be used to reduce 
any outstanding balance. If the refunds are greater than the amount still outstanding the 
balance should be repaid to Mrs F.NewDay should also check for any periods when Mrs Fs payments would have been 
enough to clear her balances and, if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple interest 
on any periods when Mrs F would have been in credit. 
Instructing a business to remove adverse credit information from a customers credit file is a 
course of action that this service has the remit to make, and one which I consider to be fair 
and reasonable when considering the circumstances of this complaint. As I consider the 
increases after June 2015 were irresponsible, I can find no reason why it wouldnt be fair to 
instruct NewDay to remove the adverse information on Mrs Fs credit file that has arisen 
from this irresponsible lending.
This is slightly different to what was set out in my provisional decision but I think it is fair and 
reasonable. And because the change is minor, I consider that it is appropriate to continue to 
a final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua 
to:
refund the interest and charges applied to Mrs Fs account above the £3,800 credit 
limit in June 2015 and rework her credit card accounts. Any such refunds should be 
applied to reduce Mrs Fs outstanding balances. If NewDay deducts any income tax 
from this amount, it must provide the necessary certificate to Mrs F.
check for any periods when Mrs Fs payments would have been enough to clear her 
balances and, if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple interest on any 
periods when Mrs F would have been in credit. 
remove any adverse information from Mrs Fs credit file relating following the credit 
limit increases in June 2015.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman