DRN-2151225
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Santander UK Plc. He says that it caused delays in the transfer 
of his pension funds.
What happened
Mr G wanted to access funds from his pension as he reached 55 years of age. He contacted 
his independent financial adviser (IFA) to assist him with this and review his pension options. 
Mr G wanted access to cash to assist his recuperation after a period of serious ill-health.
Mr G held a retirement investment account with Santander worth over £24,000. He 
contacted them in March 2019 and requested a transfer quote which was sent to him. In 
June 2019 he requested a retirement quote which was also sent to his home address.
In August 2019, Mr G contacted Santander and asked if paperwork had been received by 
them. Santander said that it hadnt received anything and re-sent the retirement options 
pack. The pension value and pension options were also discussed during this call. Mr G said 
that he had spoken with his IFA who seemed to have missed this plan in its review. He 
explained which option he wished to take. Mr G said he would speak with his IFA before 
confirming what he wanted to do.
Mr G called back later that same day and said that he had spoken with his IFA who said that 
a letter of authority had been sent to Santander around two weeks earlier. Santander said 
that nothing had been received.
Mr G called back in September and asked if anything had been received, he said that his 
IFA had sent the forms last week. But Santander said it hadnt received a letter of authority 
although it could take seven days to process incoming correspondence.
Mr G made further calls on 30 September, but Santander suggested he wait a couple of 
days for anything to appear on their system.
The IFA did send a letter of authority on 11 October 2019 and this was received on 17 
October. Santander confirmed receipt to Mr G in a call he made on 18 October and said it 
would be processed within 5 working days.
Mr G spoke with Santander again on 4 November when he discussed his options. After 
further discussions with Santander, Mr G decided to transfer his funds to another provider. 
Santander received his transfer request dated 29 November on 2 December 2019.
On 10 December Santander wrote to Mr G telling him that it couldnt proceed with the 
transfer as the receiving business hadnt signed the transfer forms. This was resolved and 
funds were sent on 2 January 2020.
Mr G complained to Santander about its handling of the transfer. The complaint was referred 
to this service where it was considered by an investigator. He didnt think that it should be 
upheld. He wasnt satisfied that Santander had caused any significant delays.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that numerous forms had been sent to Santander and it must 
have lost them. He had received no apology for its failure in service which had occurred at a 
very difficult time for him.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Gs ill-health and I wish him well.
Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning, I dont uphold 
this complaint. There is very little that I can add to what he has already said.
Mr G started the process in March 2019, and it wasnt completed until January 2020. So, I 
can understand his frustration and I can understand that this would have been exacerbated 
by his poor health at the time. However, Im not satisfied that there is clear evidence that 
Santander did cause any significant delay in the transfer.
Mr Gs IFA has told us that it sent forms dated 11 October 2019 which were received by 
Santander and a response sent.
Mr G says that due to the administrative delays of Santander he decided to deal with this 
transfer personally. The IFA told us that it was intending to advise him on his options, but Mr 
G had been unhappy about the likely costs and so decided to deal with this personally. I 
agree with the investigator that what the IFA said seems consistent with the timeline 
afterwards and with the issues Mr G discussed directly with Santander. 
Once Mr G began to discuss his options with Santander, Im satisfied that it acted with 
reasonable speed. There was a delay in December after the transfer forms were received, 
but this seems to be primarily due to an omission by the receiving business, and not 
Santander.
It may be the case that some correspondence went missing before October 2019, but Ive 
not seen any compelling evidence that this was down to any error by Santander.
I do appreciate Mr Gs frustration and upset at what must have been a very difficult time for 
him. But I can only uphold a complaint where a business has done something wrong. Im not 
satisfied that is the case here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman