DRN-4033325
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc added a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Santander said that it received a report that a credit for £1,600 paid into Mr As account on 7 
January 2020 had been obtained fraudulently. The money had been withdrawn. It had 
considered Mr As explanation at the time but decided it had grounds to close his account 
and register the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A had told her hed lost 
his card at around this time and didnt have knowledge about the money. But there was only 
one device set up to access mobile banking and which used biometric identification. This 
was accessed at the time the funds had been received. And the majority of the money was 
taken out in a branch using the card and PIN. She thought that Mr A was complicit in what 
happened. And so, Lloyds had acted reasonably when it added the marker and closed       
Mr As account.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that anyone could have 
hacked his account. And he had written confirmation that he was away at university at the 
time and so couldnt have been in the relevant branch. Hed lost his bank card in November 
2019 and been told to change his address to that at his university. Mr A said he hadnt told 
our adjudicator that hed lost his card at the time the funds had been received. Hed 
downloaded the app to his phone at the end of 2019. But hed not been able to use it and 
had contacted branch staff about this. He now thinks that this is because someone else was 
using it. In January 2020 he tried to pay for something with his card and this was declined. 
And he was then told his account had been closed. He had been in touch with police and 
believes that the key CCTV evidence hadnt been kept and which would show that the 
person who went to withdraw funds wasnt him
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
I also need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, 
Santander needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The 
evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I think that some confusion may have arisen about the timeline of what happened here, and 
Ive noted the information that Santander has provided including audits of transactions and 
of log ins to Mr As account online.
It records he reported a card lost in November 2019. This was replaced and he collected 
this from a branch near to his university. He was also sent a PIN. He used this card to 
make payments and also paid a credit of £230 into his account on 31 December 2019. The 
records show the chip on his card was read and his PIN entered to do so.
The fraudulent payment of £1,600 was received on 7 January 2020. A withdrawal was 
made the following day in a branch for £1,480 and one at a cash machine for £300 at the 
same location and time. After that there was about £40 left in the account which was used 
for smaller card payments.
On 8 January 2020 Santander received a call from someone who said he was Mr A but 
couldnt pass security. Ive listened to the call recording. That person wanted to block the 
account and was vague about whether the card had been lost. And whether hed used it to 
take out cash. That person said that he had paid in money at the end of December. The 
card was blocked. Im struggling to see that anyone other than Mr A would have made this 
call.
Mr A says he was unable to access the mobile app and thinks someone else was doing so 
on 7 and 8 January 2020. Santander says that access was first made using his online 
banking credentials and then biometric identification. It has no record of him visiting a 
branch to report problems accessing the app.
A new card was issued on 13 January 2020 and was to be collected from the branch near 
to his university
Mr A later wrote a letter to Santander about what happened and said he returned to 
university on Saturday 11 January 2020. A student loan credit was paid into his account on 
13 January 2020. And he says he tried to access those funds with his card but was told his 
account had been closed. The credit of £1,600 had been reported as fraudulently obtained 
on 14 January 2020. This may be why Mr A thinks he was at university when this 
happened but as Ive set out the payment came earlier.
Im satisfied that the withdrawals from his account were authenticated with his details. They 
didnt require access to online banking. And the branch and cash machine withdrawals 
were made when the chip on his genuine card was read, and the correct PIN entered. I 
need to decide if he consented to the payments.
Mr A has wanted to clarify when he might had lost a card. But his position must be that he 
didnt have his card on 8 January 2020. What I am unclear about is how an unknown 
person would be able to discover his PIN which on the evidence he hadnt used for over a 
week. Although he also says someone accessed his account online that would have 
required his security information and again it is unclear how that would have been 
compromised too. The record of activity online doesnt show his PIN was accessed. It 
would be a particular risk for a fraudster to take out money in a branch as the card loss 
may have been reported and they might fail to meet security requirements. CCTV isnt 
available here. In any event if it was a third party as Mr A says then CCTV wouldnt resolve whether that person was acting with his authority or not and thats irrespective of whether 
Mr A was at university at the time or not too. 
Having balanced all the information I think it most likely that Mr A authorised the money 
being withdrawn and that finding doesnt rule out him allowing someone else to use his 
account. As a result, I find he was complicit in the receipt of and access to fraudulently 
obtained money. He doesnt seek to say he was entitled to this money.
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. Any 
filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial 
crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Santander at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
In light of this it closed the account in line with the terms and conditions. I appreciate what  
Mr A says about the impact of the marker for him but Im afraid I dont have a basis to 
require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman