DRN-1958765
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Advancis Limited, trading as Buddy Loans, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs B was given a guarantor loan by Buddy Loans in August 2018 for £2,000. Mrs Bs loan 
was to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £98. The total amount due to be repaid 
over the three-year loan term, including interest, was just over £ 3,514. I understand Mrs B is 
still repaying the loan.
Mrs B says she had a gambling problem at the time she applied for the loan. She complains 
Buddy Loans failed to carry out proportionate affordability checks or review her bank 
statements. She thinks had Buddy Loans done so, it would have seen that it shouldnt have 
lent to her. So, she says this lending is irresponsible.
One of our investigators has looked into the complaint. He didnt think Buddy Loans should 
have provided Mrs B with the loan and he asked the lender to put things right. Buddy Loans 
didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs B 
irresponsibly.
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs B was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B in some other way?
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs B. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs B. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mrs B for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs B would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 
Buddy Loans had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as 
the loan amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers 
overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); 
and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Buddy Loans asked Mrs B for information about her income and expenditure and it acquired 
a credit report. Buddy Loans has told us it performs a number of checks to confirm the 
information provided by the borrower. It thinks that the checks it carried out before it agreed 
to lend to Mrs B were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for her. 
But I dont think its enough for a lender to simply carry out checks. I would expect a lender 
to respond appropriately to the information it gathers when assessing a customers 
application for lending. 
The information gathered by Buddy Loans from its credit report showed that in the previous 
six months, Mrs B had borrowed around £28,600 across five unsecured loans. She had 
added a £4,500 overdraft facility on one of her current accounts and the balance stood at 
around £4,350. She had also increased the overdraft facility on another current account from 
£300 to £1,500. So, I think that Buddy Loans ought to have been aware of a real risk that 
Mrs Bs dependency on credit could  or had already  become unsustainable. 
Mrs B pre-empted Buddy Loans questions about her income and expenditure by first 
explaining that her husband earnt significantly more than she did and as such, he covered all 
the household expenses from his income. Buddy Loans accepted this at face value, without 
further verification or evidence and did not challenge her further about how much she 
contributed towards the household spend. As a result, it overrode the checks in place as part 
of its electronic validation system. I think fair to say that, given her recent number of 
applications, Mrs B was likely to have been familiar with the sort of information Buddy Loans 
would ask as part of its application process. So, in my opinion, not checking further that she 
didnt contribute at all towards the household spend and accepting it at face-value was a 
poor decision in the circumstances. I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that in order for its affordability 
checks to be fair, reasonable and proportionate, they needed to be more detailed and 
contain a greater degree of independent verification.
Buddy Loans has told us it had verified Mrs Bs income and it doesnt think additional checks 
were necessary. The rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or 
expenditure into account, it is not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of 
those matters made by the customer. I appreciate that Buddy Loans had acquired a credit 
report and it thinks it should fairly rely on the information that Mrs B provided at the time. But 
as I explained above, I think Buddy Loans ought to have reasonably sought a more detailed 
understanding of Mrs Bs financial position in order to assess whether shed be able to 
sustainably repay her loan over the extended loan term. So, as well as asking Mrs B about 
the details of her income and expenditure, I think Buddy Loans should have carried out more 
detailed checks into Mrs Bs financial circumstances  for example, as she ran her own 
business and had only traded for around 18 months, by asking to see her bank statements.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the checks Buddy Loans did before agreeing to 
lend to Mrs B were fair, reasonable or proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Mrs B has provided us with copies of her bank statements leading up to her application to 
Buddy Loans, so I can determine what better checks might have shown Buddy Loans at that 
time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of course, 
different checks might show different things. But I think if Buddy Loans had carried out what I 
consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more about 
Mrs Bs financial position. In particular I think it more likely than not Buddy Loans would have 
realised that Mrs B was regularly gambling very considerable amounts of money.
Buddy Loans says it thinks the loan was affordable for Mrs B, based on its analysis of her 
income and expenditure. But as Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to 
establish whether Mrs B could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
I think if Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs B was having serious 
difficulties managing her finances and that she was most likely borrowing as a result of her 
gambling  and would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay her loan from 
Buddy Loans (given that is what she was intending to do on this occasion and repay another 
lender). I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs B 
would be able to sustainably repay her loan. So it should reasonably have concluded that it 
was not appropriate to lend to her.
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having reviewed the matter carefully, I dont 
find that Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B in some other way.But I dont think Buddy Loans should have provided the loan to her. So I am upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs B in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mrs B 
was given the loan and she used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mrs B back in the position she would be in if 
she hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
Instead, I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Buddy Loans should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The payments 
Mrs B made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mrs 
B has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then any surplus should 
be treated as overpayments and refunded to her.
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Mrs B to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Buddy Loans should give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Advancis Limited should 
put things right for Mrs B in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman