DRN-4521097
The complaint
Mrs B complained about the service provided by Marshall Wooldridge Financial Services 
Limited (MW) in respect of her pension arrangement.
What happened
Mrs B started her client relationship with MW in 2011 in respect of providing financial advice 
on pension funds derived from a legal order.
Weve been provided with various documents. These include an advisers charge agreement 
signed by Mrs B in 2013. This confirms the charges and the initial and ongoing service 
provision at that time. The 2013 document included the following, which was referred to by 
our Investigator. Mrs B stressed the contents more recently:
- An annual review by phone, email, or face to face
- To review ongoing goals and objectives
- Explanations of changes to legislation, taxation rules and the economy
- Advice on budgeting, debt management, estate planning and insurance options
- Review your investments and implement any changes required. This includes 
reviewing the asset allocation, your attitude to risk and providing a portfolio valuation
- Access to our client team who will respond and deal with ad hoc queries
- Liaise with other professionals as required e.g., third parties such as solicitors and 
accountants
- Regular support and contact
- Maintain your records and keep these up to date
- 0.5% charge (so £500 based on £100,000)
Further documents provided to this service have included meeting and review records, 
emails, several signed client agreements (without the terms on charges and service 
provision) from later years, and a terms of business document from 2021 (which differs to 
the 2013 document and including in the way services are referred to and there is reference 
to a 1% charge).
Mrs Bs complaint
In early 2023 Mrs B complained to MW, referencing a fall in the value of her pension and 
other matters, including her unhappiness with MWs contact and service. She terminated the 
advisory relationship.
Mrs B contacted us as she wasnt happy with MWs response to her complaint. She told us 
that she had discovered at her annual review in January 2023 the fall in the value of her 
pension fund (during November 2021 to November 2022) and she was unhappy about this 
and that she hadnt been contacted by MW at all during this time to discuss the performance 
and to review her options. Mrs B considered the fall in value had been unusual based on her 
understanding of market performance. She says that during her annual review in January 
2023 her advisor told her he was shocked when looking at the performance of her fund. It 
does not appear this comment is accepted by MW.
Mrs B has gone on to tell us more about her dis-satisfaction with MW. In summary she 
complains that she has been told MW do not monitor fund performance outside of the annual 
review, but that they do monitor things more frequently for most of their clients. She also 
says she has been told by two non-MW advisers that they would expect more regular fund 
monitoring from an adviser.
Mrs B also said she wasnt happy that at her annual review in January 2023 MW advised her 
to change her investments, but this advice was retracted shortly afterwards, and she was 
advised to remain as she was invested until the financial markets recovered.
Mrs B didnt think MW answered her concerns adequately. She thought they viewed her 
expectations to be unrealistic. 
Mrs B also let us know that her enquiries had led her to find out she had been given the 
wrong information regularly since 2017 in MWs annual review reports. This included in 
respect of her fund value, and the number of units held. In addition she highlighted the 
inclusion of a graph intended to be used as a benchmark, which Mrs B said MW had 
accepted was inappropriate.
She said she understood what MW said about this investing being a longer-term proposition 
and that it was not focussed on short term volatility but felt there must be a stage where 
consideration ought to be given to changing an investment. In any event, she said this 
thinking did not mean MW didnt have a duty to monitor investments and contact a client to 
discuss options when there was a fall in value (which she continues to believe did not match 
the sectors performance). Overall she complained:
MW didnt monitor performance regularly
MW failed to meet their service agreement obligations when it came to appropriate or 
timely communication
She was given inaccurate information on value and units since 2017
Advice she was given in early 2023 was conflicting
MWs response to complaint
In March 2023 MW replied to Mrs Bs complaint. They apologised for a lack of contact in the 
preceding 12 months during turbulent market conditions. They felt they could have done 
more to reassure her, both in respect of market activity and on the approach here, that doing 
nothing was sometimes the best option.
MW rejected the main thrust of the complaint. They considered the change in the value of 
her pension reflected wider market volatility but fitted into an overall picture of growth. They 
said their advice had been suitable and this had been reviewed with her annually. MW didnt 
accept they ought to have been completing individual checks and reviews of her pension 
more frequently.
They explained the reason why a particular benchmark was sent out to clients and said it 
was not inappropriate. They accepted Mrs B had been sent the wrong fact sheet in a mailing 
and apologised. MW didnt accept their recent advice in 2023 on investing had been wrong 
and explained why they said they had been highlighting a newly available alternative.MW went on to tell us they felt that over the investment period Mrs B received adequate 
service and overall excellent performance from the returns on her investment. Her pension 
assets had risen in value from £125,288 to £220,731 over an 11-year investment period 
(providing an annual growth of just below 7%). They went on to say that over 10 of the 11 
years the fund had shown positive returns including 10% in the year 2020-21. It was only in 
one full year of investment that the value had fallen, and they said it was this that had 
prompted Mrs Bs complaint.
Overall they continue to stress Mrs B did not suffer a loss over the whole period of 
investment and had simply experienced a short-term impact as a consequence of volatility. 
This is something they consider typical and in-line with investing over the longer term. 
However they told us that as a gesture of goodwill they wanted to offer Mrs B £250.
Mrs Bs response to MWs offer
Mrs B did not accept the offer from MW. She didnt think they had answered all her points. In 
addition she did not think £250 compensated her for the additional losses she asserts she 
has sustained as a result of poor service, and this includes the annual service fee. She 
stressed to us these funds were the result of life work and this is the pot on which her future 
life depends.
Investigators view
Our investigator thought MWs offer of £250 was enough and explained why they had 
reached this view.
Mrs Bs response to view
Mrs B did not agree and sent through further information and submissions. In summary she 
remains dis-satisfied with the poor performance of her pension funds, and failures in the 
service provided. Mrs B says she has worked since the age of 15 to afford such a fund and 
told us it is the only pension she has to determine her financial future and she has been left 
unable to trust any financial experts. She doesnt think MW provided a competent service 
over a number of years. In particular she says that regular contact ought to have included 
discussions on performance (whether instigated by her or otherwise) and that because this 
didnt happen, this can be linked to financial loss. She also wanted us to require MW to 
change the way they provide their service.
MWs response
MW didnt accept they ought to do anything further. They accepted values they had sent 
from 2017 had been wrong. They explained this was because Mrs Bs reviews needed to be 
produced manually. 
MW stressed this administrative error did not impact the actual performance of her funds, or 
the service she was otherwise provided with. In addition they noted Mrs B also received 
annual valuations from the provider, and these would have had the correct value. They 
indicated this fund is not Mrs Bs sole asset or pension and didnt accept Mrs Bs comments 
about this. They also noted contacted in May 2022, and investments had not changed.
Provisional decision
On 9 November 2023 I issued a provisional decision. This wasnt because I disagreed with 
the investigator, however I hoped it would assist parties to understand my thinking. In addition I had seen MW previously suggested that if Mrs B didnt accept their offer it would 
lapse. It didnt appear to me that MW disagreed with the Investigators view but taking 
everything into account I considered it appropriate to share my intended decision to enable 
any new submissions to be provided. I indicated I intended to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in 
part and require MW to pay her £250.
Responses to my provisional decision
MW did not respond to my provisional decision. I am satisfied it was received by them as it 
was sent to the contact details used throughout the time this case has been at this service.
Mrs B was disappointed with my provisional decision. She felt I had not sufficiently 
addressed her belief that the service agreement is ambiguous and could be understood in 
the way she says she interpreted it. Mrs B accepts it is not the role of this service to tell MW 
to change the way they operate and understands what I have explained about this and any 
wider concerns. She let me know this desired change is at the heart of her dissatisfaction.
Mrs B continued to stress the areas of complaint she has raised. She accepts her 
expectations in respect of an annual review were met but continues to think MW didnt 
monitor regular contact as she says their service agreement and the nature of the 
relationship required them to do.
Mrs B says the provision of incorrect annual figures from 2017 had inflated the value of her 
fund and she now says it led her to believe it was doing better than it was and might have 
influenced her decision to continue with the same investment. She says the correct 
information sent annually by the provider didnt highlight the error to her as the fund value 
fluctuates daily.
Mrs B notes the fund had been invested in the same way prior to her engaging MW. She 
continues to think that overall good performance ought not to detract from the concerns 
about one years poor performance. She continues to stress her belief that the performance 
was worse than general market conditions and thinks MW ought to have acted differently 
during this year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision.
I previously explained that I mean no discourtesy by not mentioning everything that has been 
provided and said, and that parties can be assured I have considered everything provided 
with care.
I have seen that Mrs B is concerned about some of the pension information being included in 
my decision, albeit she understands that it is a matter for me to conclude what information I 
find relevant and choose to include in my decision. I have included matters that I consider 
relevant, and which assist in understanding this complaint and reflect the issues raised by 
the parties and the reasons why I have reached my decision.
Mrs Bs primary concerns related to the value of her pension fund by late 2022, in other 
words, its performance over the preceding period of around a year. It was when looking 
more closely at her plan she came across other matters complained about.
These further concerns can be divided into concerns where MW accept they provided 
incorrect information (e.g. fund values sent out annually from 2017) and concerns where MW dont accept they failed, or not in any meaningful way (the service provided outside of the 
annual report with the incorrect fund values).
Performance of Mrs Bs pension fund
I understand that Mrs B was concerned when she saw her fund value had decreased by late 
2022. But this doesnt mean MW did something wrong, nor that they are responsible for what 
are agreed to be performance related losses to the fund, (when compared to an earlier value 
from around a year before).
The last few years have been particularly volatile when it comes to the performance of the 
financial markets, and this reflects international and national activity. Mrs B accepts this is 
part of the risk with investments which aim to perform over the longer term. It would be 
unrealistic to expect guaranteed annual growth every year. Indeed investment strategies 
over the longer term usually include the acceptance of the likelihood as well as the risk of 
periods of volatility or limited growth, and they target overall growth over a longer term. Up 
until recently Mrs Bs fund has seen continued growth on the original sum invested.
I note that Mrs Bs investment risk profile for her portfolios objectives is recorded 
consistently in her review documents as being medium to high risk. The review document for 
2020 for example explains that investors with this profile usually have some investment 
experience and are generally willing to take on investment risk and understand the nature of 
the long-term risk/ return trade-off While they can suffer from regret when their decisions 
turn out badly, they can accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-
term investment.
It wouldnt be unusual for funds (or investors) with such a risk profile to see greater 
fluctuation in values compared to those with more conservative approaches.
This service does not in general terms usually consider complaints about the specific 
performance of an investment. Such performance is generally outside of our ambit. I havent 
seen anything that makes me think the decrease in the value over the 12-month period was 
anything but performance related. Nor is there anything to suggest Mrs Bs fund wasnt 
invested in-line with her investment profile. I dont consider the performance of Mrs Bs fund 
in the period she is concerned about to be particularly surprising, and it is consistent with the 
fluctuating values, including losses, that have been seen during the same time. I appreciate 
Mrs B believes her funds losses are unusual and higher than is reflected in the market 
performance. I dont agree theres anything to suggest that the loss in value is anything but 
performance based, or unusual, given what has been seen in respect of performance during 
this period. 
I dont think Mrs B is complaining really about the performance in any event, but about what 
MW did (or failed to do in her view). I dont consider the decrease in the value something 
MW ought to be considered responsible for.
I have not been persuaded that it is reasonable to conclude MW failed to monitor Mrs Bs 
fund in the way they were required to do. MWs service included annual reviews, and its not 
disputed this part of their service was offered and provided. It would not be fair or reasonable 
to require them to address and loss or repay the annual fee on this basis. 
I am not satisfied it is reasonable to say MW ought to have done something differently and in 
particular they ought to have been expected to have contacted Mrs B earlier based on the 
performance of her fund over this shorter term in the circumstances here.
 MW apologised when they first replied to Mrs Bs complaint for a failure to keep in better or 
more regular contact during recent times of economic volatility. However this does not mean 
MW were required to do more and I cant see that MW failed to respond to any contact from 
Mrs B.
MW say that whilst they may monitor the markets and funds regularly, a fall in the market 
may not mean a strategy needs to be changed. They dont accept such changes in the 
market require them to do anything further. I dont think this is an unusual or unreasonable 
approach, as applied here. It is important to remember the service being provided to Mrs B 
was not a more personal or active fund management service.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs B contacted MW about any market concerns during 
the period complained about, it appears to me contact in May 2022 was motivated by 
considering her options on taking benefits. Mrs B told us it was the provision of a value in 
late 2022, considered in early 2023 that prompted her concern and complaint. I have no 
doubt it will have been upsetting and worrying for Mrs B to have seen a fall in value.
It is right to note that I have seen the May 2022 contact had identified a significant fall in 
value. However based on what has been provided, I am not persuaded that MW ought to 
have been expected to act differently here. Nor, in any event, do I accept that it can 
reasonably be concluded (without the benefit of hindsight or speculation) that changes would 
have been made, and that such changes would have limited, or reduced performance losses 
experienced by the fund during this time.
I dont conclude that MW ought to be required to make any payment for any performance 
loss experienced or repay an annual service fee for this period (or indeed any earlier period).
Ive seen that Mrs B continues to stress that her adviser had initially said he was shocked 
when seeing the fall in the value of her fund when meeting in 2023, and that MW do not 
appear to accept this comment. In light of my findings on the change in value I dont consider 
I need to reach a finding on whether this comment was made or not to decide Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
For completeness, in May 2022 Mrs B and her adviser were in contact about the plan value 
and investments. This was in respect of obtaining values and taking benefits and Mrs B 
appeared to be hoping not to need to access this fund if she took benefits at the time. 
The adviser emailed Mrs B in May 2022 replying to her email of the same day. He let her 
know he had just received an updated value on her plan and what it was. He identified her 
fund had lost 15% since November 2021 and that he was surprised by this. From what he 
says at the time, it is clear he had expected a lower loss in value, and he refers to having 
seen 6% falls in value elsewhere for the same period. The adviser went on to suggest 
looking at moving her plan to a different portfolio. It isnt known what further contact followed 
until the annual review at the end of the year.
This service has not been provided with any complaint about this contact from Mrs B, nor 
anything further from either party about this contact and related discussions in and around 
May 2022, save MW says that the investments were not changed. Mrs B seems to suggest 
there was no contact from MW in 2022 prior to the annual review communications at the end 
of the year and that she didnt know of the fall in value until her review in early 2023. This 
being the case, I concluded I dont need to request further information about what happened 
around May 2022, as I dont consider it necessary to decide the complaint brought to this 
service.
Incorrect fund value information provided from 2017MW provided incorrect information when they provided annual fund values from 2017. I 
uphold the part of Mrs Bs complaint relating to this part of MWs service. It remains unclear 
to me when this error was first identified. MWs final response letter of March 2023 doesnt 
address this. 
I accept from MW the error arose due to the way in which information was processed when 
producing the annual value. I am told the need for manual work impacted how charges were 
shown, or not shown. It does not appear the incorrect information suggested significantly 
different valuations from the actual values each year. Nor were any errors so substantive 
such as to make me think there might be a meaningful loss of expectation experienced by 
Mrs B. Nor do I accept her recent suggestion that the values sent by MW might have caused 
her to act (or fail to act) in such a way that can be linked to her not changing her investment 
position in 2021 or 2022, which she might otherwise have done. 
Mrs B received annual valuations from her provider which were accurate. In the 
circumstances I am surprised it took so long for this error to be identified, (it may reflect that 
there were not significant differences). Mrs B now suggests that she could not rely on the 
providers valuations as values fluctuated daily. This might explain why she did not identify a 
difference between MW and her providers annual valuations (and tends to reflect that the 
MW valuations were not significantly different). It does not support Mrs Bs suggestion that 
she relied on MWs valuation sent out once a year when it came to choosing whether to act.
In any event, I am satisfied this repeated error did not cause Mrs B any financial loss. I have 
no doubt its discovery caused her real concern. Had Mrs B continued to be a client of MW I 
would have hoped to understand more about what they had done to ensure such errors 
would not recur.
I have seen that Mrs B was also unhappy about other information sent out with her annual 
review documentation. I have not found any such information to indicate any substantive 
error or failure on the part of MW, nor that such information might reasonably be understood 
to have contributed to Mrs B experiencing any loss.
I have seen what is said about the impact of the discovery of there having been inaccurate 
information provided annually for some years and the apparent dispute between the parties 
about the role of this fund in Mrs Bs financial plans. I have balanced everything said and 
provided and I consider the offer made by MW fairly reflects the impact and the long-
standing nature of the advisory relationship.
Further areas of complaint raised
Mrs B says that if she been contacted more frequently in 2021 and 2022, she would have 
understood the market conditions sooner. Mrs B suggests that had she done so, she would 
have been able to seek advice and consider whether she ought to act. Thus she suggests 
she would have avoided the level of loss experienced by her fund.
Mrs B told us that if she had understood MW would have only been looking at her 
arrangement once a year, she would have been checking it more frequently as she says she 
did before engaging MW. Mrs B notes that over the years she generally only had contact 
around her annual review or when instigated by her. Mrs B says other advisers have told her 
its reasonable to expect more frequent monitoring.
More recently Mrs B told us she thinks MWs terms of business are poorly written and that 
when they used the word regular in 2013 this was ambiguous. She says that however 
unintentionally, this might partly explain why she thought there would be monitoring at times 
between annual reviews. Overall she isnt happy with the service and information provided 
and suggests what was done, was not done reasonably well.Having seen the documents provided, it is clear there have been times over the years where 
MW and Mrs B have been in contact in respect of her arrangements more than once in a 
year. For example in 2017 and 2018 there appear to have been several reviews. I accept 
from Mrs B there have been times when she instigated contact. Ive seen Mrs B says she 
actively managed the fund herself prior to 2011 and that over the years she has raised 
queries and asked about alternative options. Whilst I dont understand how Mrs B actively 
managed fund, and she says it was invested in the same way prior to 2011, I dont consider 
this is an area in which I need to make any finding when deciding this complaint.
Ive explained above why I dont think the performance of Mrs Bs pension during the 
relevant period ought on its own to have required MW to have contacted Mrs B. Nor do I 
think MW ought reasonably to have been required to or expected to contact Mrs B more 
frequently than they did in the year or so preceding her annual review in January 2023. 
However it is sufficiently clear that they did, given the emails from May 2022 that have been 
provided.
I havent seen anything that makes me think that even with earlier contact in the 2021- 2022 
period, it can reasonably be said Mrs B would have done something differently and her 
pension would not have decreased in value or to such an extent. 
From what I have seen MW met what they were obliged to offer when it came to an annual 
review and the associated service under the terms of their service agreement. I dont 
consider it unusual for an adviser with a similar ongoing servicing agreement, where annual 
reviews are paid for and part of the service, to contact their client once a year in respect of 
the review, (it isnt unusual for there to be contact shortly prior to the review to ask about any 
change in circumstances). Some firms may choose to provide other more generic (or 
tailored) information throughout the year. Some firms may be internally monitoring specific 
funds throughout the year. This might depend on preferences set by the client. Other clients 
and advisers might and can have a different service relationship set up.
Mrs B has pointed to the contents of the 2013 service agreement provided to this service; 
however I dont think what was provided failed to meet what was required. Mrs B thinks the 
use of the word regular in the 2013 agreement might be ambiguous, might have misled her 
or be understood to require MW to have contacted her outside of the annual review service, 
but I dont agree. It does not preclude MW from doing so, but I do not consider it created a 
binding obligation for there to be contact or a review of her investments more frequently than 
annually. I dont think the service being provided (including in 2021 to 2022) required this. I 
note MWs 2021 terms do not use the word regular and refer simply to an annual review 
service. I have not been provided with all terms from 2014- 2020, but I dont consider they 
are required here.
In any event, this was not a new advisory relationship or service offering, MW had been 
advising Mrs B for over ten years on her pension investment and as such she would have 
been aware of the service provided and how regularly there was usually contact. It has not 
been complained or suggested that the service provided significantly changed in 2021 and 
2022.
In addition to concluding MW ought not to have been required to contact Mrs B when the 
value of her investment fell during this period, I consider it too remote and speculative to 
conclude that if MW had contacted Mrs B at an earlier point in 2021 or 2022, she would have 
invested differently and avoided or limited the loss experienced by her fund.Putting things right
What MW must do
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part. In reaching this thinking I have taken account of 
everything, and in particular that MW provided incorrect annual valuations in their annual 
review documents from 2017.
I accept the errors in the values were not significant and Mrs B would have been receiving 
the correct values from her provider annually (and in the circumstances it seems surprising 
therefore the error wasnt noticed earlier). However she was entitled to receive the right 
information. To discover she was sent inaccurate information will have understandably 
caused her real concern.
MW previously offered £250 to Mrs B, and this is the sum they must pay to her. This might 
be a somewhat higher sum than I might usually consider for distress and inconvenience 
based on limited errors in valuations where accurate information was also being provided, 
and where I dont consider any loss or detriment was linked to the error. However I dont 
think it would be appropriate or reasonable here to decrease the original sum offered by 
MW.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Marshall Wooldridge Financial 
Services Ltd in part. They are required to pay her £250. I would expect this payment to be 
made to her within 28 days of their being informed of her acceptance of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman