DRN-4049062
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the cash sum U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered to settle his 
claim for storm damage under his home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr T reported water ingress and roof damage caused by a storm to his 
insurer, UKI. UKI instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage and in the meantime 
Mr T arranged for temporary repairs to be carried out by a roofing contractor. 
Mr T was unhappy with the LA who attended to inspect the damage and the cash settlement 
offer to repair the storm related damage and internal redecorating repairs. Mr T said a 
roofing contractor told him it wouldnt insure any remedial repairs without fully replacing the 
roof. 
In February 2023 UKI agreed to increase the cash settlement to take into account 
scaffolding to carry out the repairs. But it said the storm related damage was relatively minor 
- caused by six dislodged tiles. Mr T remained unhappy and so it agreed to instruct a 
Surveyor to attend for a second visit. 
However, Mr T arranged for the roofing contractor to carry out full roof replacement works 
before the second Surveyor visit - so UKI said it wouldnt change the cash settlement offer it 
made. 
Mr T asked us to look at his complaint. He said hed taken out a loan to pay for the roof to be 
replaced. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr T didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide indemnity for specific perils such as storm, fire or flood. Like most standard 
insurance policies, UKI says the following on how it settles claims for building damage:
(UKI) will either:
> repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
> pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
> make a cash payment.
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or 
make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our 
suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged 
by your suppliers.
The LA who attended in January 2023 reported that six tiles had become dislodged due to a 
storm and that Mr Ts claim was fair and valid. The LA recommended a cash settlement 
offer. When the LA attended, Mr T and a roofing contractor were also at the property. 
Mr T provided UKI with two estimates and a report from the roofing contractor. They reported 
that by carrying out repairs to the affected area they couldnt guarantee the roof would be 
water tight and safe for the future. They said the interim repairs carried out to fix the 
dislodged tiles back onto the roof would not prevent further problems. 
We ask three questions when we look at storm damage claim complaints to help decide 
whether an insurer has acted reasonably - and in line with the policy. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
All parties accept that storm conditions occurred, so the answer to the first question is yes.
Tiles were dislodged from the roof, so its reasonable to conclude that the damage is 
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. So the answer to the second question is 
yes. 
The LA reported that the roof was overall in poor condition - but that the storm damage was 
relatively minor and confined to the dislodged tiles and the water ingress that flowed from 
there into Mr Ts home. The increased cash settlement of £1,355.47 (after deducting the 
excess) included the redecorating works for the internal damage. 
Notes from UKI show that the LA appointed by it attempted to arrange a second visit to 
assess if the first LA had done anything wrong. Two dates were offered, but Mr T declined. A 
third date was agreed - but when the LA called Mr T on the way to the property, he said he 
was at work and that the roof had been stripped back and works were almost complete. So 
there was no point in the LA attending to inspect the damage. 
UKI said its cash settlement would remain the same in light of the fact that it was no longer 
possible for a second LA to inspect the damage. 
I understand that Mr T says that UKIs decision has had a significant impact on him and his 
partner. He says the loan he has taken out to pay for the roof to be replaced has caused 
financial hardship. 
But - looking at everything provided - there is a difference of opinion as to whether it was 
necessary for the roof to be completely replaced in order to repair the incident related 
damage. And UKI is only responsible for the incident related damage. So I think it acted 
reasonably in relying on the opinion of the first LA and has settled Mr Ts claim in line with 
the policy. 
I understand Mr T will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking 
UKI to meet the costs Mr T paid to have the roof completely replaced. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman