DRN-1731653
The complaint
Ms S, who is represented by her husband Mr M, complains that BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms S acquired a nearly new car at a cost of £24,379 funded by an advance 
payment and hire purchase finance. The car was three months old and had done 1,856 
miles. 
After a few months the car's touch screen failed and was repaired under warranty. In June 
2019 the car lost power and BMW emergency support attended. The diagnostics recorded 
an engine misfire in cylinders one and three. The car was road tested shortly after without 
the fault reoccurring.
On 5 September 2019, water leaked into the footwell. I gather the air conditioning drain hose 
had been either deformed or bent. In October the car suffered a further loss of power. It was 
it was noted that cylinders two and three had misfired. Multiple fault codes were stored and 
the recovery agent believed the issue was due to a wiring loom fault. The car was inspected 
by the dealer it didnt find any problems or any stored fault codes.
BMWFS concluded there was no evidence of the fault that Ms S has complained about ad n 
rejected her complaint. She has said that it is intermittent and she no longer trusts the car 
and refuses to drive it. Her husband has used it instead resulting a in a larger mileage than 
expected.
The complaint has been considered by one of our investigators who recommend it be 
upheld. She said it was clear that there had been faults with the car (touch screen and foot 
well flooding) and that there had been attempts to make repairs. She also thought there was 
another fault which was causing the engine cylinders to misfire intermittently. She noted that 
fault codes and the misfiring had been identified by the manufacturers agent in its diagnostic 
tests. 
She concluded that Ms S should be allowed to reject the car. BMWFS didnt agree and said 
it would provide a recent job card which showed there was no fault. Despite some four 
months elapsing it has not supplied this additional evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
This was an almost new car which should operate properly without the need to be repaired 
on several occasions. It has suffered a number of faults which have had to be repaired by 
the dealer, but the most major one has eluded it. A misfiring engine is a significant fault and 
certainly should not happen on such a new car. I appreciate the dealer hasnt been able to 
identify the cause or replicate it, but it is clear it exists.
The technician from BMW Group Emergency Service identified multiple faults codes and 
provided detailed comments about the fault. We are not reliant on the word of Ms M or her 
husband. We have independent corroboration of the problem. I am satisfied there is a fault 
and the fact the dealer cant find it doesnt mean that it doesnt exist. Therefore, I can only 
conclude that the car was faulty at the point of sale and Ms S should be allowed to reject it.
Mr M has said that he has been driving the car as his wife no longer trusts it and the agreed 
mileage may have been exceeded due to that. I dont think that would allow me to require 
BMWFS to forgo any excess mileage charge that may arise as Mr M will have had the 
benefit of a reduced mileage on the other car. 
Putting things right
As I have concluded the car was faulty at the point of sale I belive it is only reasonable that 
Ms S be allowed to reject it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Ms S
refund the advance payment and apply 8% simple interest calculated from the date 
of payment to the date or settlement
remove information about the agreement from Ms S's credit file
pay Ms S £200 compensation for the trouble and upset that has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman