DRN-2681194
The complaint
Ms P complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) for its handling of her 
payments to her credit card account and subsequent customer service issues she has 
experienced over the course of several months. She wants Nationwide to rework her credit 
card so that her minimum payment accurately reflects all of her payments. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should firstly set out that I have much sympathy with Ms P and the experience she has had.
Nationwide acknowledges that there have been many repeated service failings over the 
course of the period April 2019 up until August 2019. These issues included Ms Ps credit 
card payment being sent to the wrong account, compensation payments that were offered to 
Ms P not being made to her, calls not being returned, or being returned at a time when Ms P 
had made clear that she could not take them, and a delay in correcting Ms Ps credit card 
minimum payment required to properly reflect the payments she has made. 
This must have been hugely frustrating for Ms P and, given that she had previously 
experienced financial difficulties and had closed her credit card account, issues such as 
finding missed calls from the bank chasing inaccurate debts must have been very worrying.  
Nationwide missed a number of opportunities to prevent Ms Ps experience from being made 
ever worse by its failure to act quickly in recalculating her credit card payment. This meant 
that Nationwides response to Ms Ps complaints was rather piecemeal, consisting of a 
number of compensatory payments being credited to her current account over time, and 
ultimately a final payment of £250. 
I think that the service provided to Ms P between April and August 2019 was very poor, and I 
understand why she has brought her complaint to us. 
It may therefore seem odd to Ms P that I agree with the investigators conclusion to not 
uphold the complaint. This is not because I dispute any part of what has happened, nor that I 
think that Ms P received an adequate service, but because Nationwide has acknowledged its 
failings and has made an overall offer of compensation which I consider is appropriate, and 
which is in line with other awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
Nationwides offer of compensation amounts to £475, and I consider this is overall 
reasonable. 
I understand why Ms P feels it is not a sufficient offer as the effects of the poor service have 
been drawn out. Receiving another inaccurate credit card statement, or call chasing an 
underpayment would feel no less frustrating because Nationwide had recently apologised 
for a previous issue and made a compensatory payment. 
This service is, however, always looking at what has happened in the past and we take a 
holistic view of the poor service, over the total time period. In my view the compensation paid 
by Nationwide is reflective of the overall poor service and the impact upon Ms P that she has 
described. 
Ms P has commented that she finds it extremely frustrating that Nationwide has not been 
able to accurately recalculate her statements as the recalculated August minimum payment 
was still higher than previous minimum payments, despite the account being closed. 
I understand this frustration and agree that Ms P was likely charged too much in the August 
2019 minimum payment by a small amount. I do, however, think that this has been 
adequately compensated by Nationwides overall offer. 
Beyond this, we do not make awards to punish businesses but to compensate individuals, in 
line with the effects suffered. Whilst I understand that Ms P does not agree, I am satisfied 
that the offer is reasonable bearing in mind awards we would make in similar circumstances 
if the business had not made an offer itself.   
For these reasons, I acknowledge that Ms P has received a poor service but think that 
Nationwide Building Society has made a reasonable offer of compensation. 
Consequently, I do not ask Nationwide Building Society to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint and do not ask Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman