DRN-3070541
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M has complained that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe 
SE unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
Mrs D, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
 
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with Liberty Mutual. It claimed on its policy 
after closing due to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
  
Liberty Mutual said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a 
notifiable disease at the premises, M had closed as a result of the Government Act in 
response to the national pandemic. As Liberty Mutual thought M had closed in response to 
the national lockdown, rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19, Liberty 
Mutual turned down its claim. 
  
M was unhappy with Liberty Mutuals response and brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think M had closed due to someone at its premises having Covid-19.
M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it had been forced to close by 
the Government in response to the pandemic, so thought its claim should be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Ms business. But Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Liberty Mutual have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy when declining Ms claim.   
  
The most relevant part of Ms policy covers:  
  
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the   
Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease. However, for this 
extension to provide cover, Ms compulsory closure would need to have arisen from the 
discovery of a case of Covid-19 at its premises. As I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that its most likely that anyone at its premises had Covid-19, unfortunately its claim 
isnt covered.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for, but having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Liberty Mutual to pay Ms claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman