DRN-2733204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have treated 
them unfairly in relation to a home insurance claim. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events. 
Mr and Mrs R made a claim under their home insurance policy following a leak. They made 
a complaint raising a number of concerns about delays, refusal to pay additional costs, 
general handling of the claim as well Admiral unfairly refusing to replace appliances that they 
said had been damaged by the damp.
Admiral considered the complaint and agreed it made mistakes in communicating with Mr 
and Mrs R, particularly about what was covered under the claim. It agreed to pay them £75 
in compensation as a result. But it didnt uphold any other aspects of the complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint, provided a timeline of events (which I wont 
repeat here), explaining she felt Admiral had caused delays across the life of the claim. 
Following her involvement Admiral agreed to pay previously disputed water and electricity 
costs, as well as £420 as a disturbance allowance, and it agreed that it had made a mistake 
previously by not installing a temporary floor following works to locate the leak.
The investigator upheld the complaint  saying Admiral should also increase its 
compensation payment to £300. But she said there wasnt enough evidence to demonstrate 
that the appliances Mr and Mrs R had replaced were damaged by the claim incident and 
contaminated by mould.
Mr and Mrs R responded to say they disagreed with the investigators findings on the 
appliances. They said the items had been against the damp walls and that Admiral had 
previously agreed to carry out a hygienic clean to their satisfaction which hadnt been met.
Admiral said the appliances were working months after the incident and it had settled £1,000 
for the removal of the items, PAT testing them, service and then refitting them. And it said 
the appliances hadnt been in direct contact with the water so it didnt agree they needed 
replacing.
Our investigator agreed, saying there wasnt enough evidence to persuade her that the 
appliances were damaged by the leak. Mr and Mrs R still disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint, in line with the reasons given by our 
investigator previously. Ill explain why.
Within this decision I have focused on the point that remains in dispute  which is whether or 
not Admiral has acted fairly in regards to Mr and Mrs Rs appliances. Under the contents part 
of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, Admiral is able to settle a claim in a number of different ways which 
includes repair, restore, cash settling, and replacing the item amongst others. 
In this case Admiral has provided Mr and Mrs R with £1,000 to PAT test and service the 
appliances. Im satisfied this is in line with the policy terms. So in order for me to direct 
Admiral to do something further, I need to be satisfied that the costs it has paid were not 
enough to repair or restore these items.
Mr and Mrs R have said that the items were affected by mould spores and therefore needed 
to be replaced. But theyve provided no expert evidence to support this. Having considered 
all of the relevant evidence provided by both parties including various reports, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest these items needed replacing or would be unsafe.
And it seems to me that Mr and Mrs R should have evidence to show if the PAT testing 
failed and if they were unable to have these items professionally cleaned. But Ive not been 
given anything to support this is the case. Mr and Mrs R have also placed emphasis on a call 
with Admiral where cleaning was discussed. But nothing was guaranteed from this call, and 
nor does it change any of the points Ive outlined above. So, it hasnt changed my mind. 
For these reasons, Im not asking Admiral to do anything further and Im satisfied its met its 
obligations under the policy based on the information it has been given. In line with our 
investigators opinion, Im satisfied the increased compensation sum of £300 alongside 
payment for disturbance allowance is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr and Mrs R:
£300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
£420 in disturbance allowance payment.
It may deduct any sums already paid from these figures. Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs 
R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman