DRN-4300049
The complaint
Mr L complained because he felt National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him 
unsuitable advice to set up a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and to then invest in a 
commercial property.
What happened
In November 2006 Mr L met with one of NatWests advisors. Notes from the meeting said he 
wanted to discuss pension contributions for his retirement and to use the pension to buy a 
commercial property. Two Fact Find documents were completed which, amongst other 
things, recorded that:
Mr L felt there was a shortfall in his existing pension arrangements
his main aims were to ensure a good standard of living at age 55 and to buy a 
commercial property using his pension funds
his companys future plans included the purchase of commercial premises in two to four 
years
his company would pay £10,000 into the pension initially and then £1,000 per month
he wanted to hold the pension funds as cash so as to not be subject to market volatility.
On 21 November 2006 the advisor wrote to Mr L outlining the recommendation. Her letter 
outlined various points, including:
Mr L didnt think it was in his best interests to re-start an existing personal pension he 
held as he couldnt invest in commercial property within that pension
hed discussed a plan with his accountant for his company to contribute to a pension, for 
the pension to buy a new business premises for roughly £150,000 using the 
accumulated funds in the pension, and for the premises to then be let to his company at 
a commercial rate
Mr Ls immediate objective was to accumulate funds in the pension.
The advisor recommended that Mr L set up a SIPP and for the contributions made by his 
company to be placed in interest paying accounts.
In February 2008 the advisor wrote to Mr L  in part, as an addendum to the 2006 
recommendation letter. She said:
shed discussed with Mr L the possibility of contributions being paid into his existing 
pension and using a cash fund to accumulate funds until the property purchase 
proceeded, and the fund could then be transferred to a SIPP to facilitate the property 
purchase
shed pointed out that this might be a less expensive option
Mr L had understood her rationale but he wanted to start the SIPP so hed be ready to 
proceed when a property was found
Mr L had received no service from his existing pension provider and he didnt want to 
consider contributing to the existing pension as an option.
In early 2008 Mr L started the process for the SIPP to buy a commercial property. The 
completed forms show:
the property was one Mr L personally owned
the purchase price was £24,000, with the money coming from funds held within the SIPP
the SIPP would lease the property to Mr Ls company, with the annual rent being £2,400
Mr Ls company would use the property to store tools and equipment.
On 1 October 2008 the advisor wrote to Mr L (having spoken to him the previous day) to 
outline her recommendation. The letter said sufficient funds were now in Mr Ls pension for 
the property purchase and that the purpose of the conversation was to discuss the excess 
funds in the pension over and above the purchase price of the property. The advisor 
recommended that Mr L:
leave £25,000 in the cash fund so that he could complete the purchase of the property
invest the remainder in various funds.
The SIPP bought the property from Mr L and leased it to Mr Ls company. Mr L later bought 
the property back from the SIPP.
In June 2021 Mr L complained to NatWest as he felt hed received negligent advice. He said 
the advisor told him that moving the property into the SIPP would make him more money as 
he could pay himself rent and build up funds in a tax-free environment. However, he felt he 
would have been better off if the amount paid in rent had been invested into a personal 
pension instead.
NatWest investigated the matter but felt the advice given was suitable for Mr Ls needs and 
circumstances at the time. Mr L remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld. 
The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below and they form part of this 
final decision.
I thought it was clear that in 2006 one of Mr Ls longer term aims was to use a pension to 
buy premises for his company to operate from. This was evidenced by the notes from the 
meeting and by the information included in the Fact Finds. The advisors 
recommendation letter also specifically referred to the commercial premises. But I didnt 
think buying premises was Mr Ls immediate aim. That was because he didnt have 
£150,000 in a pension to use for this purpose. His immediate aim in my view was to build 
up funds within a pension  by way of the contributions  until such time as there was 
enough to buy a commercial property.
I also thought it was clear that Mr L didnt want to take any risk with the contributions that 
were going to be paid into his pension. This was evidenced by the supplementary Fact 
Find  which recorded that Mr L wanted to hold the pension funds as cash in order to 
avoid market volatility [of other investments]. The recommendation letter also said that in 
respect of this particular transaction Mr Ls risk attitude was category one, which was 
described as him not being prepared to take any risk with his capital.
So, in my view, in 2006 the immediate aim to build up the pension fund and Mr Ls very 
low attitude to risk should have been the main considerations in determining what was suitable. In that regard, it seemed to me that fundamentally there were two potential 
options  for the contributions to be paid into Mr Ls existing pension, or for a new 
pension to be started and the contributions paid into that.
The first option seemed to have been deemed unsuitable because of Mr Ls reluctance 
for contributions to be paid into his existing pension. But the advisors overall obligation 
was to treat Mr L fairly and to act in his best interests  in essence, to give him suitable 
advice. It wasnt to give advice based on what Mr L thought was the best course of 
action or to simply recommend something that aligned with his objectives. That was 
because Mr Ls views and objectives might have been unrealistic and/or unsuitable for 
him.
Another reason the advisor recommended the SIPP rather than the existing pension was 
because the existing pension couldnt hold a commercial property as an investment. But 
there wasnt a commercial property that was going to be immediately held within the 
pension  Mr Ls immediate aim was simply to build up his pension funds. I wasnt 
therefore persuaded that in 2006 he needed a pension that could hold a commercial 
property.
Mr L didnt want to take any risk with the money being invested in his pension. I hadnt 
seen details of his existing pension; however, I thought it very unlikely that contributions 
into that pension couldnt have been held in cash or invested in a very low risk fund. So I 
wasnt persuaded that Mr L needed a pension (such as the SIPP) where contributions 
could be placed in a large variety of investment funds.
Finally, the advisor recognised, and said in her February 2008 letter, that the costs of 
Mr Ls existing pension were likely to be lower than those charged for the SIPP.
Given the above, I concluded that the advice to take out the SIPP was unsuitable. In the 
circumstances I thought suitable advice was for the contributions to be made to Mr Ls 
existing pension. Further advice could then be given if/when Mr L was in a position to 
use his pension funds to buy a property. My conclusion was based on:
oMr Ls immediate aim being to accumulate funds within a pension  so he didnt 
need a pension that could hold a commercial property as an investment
oMr L needing a pension that could hold his funds in cash or in a low risk fund 
(which his existing pension most likely could have done)  so he didnt need a 
pension offering varied investment opportunities
oMr Ls reluctance to contribute to the existing pension didnt make that option 
unsuitable
othe existing pension was most likely cheaper than the SIPP.
There was an argument that Mr L would have ignored advice to contribute to the existing 
pension and proceeded to set up the SIPP anyway. This was because he viewed the 
SIPP as his best course of action, because of the service hed received from the pension 
provider, and because hed be ready to proceed when a property was found. The 
counter argument was that Mr L would have followed the advisors recommendation and 
contributed to the existing pension. I thought the counter argument was the more 
persuasive. That was because Mr L was paying NatWest for expert advice; and I thought 
he  like most relatively inexperienced consumers  would more likely value and trust the 
advice given to him by an expert rather than his own view.So if the advisor had advised Mr L in 2006 that his best option was for the contributions 
to be paid into the existing pension I thought it was most likely that he would have 
followed that advice.
I then looked at what I thought most likely would have happened had Mr Ls pension 
contributions been paid into his existing pension from 2006.
The property the SIPP bought in 2008 wasnt the same property that was discussed in 
2006. That was because the 2006 documents referred to the pension buying a property 
for around £150,000 that Mr Ls company would operate from; but the property bought by 
the SIPP in 2008 cost £24,000 and was used to store tools and equipment.
Mr L told our investigator the smaller property was part of the discussions he had with 
the advisor, and that it was the advisors idea to put this property into the SIPP. I couldnt 
rule out the possibility of a discussion about this property taking place prior to 2008. But 
the first documented reference Id seen regarding the purchase of this property was in 
early 2008. It was only the larger property that was mentioned in the earlier documents. 
So based on the documentary evidence Id seen, I concluded it was most likely that the 
original SIPP advice was given based on the intention to buy the larger property.
Had Mr L not started the SIPP it was most likely that he would have approached the 
advisor in 2008 for further advice about investing his pension funds in the commercial 
property. And it was most likely that the advice would have mirrored the advice the 
advisor gave in 2006 ie to start a SIPP as the commercial property couldnt be held 
within the existing pension. I said that because there was no plausible reason why the 
advisors theoretical advice in 2008 would have been any different to the actual advice in 
2006.
In 2008 the advisor would have had to look at the suitability of the intended investment in 
order to consider the overall suitability of SIPP. That was because the Conduct of 
Business rules (COBS 9.2.2R) required the advisor to obtain the information necessary 
about Mr L to have a reasonable basis for believing her recommendation met his 
investment objectives, that Mr L was able to bear any related investment risks and that 
he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand those risks. That 
effectively required an understanding of Mr Ls objectives and the risks related to them 
and meant the advisor couldnt ignore Mr Ls intention of investing in an unregulated, 
esoteric or high risk investment. And if the advisor didnt consider the investment to be 
suitable in Mr Ls circumstances, she should have said so rather than presuming that the 
SIPP was necessary in order for the investment to happen.
That meant that in theoretically advising Mr L in 2008 to take out a SIPP in order to hold 
the commercial property as an investment, the advisor would have needed to take 
account of the investment itself and whether it was suitable for Mr Ls circumstances. 
That would have meant carrying out things like a cost analysis to see if the SIPP and 
investment would benefit Mr L and determining whether the investment met with Mr Ls 
objectives and attitude to risk.
The nub of Mr Ls argument was one of cost versus benefit ie the cost of holding the 
investment compared to the potential benefit he would receive made the investment 
unsuitable. Costs and risks to were two important issues when considering suitability.
Investing in commercial property is inherently risky  because of things like a tenant 
defaulting on the rent, the property being unoccupied and the property not easily being 
convertible to cash if money is needed. So the potential for growth needs to outweigh this risk for a recommendation to be suitable. Further, Mr Ls attitude to risk appeared to 
be fairly low given his reluctance to invest the pension contributions in anything other 
than cash.
Mr Ls complaint letter to NatWest dated 7 June 2021 referred to a period of 13 years 
that the garage was held within the SIPP and outlined various costs:
o£2,043.75 for what he described as the sub fund providers set-up costs
o£900 a year for the sub fund providers annual fees
o£656.29 (in total over 13 years) for the cost of insuring the property
ounspecified costs for the setting up of the SIPP and NatWests initial and ongoing 
advisor charges.
Those costs compared to the annual rent being received of £2,400.
By my calculations, the total rent received over the 13 years would have been £31,200. 
The known costs outlined above total just over £14,400. That left a profit of around 
£16,800. The SIPP set up costs and the advisors charges would further reduce this 
figure, but I wasnt persuaded they would be much more than around £5,000. So on the 
face of it there appeared to have been some value in the transaction as overall the 
income exceeded the charges.
However, as mentioned above, in making the theoretical recommendation in 2008 the 
advisor would have needed to carry out a cost analysis to see if the SIPP and investment 
would benefit Mr L. That should have included consideration of other options available to 
him. And if the idea was to grow Mr Ls pension fund via his company paying to lease the 
property, as Mr L owned the property personally it seemed to me that an option was for 
Mr L to lease the property to his company directly. Mr L could then have made personal 
contributions to his existing pension using the rental payments he received. In my view, 
that would have saved all the pension fees and would most likely have been a far 
cheaper option.
I therefore thought that any theoretical cost analysis done in 2008 would most likely have 
resulted in the property investment and SIPP being deemed unsuitable given the risks 
involved. And if Mr L had received such advice I again thought it was most likely that he 
would have followed it and not proceeded with the transaction.
What Id said related to a theoretical position in 2008 rather than what actually 
happened. But I thought it was necessary to consider that in order to determine the 
position Mr L would most likely be in now but for the unsuitable advice he received in 
2006 to start the SIPP. So, to summarise, I concluded that:
othe advice Mr L received in 2006 to start the SIPP was unsuitable, and
ohad he been given suitable advice contributions would most likely have been paid 
into his existing pension and he wouldnt have invested in the commercial 
property.
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest accepted my provisional decision in terms of the outcome and redress 
methodology. However, it questioned whether the comparison of funds for the redress 
should be amended for the time period approximately a year after the original SIPP was 
recommended, when Mr L had a more aggressive attitude towards investment risk.Mr L said he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided anything further in respect of my conclusions that the advice Mr L 
received in 2006 to start the SIPP was unsuitable, and that had he been given suitable 
advice contributions would most likely have been paid into his existing pension and he 
wouldnt have invested in the commercial property. My conclusions on these issues 
therefore remain as outlined above, for the same reasons.
The only issue for me to consider is NatWests point about the comparison for the redress 
calculations Id proposed.
The first redress comparison I outlined in my provisional decision is the preferred/default 
method of redress. Its essentially a like-for-like comparison between the current value of 
Mr Ls SIPP and what the current value of his existing pension would have been (ie the 
notional value) had the contributions been paid into that pension and everything else being 
equal. As its known what happened in respect of the SIPP (eg contributions, withdrawals, 
investments) I remain of the view that the like-for-like comparison is the appropriate 
calculation.
The second comparison I outlined will only arise if the preferred/default method of redress 
cant be calculated because NatWest cant get the notional value of Mr Ls existing pension 
eg because the provider of that pension is unable or unwilling to calculate it. If this happens 
NatWest will need to calculate a fair value for Mr Ls existing pension using the benchmark I 
proposed (and then compare that to the current value of the SIPP). I chose this benchmark 
as I felt Mr L wanted to grow his pension without out any, or with very little, risk to his 
investment.
The documentation NatWest referred to from around 2007/2008 does suggest that Mr L had 
a more adventurous attitude to risk with respect to some of his pension funds. For example, 
a review letter in October 2007 refers to a discussion about increasing the contributions and 
Mr L deciding to invest these contributions in equities in order to get higher potential growth. 
Another letter in October 2008 refers to the surplus funds over and above the purchase price 
of the commercial property and investing it in equities. However, my understanding from the 
content of NatWests final response to the complaint is that neither actually happened. 
Reference is made in that letter to Mr L requesting in September 2008 that his contribution 
be reduced from £1,000 to £200 rather than increased; and to a letter that Mr L needed to 
sign to authorise the proposed investment changes never being returned.
With the above in mind, because of what actually happened I remain of the view that its fair 
for the comparison calculation to be based on Mr L wanting capital growth with no or a very 
small risk to his capital.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if hed been given suitable advice. Its not possible to know precisely what he 
would have done. However, as above, I think he would most likely have contributed to his 
existing pension and he wouldnt have invested in the commercial property. Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given that.To compensate Mr L fairly, NatWest must:
compare the performance of Mr L's SIPP with the notional value of his existing pension if 
contributions had been made into that pension. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable
add any interest set out below to the compensation payable
if there is a loss, NatWest should pay into Mr L's SIPP to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance
if NatWest is unable to pay the compensation into Mr L's SIPP, it should pay the amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr L wont be able 
to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid
the notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr L is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Mr L would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%
provide the details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Income tax might be payable on any interest paid. If NatWest deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. NatWest should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr L asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
SIPP Still exists 
and liquidNotional 
value of 
existing 
pensionStart date of 
SIPPDate of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from the date of my 
final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of NatWest 
receiving Mr Ls 
acceptance)
The actual value is the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the end date. The notional 
value is the value of Mr Ls existing pension had contributions been paid into that until the 
end date. NatWest should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum that Mr L paid into the investment should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if NatWest totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, NatWest will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr Ls existing pension, using this benchmark: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Mr L wanted capital growth with no or a 
very small risk to his capital. I consider that Mr Ls risk profile was very low, in the sense that 
he didnt want to take any risk with his contributions. So if the previous provider is unable to 
calculate a notional value, then I consider using the average rate from fixed rate bonds 
reasonable because its a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable 
return with very little risk to their capital. It doesnt mean that Mr L would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with 
little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay 
compensation as outlined in the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman