DRN-2817420
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a stocks and shares ISA by Barclays Bank PLC 
(Barclays).
What happened
In 2001, Mr B visited a Barclays branch and applied for a Legal & General stocks and shares 
ISA. He agreed to make a monthly contribution of £100. Mr B says he intended to open a 
cash ISA but was advised by branch staff to take out a stocks and shares ISA. 
Between January and September 2002, Mr B deposited £100 a month totalling £900. He 
says he stopped making deposits when he realised the account didnt work in the way a 
cash ISA account did, in that the stocks and shares ISA carried an element of risk to his 
capital. 
In June 2020 Mr B complained Barclays advice to him in 2001 wasnt suitable. He said the 
product hadnt been explained and was too risky. Barclays didnt agree. It said no advice 
was provided and gave Mr B information only, so the decision to open the ISA lay with him. 
Mr B had also decided to keep the account open and at the time of Barclays final response 
letter, it was worth almost £2,500. But Barclays did pay Mr B £100 for the delay in 
responding to his complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. The 
investigator referred to the application which said no investment advice had been given. He 
also noted the product documentation provided to Mr B at the time and thought this made 
clear what type of account he was taking out. So, from everything hed seen, he didnt find 
that Mr B had been mis-advised. 
Mr B disagreed. He said Barclays steered him to take out a stocks and shares ISA and it 
failed to tell him his investment could be at risk. As no agreement was reached, the case 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The questions I need to consider in this case are:
whether Barclays advised Mr B take out his ISA in 2001. If it did, whether Barclays 
took adequate steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable for Mr Bs needs
whether Barclays gave Mr B information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he 
could make an informed choice about the account he was opening. If Barclays did 
something wrong when offering the account, I will then consider whether Mr B has 
suffered a loss as a result. 
did Barclays advise or recommend Mr B to take out the stocks and shares ISA?
Mr B says he approached branch staff to open a cash ISA, but he was steered into taking 
out a stocks and shares ISA. According to Barclays, the sales process didnt include 
providing advice or recommendation of a product. Its role in this was to provide customers 
with application forms including the key feature documents via its branches. It says branch 
staff would often help customers complete the forms, which were then either sent to the 
provider for processing directly by the customer or through the branch.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs testimony and while I dont doubt his recollections of the 
events, I must also recognise that Mr Bs branch visit was some 20 years ago. Given the 
time thats passed, along with the fact that there is a dispute about what happened, Ive 
considered what both parties have said as well as the documentary evidence available to 
decide what I think most likely occurred.
I dont doubt it was Barclays that first brought the stocks and shares ISA to Mr Bs attention. 
But the documentary evidence, specifically Section 6 of that form, sets out the investment 
was being taken out without investment advice - something Mr B signed to confirm 
acceptance of. I think that form makes clear that it was down to Mr B to make a choice about 
the account he wanted to open, and that Barclays hadnt made a recommendation as to 
what was suitable for him. Ive not seen enough to be satisfied Barclays recommended Mr B 
opt for this particular ISA over the cash one he had in mind. So, Im not persuaded its 
actions could be construed as overstepping the bounds of its usual sales process.
did Barclays provide Mr B with clear, fair and not misleading information?
Where Barclays hasnt provided advice, it is under no obligation to assess whether the 
product is suitable  instead, has to ensure it providing clear, fair and not misleading 
information in order to allow the customer to make an informed decision about whether or 
not the account or product is right for them.
Barclays has provided details of the documentation that it says was given to Mr B when he 
took out his ISA. This includes the application form he completed and signed, key features 
documents and the terms and conditions.  
On page 2 of the key features document, the title in large bold print says Risk factors. This 
goes on to say the following:
Both capital and income values may go down as well as up and are not guaranteed.
Capital may be used to pay charges where there is insufficient income.
If you exercise your right to cancel the ISA, you may not get a full refund of the 
amount paid if the value of the investment falls before the notice of cancellation is 
received by Legal & General. This is because an amount equal to that fall in value 
will be deducted from any refund you would otherwise receive.
Reading through the literature, Im satisfied the documents were clear enough to allow Mr B 
to understand he was investing in a product that contained risk to capital and not a cash-
based ISA. I appreciate Mr B feels the risks associated with the ISA werent explained to 
him, but I do need to consider all of the evidence that has been provided. If he didnt fully 
read the documentation provided, I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible 
for that. As I understand the money is still invested, Mr B may wish to consider seeking 
investment advice if he doesnt want to take any further risk. Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs frustration, on balance, Im not persuaded Barclays departed from 
its usual sales procedures. Im satisfied it provided Mr B clear explanatory documentation 
that would have enabled him to understand the type of ISA account he had opened, and the 
risks associated with it. For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Barclays has done 
anything wrong in the circumstances. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman