DRN-3840495
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank was 
irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs W applied for a Tesco Bank credit card 2017. This was provided with an initial credit 
limit of £8,600. In 2020, the credit limit was increased to £9,600. Mrs W says that adequate 
checks werent carried out before the credit card was provided and credit limit increased. 
She says the lending has caused her financial difficulties.
Tesco Bank says that before it comes to a credit lending decision it carries out a credit check 
and checks information supplied to it with other external sources. It says that it asked Mrs W 
about her income, expenses and outstanding debts with other creditors. It said it didnt verify 
Mrs Ws income but that it was reasonable to rely on the information provided.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She thought Tesco Bank had carried out adequate 
checks before providing the credit card but thought the information it received showed that 
the lending wasnt sustainably affordable for Mrs W.
Tesco Bank didnt agree. It said that Mrs W often made repayments above the required 
minimum and that her income increased before the credit limit increase. It said based on its 
assessment of Mrs Ws disposable income both in the initial assessment and when her 
credit limit was increased, the lending was affordable.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before providing the credit card, Tesco Bank received information from Mrs W about 
her income and expenses and carried out a credit check. I didnt think the credit 
check raised concerns that meant further checks were required. 
I noted the initial credit limit provided and compared the required monthly repayments 
to Mrs Ws declared income. Having considered the size of the repayments I thought 
the checks carried out were reasonable. I therefore considered what the checks 
showed to assess whether the lending should have been considered affordable.
Tesco Banks credit check results showed that Mrs W had no judgments, 
insolvencies records or defaults recorded. There were no searches recorded in the 
previous six months. Mrs W had total outstanding debt of £4,636 of which £180 was 
a loan balance and £4,183 was revolving credit. Her utilisation rate was 49%. I didnt 
find that this raised concerns that Mrs W was struggling financially.
Tesco Bank said that Mrs Ws income wasnt verified but I didnt find it unreasonable 
that it relied on the information provided. Mrs Ws net monthly income was recorded 
as £1,600 and her expenses including rent, credit commitments and other costs 
(calculated based on an external data source) totalled just under £1,100. This left 
around £500 of disposable income.
I noted Mrs Ws utilisation rate and that had she increased this her costs would 
increase. But I didnt have anything to show that Mrs W was regularly increasing this 
to the full 100% and noted that her utilisation rate was at 49% when the credit limit 
increase took place. Therefore, I thought it reasonable to consider the costs of 
Mrs Ws commitments at the time.
Considering the credit limit of £8,600, and the minimum repayments that would be 
required to be made, I didnt find that Tesco Bank was wrong to provide Mrs W with a 
credit card with a credit limit of £8,600.
Mrs W had been using her credit card for over two years before the credit limit was 
increased. I looked through Mrs Ws statements and these showed that Mrs W was 
operating well within the credit limit for the majority of the period. Her balance was 
around £3,000 before November 2019 when she carried out a £5,000 balance 
transfer increasing her balance to just under £8,000. This was still within her credit 
limit. Mrs W was making the required minimum repayments and often making 
additional repayments. I noted there were some returned direct debit payments, but 
that Mrs W was still making the minimum repayments through other means. In the 
months leading up to the increase in the credit limit, I didnt find that Mrs Ws account 
management raised concerns.
Tesco Bank was required to ensure the additional lending was affordable for Mrs W. 
Tesco Bank has provided details of the information it gathered before the credit limit 
increase was applied. This showed that Mrs Ws net disposable income had 
increased to £724, her credit utilisation had remained the same as was the case 
when the credit card was initially provided. Mrs Ws credit check didnt show any 
defaults, judgments, or arrangements. I noted that her unsecured debt was at 
£15,658. Having considered the increase in the credit limit and noting the other 
information available, I didnt find I had enough to say that this increase should have 
been considered unaffordable.
Mrs W didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said that the additional payments 
towards her account were being made by her partner at that time towards his share of the 
spending. She said the credit limit was increased at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
she couldnt work through the lockdowns. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before providing the credit card account and credit limit to Mrs W, Tesco was required to 
carry out proportionate checks to ensure the lending was affordable. There isnt a specific 
set of checks that need to take place, but Tesco Bank was required to undertake reasonable 
checks taking into consideration the size and duration of the lending.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out by Tesco Bank before 
providing the credit card an initial limit were reasonable. As these didnt raise concerns that Mrs W was struggling financially or that the credit limit would be unaffordable, I do not find 
that Tesco Bank was wrong to provide Mrs W with the credit card.
In 2020, Mrs Ws credit limit was increased. I note the comments she has made about 
Covid-19 pandemic affecting her income. The credit limit was increased in February 2020, 
before the lockdowns were in place. I appreciate that Covid-19 affected customers in 
different ways, but I cant say that Tesco Bank shouldnt have provided credit limit increases 
in cases where its checks didnt raise concerns. We would however expect it to provide 
support if a customer contacted it about financial issues airing from the Covid-19 pandemic. 
In this case, before the credit limit increase took place Mrs Ws account was being well 
managed and the affordability checks at the time didnt raise concerns. Therefore, I do not 
find I have enough evidence to say that Tesco Bank did anything wrong by increasing 
Mrs Ws credit limit.
I understand this decision is disappointing for Mrs W but in this case, I do not find I can 
uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman