DRN-2348239
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Calpe Insurance Company Limited handled and settled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with Calpe. In February 2019 he was involved in an 
accident and the other party made a claim on their insurance policy. The third party insurer 
notified Calpe of the accident in April 2019 and, after investigating the circumstances, Calpe 
decided Mr A was liable. It looked to settle the claim and asked Mr A to pay the excess of 
£3,000. Mr A complained about the amount of the settlement, which was about £7,000. He 
said he wasnt given the opportunity to dispute the costs claimed. He was also unhappy with 
the time it took to settle the claim, the lack of communication from Calpe and the amount of 
the excess he was being asked to pay. Calpe didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of his policy and thought it had dealt with the claim 
fairly. 
Our investigator didnt think Calpe needed to do anything more. He thought it had settled the 
claim fairly and within a reasonable time. He also thought the excess had been applied in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr A remains unhappy, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr A but, having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr As policy is whats known as an all sections excess policy. This means Mr A is required 
to pay his excess even if he doesnt make a claim for damage to his own car. So, for any 
claim against Mr As policy, including a claim from a third party, hes required to pay his 
policy excess. Mr As policy schedule is a two-page document. On page one, under Total 
Excess, it says the policy has a £3,000 All Sections Excess for All Drivers. The terms and 
conditions of the policy define what excess means and explain when the excess amount is 
payable. Mr A hasnt said he wasnt aware of the amount of the excess, only that he doesnt 
think it was warranted. But Im satisfied Calpe gave Mr A clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the amount of his excess and when it would be applied.  
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say the policy holder is liable for any claim made 
(by him or any third party) on his policy up to an amount of the value of the excess on the 
policy. Because the cost of the claim in this case exceeded £3,000, Mr As policy excess 
meant that he was liable for the first £3,000 of the claim. 
Mr A complained he wasnt given the opportunity to challenge the costs claimed by the third 
party. Calpe said it was entitled to settle any third party claim even if Mr A disagreed with its 
position. And, in light of the terms and conditions of his policy, I think thats fair and 
reasonable. The conditions of the policy say that Calpe has full power to conduct the 
defence and admit negligence for any accident or claim on Mr As behalf. It also says it can 
settle any claim without reference to Mr A and any settlement will have the effect of having 
been made with his agreement. So, I dont think it acted unreasonably in settling the claim 
without giving Mr A the opportunity to dispute the costs claimed by the third party.
And what of the costs themselves? Mr A said the third party drove away from the accident 
with only minor scratches and he doesnt think Calpe should have agreed to pay all the costs 
claimed by the third party insurers. Its not uncommon for a minor accident to cost more than 
a policy holder would expect. Third party claims often include garage repair costs and car 
hire costs. And the cost of repair can also be more than they would expect as there might be 
more damage than is apparent when looking at the exterior. I would expect Calpe to 
challenge any costs that might seem unfair. It didnt do that in this case and having looked at 
the evidence I think that was fair. The garage has given a detailed breakdown of the work 
done to repair the third partys car and the report shared with Mr A set out how the costs 
were worked out. The costs seem reasonable for the type of repairs that were needed.  
Most of the settlement costs paid by Calpe were for the hire car. The daily rate doesnt seem 
unreasonable but the car was hired for 25 days, which is a lengthy period and explains why 
the costs were so high. But the third partys car was taken in for repair just before the 
Christmas and New Year period, which meant the car was hired for longer than would 
otherwise have been necessary. And Calpe had no control over that. 
Its not for me to decide on the exact amount an insurer should pay in a situation like this. 
But I would expect an insurer to act fairly, reasonably and within the policy terms. In light of 
the above, I think it did that. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Calpe to accept the 
costs and settle the claim.
Mr A was also unhappy with the amount of contact it had from Calpe and with the time it took 
to settle the claim. The evidence shows that Calpe tried to contact Mr A on the same day the 
third party insurer notified it of the claim. It then looked to get the information it needed. 
There were delays getting a DVLA check due to a discrepancy with the V5 certificate. And 
there were then more delays while the repairs were being made to the third partys car and 
while waiting for the costs to be finalised. But these werent due to any delays by Calpe and I 
can see it was proactive in chasing progress. There were lengthy periods when Calpe wasnt 
in contact with Mr A but I can see that it contacted him when it needed more information or 
when it had something to say. On balance, Im satisfied it kept Mr A up to date with any 
significant progress and tried to settle the claim as quickly as possible. 
I recognise Mr As strength of feeling but, in light of the above, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask Calpe to do anything differently.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman