DRN-2113063
The complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has travel insurance as a benefit of his bank account.
In August 2018, Mr A booked a skiing trip. He was due to travel in late December 2019 with 
his family. Sadly, Mr As father passed away due to metastatic prostate cancer. Hed been 
diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2016. So Mr A had to cancel his trip and made a claim on 
his travel insurance policy.
UKI considered the claim and the available medical evidence. It initially turned down Mr As 
claim because it said his father had been given a terminal prognosis before Mr A booked his 
trip. It later turned down the claim because it said Mr As father had been a hospital inpatient 
with a related condition within the 12 months before Mr A booked the trip. This is specifically 
excluded by the policy terms.
Mr A was unhappy with UKIs decision and he complained. He said his father had been 
admitted to hospital in July 2018 for dizziness related to diabetes. While hed been an 
inpatient, the family had mentioned his father had had a bump on the head a few weeks 
before which hadnt subsided. The hospital decided to give Mr As father an MRI scan and 
during the scan, metastatic brain tumours were found. So Mr A said his fathers admission 
hadnt been down to his prostate cancer  the discovery of the metastasis was an incidental 
finding. He also said his father hadnt told him that hed been given a terminal prognosis until 
a couple of days after he booked the holiday. 
And Mr A was also dissatisfied with the way UKI had handled the claim. It hadnt kept him 
updated; itd sent the wrong medical certificates out, which had meant Mr A had to pay for 
the right certificates; itd given him conflicting reasons for turning down the claim. He said 
hed also been told by two call handlers that his claim would be paid.
UKI looked into Mr As concerns. It maintained its decision to turn down the claim. But it 
acknowledged that it hadnt communicated with Mr A as well as it couldve done. It had sent 
him out the wrong medical certificate and UKI accepted that Mr A had been told his claim 
would be paid.  So it agreed to refund Mr A for the cost of a medical certificate and it offered 
him compensation of £175 for the distress and inconvenience its errors had caused him.
Mr A remained unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Mr A had 
known that his father had been given a terminal prognosis before he booked the holiday. 
But hed considered Mr As father discharge notes from July 2018. These stated that his 
principal diagnosis had been brain metastasis from prostate cancer. So he felt this was the 
main reason Mr As father had become an inpatient. The policy specifically excludes claims if 
a policyholders close relative had been an inpatient with a related condition in the 12 
months before the holiday was booked. As Mr As father seemed to have been in hospital 
due to his prostate cancer, the investigator felt it was fair for UKI to rely on the term to turn 
down Mr As claim. 
The investigator also considered the compensation UKI had offered Mr A. While he 
acknowledged it had caused Mr A some distress and inconvenience, he thought the 
compensation itd offered was fair.
Mr A disagreed. He said he intended to get a letter from his fathers GP to support his claim. 
But due to the current situation, his wife confirmed they hadnt been able to obtain a letter. 
She said she thought the letter wouldve said that Mr A hadnt known about his fathers 
hospitalisation when the trip was booked.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr As claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered the circumstances of Mr As 
claim, the available medical evidence and the terms of Mr As policy to decide whether I 
think UKI looked at Mr As claim fairly.
Ive first considered the cancellation section of Mr As policy. This provides cover of up to 
£5000 per insured person if they need to cancel their trip. But it also includes things the 
policy doesnt cover. It says:
What you are not covered for
A terminal prognosis being given to a travelling companion, a member of your immediate 
family or a business partner prior to the journey being booked or the insurance being taken 
out, whichever is first.
A medical condition of a travelling companion, or (whether travelling or not) either a member 
of your immediate family or a business partner which has resulted in that person being a 
hospital inpatient or being put on a waiting list for hospital treatment in the 12 months before 
the start of this insurance or you booking the journey, whichever is later.
UKI initially turned down Mr As claim because it said his father had been given a terminal 
prognosis before he booked the trip. It seems to me, from the hospital records, that the brain 
metastases had been found during Mr As fathers admission in July 2018. However, it isnt 
clear that the fact his care would then be palliative was communicated to him, until 13 
August 2018. I say this because thats the same date Mr As fathers oncologist said he saw 
Mr As father and discussed his prognosis with him. And this was the same date Mr A 
booked his skiing trip.
It seems unlikely that Mr A wouldve gone ahead with booking a holiday on the same day he 
learned his fathers condition was terminal, especially as the oncologist had suggested that 
his life expectancy couldve been in the small number of months. Mr A says that his father 
didnt tell him about his prognosis until 17 August 2018  four days after the trip was booked. I find this plausible and persuasive. So I think it would be unreasonable for UKI to rely on this 
particular exclusion clause to turn down Mr As claim.
However, Ive then turned to consider the discharge summary from Mr As fathers hospital 
admission in July 2018, to see what was recorded as the main reason for it. I appreciate Mr 
A says it was because his father had passed out due to his blood pressure and sugar levels. 
And that the only reason for the MRI was because the family let the hospital know his father 
had had a bump to his head which hadnt gone down. I appreciate Mr A feels that the brain 
tumours the MRI found were an incidental finding. So he strongly believes the cause of Mr 
As fathers admission wasnt down to his existing prostate cancer.
The discharge summary states: Principal diagnosis  new brain metastases from prostate 
cancer. It states that Mr As fathers presenting diagnosis was unsteady and unwell. The 
report also says: Admitted with presenting complaint of collapse. Patient has background 
history of Ca prostate with spinal and bone metastasis. Wife reported that patient has 
become very vague and extremely tired. It seems Mr As father had collapsed the night 
before he was admitted.
I can see that the discharge summary does refer to Mr As father having poor glycaemic 
control and suggested that his blood glucose should be monitored afterwards. But I cant see 
that the treating hospital stated that his diabetes or blood pressure were the main reason for 
Mr As fathers admission. The available medical evidence clearly suggests that the main 
reason Mr As father had been admitted was because of brain tumours caused by metastatic 
prostate cancer. So it seems to me that Mr As father was an inpatient due to the medical 
condition that led to the claim within the 12 months before Mr A booked the trip. This means 
I think it was fair for UKI to rely on this exclusion clause to turn down Mr As claim.
Mr A had intended to provide us with further evidence from his fathers GP. Due to the 
current situation, he hasnt been able to do so. But his wife told us that she thinks the GP 
wouldve said they werent aware that Mr As father had been hospitalised when the trip was 
booked. Having reviewed Mr As original complaint points, it doesnt seem hes previously 
suggested he was unaware that his father had been hospitalised  simply that he hadnt 
been aware of the terminal prognosis. If he is able to obtain medical evidence which 
suggests that he was unaware that his father than been hospitalised before booking the trip, 
then its open to Mr A to send it onto UKI for it to consider.
Finally, Ive gone onto consider whether the compensation UKI has offered Mr A is fair and 
reasonable. Its clear that there were delays in the handling of the claim; that Mr A was given 
conflicting information and that there were administrative errors. I also dont doubt how 
frustrating and upsetting it mustve been for Mr A to be told twice that his claim would be 
settled, only for it to be turned down, at an already very distressing time. So I think it was fair 
for UKI to recognise this and offer Mr A compensation. In my view, £175 feels reasonable to 
recognise the impact UKIs errors had on Mr A and the trouble and upset its actions caused 
him. So if UKI hasnt already made this payment, it should now do so..My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman