DRN-3315745
The complaint
Mrs O complains ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) didnt process the surrender of her bond at 
the correct value resulting in a loss of £944.95. She also complains ReAssure delayed 
payment of the funds.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. In summary, Mrs Os financial advisor instructed ReAssure to surrender the 
bond on 15 October 2020. However, Mrs O became concerned and her representative and 
financial advisor both complained about the delay and value of the funds. 
ReAssure responded to the complaint and made a payment of £200 to Mrs O. They also 
made an interest payment to reflect the period in which Mrs O went without the funds. 
Mrs O remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Our Investigator issued a 
view explaining why she felt ReAssure had already reasonably resolved the complaint. Mrs 
O didnt agree. Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fund value
ReAssure have confirmed they accepted 15 October 2020 as the date the fund switch was 
requested. ReAssure have explained they use a method of forward pricing which meant the 
value was calculated after the transaction was confirmed. So, this was the price on the date 
of transaction as calculated at the end of the day. ReAssure have confirmed the value for the 
fund switch was £143,033. This was the final value of the units as confirmed on 16 October 
2020, and as if the instructions to switch were received on 15 October 2020. 
I appreciate Mrs O expected to receive more as her financial advisor had let her know the 
value was above £144,000. But Im satisfied the value was correct based on the date 
ReAssure agreed to honour and I dont consider they have caused Mrs O any financial loss 
here. 
Nevertheless, I can see that ReAssure didnt pay the surrender value until 20 November 
2020. Theyve explained they usually make the payment within ten working days and it could 
have been transferred by 29 October 2020. I appreciate Mrs Os financial advisor raised 
concerns about the value and the transfer was put on hold. But given the time which passed 
before transferring the value, there does seem to be some delay. I note ReAssure have paid 
Mrs O £200 in recognition of the trouble and upset. 
ReAssure also added interest to the funds to reflect the time Mrs O had without them. Mrs 
Os representative has said Mrs O shouldnt be penalised because she couldnt do more with 
the funds at the time. She said she couldnt reinvest because her financial advisor had 
terminated the relationship. 
However, Im satisfied it was fair for ReAssure to apply an interest rate of around 1.1% on 
the funds between 23 October 2020 and 20 November 2020. This appropriately reflects the 
period for which Mrs O didnt have the funds. When she did receive the funds, I understand 
they remained in two separate savings accounts until she appointed a new financial advisor 
and reinvested. So, had the funds been transferred earlier, I dont think Mrs O would have 
been in a position to invest any sooner but would have kept them in the savings accounts. 
Complaint 
ReAssure received a complaint from Mrs Os financial advisor on 15 December 2020. Mrs 
Os representative also complained to ReAssure on 21 February 2021. The representative 
felt their complaint was on different terms and focused more strongly on the differential value 
and impact to Mrs O. I understand she feels strongly a response should have been sent to 
her directly and ReAssure should have checked her advisor was still instructed. 
ReAssure issued a single response to the financial advisor on 16 March 2021. I note 
ReAssure dealt with her advisors throughout the transfer. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
for ReAssure to have only sent a response to Mrs Os financial advisor and they could 
expect the advisor to inform Mrs O of the outcome.  
I can see some time passed between when it was raised by Mrs Os advisor and when a 
response was issued. Also, Mrs Os representative sent follow up emails. However, Mrs O 
understood a complaint had been raised by her advisor. She also wasnt prevented from 
contacting our service about her concerns. So, Im not going to ask ReAssure to do anything 
further here. 
Mrs O was also concerned the £200 was paid although she said she didnt accept it. Whilst I 
can understand her concern here, ReAssure sent the payment to recognise the impact to 
her. She was still in a position whereby she didnt have to accept the payment as a 
resolution to her complaint and indeed escalated the matter to our service. 
Putting things right 
ReAssure have already paid Mrs O £200 to recognise the impact of their service and £121 
for interest on the bond between 23 October 2020 and 20 November 2020. For the reasons 
outlined above, Im satisfied this suitably recognises the trouble and upset caused, as well 
as the period Mrs O was without the funds. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint because it has already been reasonably resolved by 
ReAssure Limited and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman