DRN-3728135
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC changed the contractual monthly mortgage 
payment he needed to make without a sufficient explanation for why it did so. Hes also 
unhappy that it applied his overpayments as a part redemption to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr D had an existing mortgage with Barclays. This complaint is in relation to events that 
occurred after he sought to switch rates to a new three-year fixed rate deal in 2021.
For context, Mr D had been overpaying his mortgage each month for years and so had built 
up an overpayment balance of over £6,000 at the time  this is sometimes referred to as his 
prepayment balance.
In August 2021 the mortgage information sheet Barclays sent Mr D said that his estimated 
monthly payment would be £407.32. However, in October 2021 Mr D received a revised 
payment notice which said his contractual monthly payment was £466.42. 
Mr D contacted Barclays (by telephone and in writing) to find out why there was such a 
difference between these amounts given the other terms of the mortgage, such as the 
interest rate and mortgage term, remained the same.
Barclays explained that it uses two balances internally to operate Mr Ds mortgage: a loan 
balance and a calculating capital balance.
It said the original figure provided to Mr D in August 2021 was based on his calculating 
capital balance (which includes his overpayments). But Barclays system uses the loan 
balance (which doesnt include his overpayments) to calculate the contractual monthly 
payments, and this is why the figure quoted in October 2021 was higher.
Following a call between Mr D and Barclays, Barclays applied Mr Ds overpayments to part 
redeem his mortgage. Barclays wrote to Mr D in November 2021 to confirm this reduced 
Mr Ds contractual monthly payments to £396.93. Mr D has since reduced his repayments 
from £625 that he was (over)paying to his contractual monthly payment.
Mr D says he never asked Barclays to part-redeem his mortgage and he feels that he has 
lost out on repaying his mortgage early. Barclays said that by using the overpayments to 
part-redeem Mr Ds mortgage he was able to reduce his contractual monthly payment as he 
wanted and offered him £100 compensation for the confusion caused.
Mr D complained to our service. He initially wanted Barclays to honour the contractual 
monthly repayment from Barclays letter in August 2021 and to have his overpayment 
balance restored. But hes since asked for £7,000 to compensate him for the effect Barclays 
actions have had on his remaining mortgage term.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, they thought that Barclays was operating 
the account and treating Mr Ds overpayments in line with the guidance in its letters and on 
its website. They didnt think Mr D had been financially disadvantaged by what had 
happened.
Mr D didnt agree, he said the calls provided to our service supported his case and he still 
felt hed be repaying his mortgage for longer as a result of Barclays mistake.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £100 Barclays has already paid Mr D is fair in the circumstances 
and so Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
I think its always been clear what the remaining balance is that Mr D owes Barclays 
under the mortgage. This figure is set out on the mortgage information sheet, on 
each revised payment notice, and on his annual statements. Mr Ds annual 
statements show his overpayments reducing his balance by the amount paid and not 
just by the contractual monthly payment.
In some of Mr Ds calculations hes not treated the overpayments as having already 
been included in his balance and so hes double counted them. However, each 
revised payment notice explains under the reason(s) for changeabout 
overpayments section that the overpayments are reflected in Mr Ds outstanding 
balance but not included when Barclays calculate his new monthly payment, so Im 
satisfied this was clear. Barclays also pointed him to its website which explains 
overpayments in more detail.
I think Barclays was clear in its explanation on the phone about how overpayments 
worked and how changing Mr Ds monthly payments would affect the term of his 
mortgage.
The original figure Barclays provided to Mr D in August 2021 took into account Mr Ds 
overpayment balance, but Barclays revised this figure because its policy is not to 
include overpayments when calculating contractual monthly payments unless a 
partial redemption is made. This is so that overpayments actually reduce the term of 
the mortgage. But in practice its made no difference to what Mr D owes Barclays in 
total, its only reduced what he has to pay monthly. And if Mr D had wanted to, he 
could have continued to make overpayments to reduce the term of his mortgage. 
I agree Mr D doesnt appear to have requested the partial redemption of his 
mortgage, but I dont think this has caused Mr D any financial loss and its not the 
reason for any changes to the term of his mortgage. As Mr Ds motive appears to 
have been to reduce the term of his mortgage rather than to make underpayments at 
a later date, I cant see this has disadvantaged him in the circumstances.
I think the £100 compensation paid is a fair amount to recognise the initial confusion 
caused as Barclays has since provided a sufficient explanation. And so I dont think 
Barclays needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman