DRN-3608289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) declined 
their claim for a replacement boiler and carpet under their household insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds boiler burst on the 12 March 2021. Water escaping from it spilled on to the 
hearth and carpet in front of it.
AA declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim for the damage to both the boiler and the carpet. The 
surveyors report said that the escape of water from the boiler had most likely been caused 
by wear and tear and there was no water damage or marks to the carpet. AA said that 
because the damage had occurred gradually it was excluded from cover. Mr and Mrs D 
complained. AAs final response letter to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint said it was satisfied that 
the exclusion for gradual damage was applicable to their claim.
 
Mr and Mrs D told AA that the surveyor hadnt carried out a thorough enough examination of 
their stove and questioned whether the surveyor was qualified enough to carry out an 
assessment of a boiler like theirs. They said it was unreasonable for AA to say that the 
cause of damage was wear and tear because the surveyors report also said that the exact 
cause of the damage couldnt be determined and also that the stove had been well-
maintained.
Mr and Mrs D also told AA theyd cleaned the carpet twice on the day following the escape 
of water, which explained why the carpet looked as it did when its surveyor attended. They 
said theyd had to eventually replace it because a white coating became visible once it 
began to dry and it began to smell. They said the plumber who installed the new stove said 
the carpet wouldve been irreparably damaged by the chemicals in the water from the boiler.
Mr and Mrs D replaced the boiler and the carpet and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint because damage caused gradually was excluded 
from cover by Mr and Mrs Ds policys terms. Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this outcome 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision.
 
My provisional decision
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
The boiler
Mr and Mrs Ds contents policy terms exclude loss or damage arising from gradually 
operating causes including wear and tear. AA have said that a boiler can be well-maintained 
and still suffer wear and tear. Mr and Mrs D say that AAs surveyors assessment was 
flawed. But for me to be able to consider whether the conclusions of AAs surveyor were 
wrong, Mr and Mrs D would need to provide an experts opinion saying that the damage 
wasnt caused by wear and tear.  I asked Mr and Mrs D if they had any expert evidence 
about the state of the damaged stove. But Mr and Mrs D didnt provide any such evidence in 
response. So even though AAs surveyor said that the exact cause of the damage cant be 
determined but that wear and tear is the most likely cause  and because Ive not seen any 
expert evidence demonstrating that this conclusion is wrong - it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require AA to cover the cost of Mr and Mrs Ds replacement stove 
when damage caused by wear and tear is excluded from their cover.
The carpet
Mr and Mrs Ds policy includes cover for accidental damage to their home contents. 
Accidental damage is defined in their policy terms as unexpected and unintended damage 
caused by sudden and external means. 
The carpet was damaged by water from the boiler which burst suddenly and unexpectedly. 
Both the boiler and the water from it are external to the carpet. I cant say that the damage to 
the carpet was intended. So I think its reasonable to say that the damage to the carpet 
meets the definition of accidental damage as set out in Mr and Mrs Ds policy wording. 
But AA says the damage to the carpet was gradual and so is excluded from cover. When an 
insurer says damage is excluded from cover, we think its reasonable for an insurer to prove 
that the exclusion applies. AA has provided an experts opinion saying that the damage to Mr 
and Mrs Ds boiler occurred gradually. But it hasnt demonstrated that the water damaged 
the carpet gradually. So I dont think AA has proved that the gradual damage exclusion can 
be applied to the damage to Mr and Mrs Ds carpet.
AA also told us that the carpet wouldnt be covered because damage as a result of 
mechanical or electrical breakdowns or failure are not covered. But the carpet was damaged 
by water spilling on to it, which is neither mechanical nor electrical, so I cant say its fair or 
reasonable for AA to decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim on these grounds.
So I think its fair and reasonable that AA cover the cost of Mrs and Mr Ds replacement 
carpet.  Im minded to require AA to reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the £3,500  less any 
relevant excesses -  they paid to replace their carpet as set out in their receipt for the carpet, 
plus 8% simple interest from the date they paid for it. 
Fixing the leak
Mr and Mrs D say that AA should pay what it cost them to fix the leak to their boiler. Mr and 
Mrs Ds policy terms dont provide cover for the fixing of leaks. Mr and Mrs D didnt have 
home emergency cover, which may have offered some help towards fixing the leak.  So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require AA to reimburse Mr and Mrs D what they 
said they spent on the emergency repair of the leak to the stove.
 
Distress and inconvenience
Mr D told this service that AA said it would cover the damage to the carpet. Ive listened to 
the call Mr D made to AA to notify it of the leak. I can hear the call handler say to Mr D that he has accidental damage cover and what the excesses were, but not that the claim would 
be covered.
 
Mr and Mrs D also told this service AAs surveyor had told them when he left that they had a 
genuine claim. But there is no evidence of this conversation.
 
So I cant say that the call   or any other evidence Ive reviewed  demonstrates that Mr and 
Mrs D were given assurances by AA that their claim for their boiler or their carpet would be 
covered. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require AA to pay Mr and Mrs D compensation for 
misleading them.
But I intend to require AA to pay Mr and Mrs D £200 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused them by initially rejecting their claim for their carpet, which I think shouldve been 
settled by AA rather than declined.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs D said they wouldve got an experts report into the boiler had it not been 
scrapped and said they felt it was unfair theyd been asked to provide proof of why the boiler 
burst when theyd taken out insurance in good faith. They felt it should be AAs responsibility 
to provide proof to support its refusal of their claim.
AA pointed out in its response that:
its supplier advised that there was no damage to the carpet and had said that the 
carpet appeared to be in good condition with no marks present. 
Mr and Mrs D had replaced the carpet without obtaining its permission to do so when 
their policys terms said that they must not dispose of any damaged items until 
weve had the chance to inspect them. It said it wouldve sent a carpet restoration 
specialist to inspect the carpet and neutralize the odour had Mr and Mrs D not 
disposed of it before receiving a final decision on their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D hadnt provided any evidence that the carpet was damaged.
It was Mr and Mrs Ds plumber whod said the carpet was irreparably damaged, not a 
carpet specialist.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
The boiler
Mr and Mrs D said it was unfair that theyd been asked to provide proof of why their boiler 
had burst. But AAs inspection of their boiler was carried out by a boiler specialist who said 
the most likely cause of the damage was wear and tear. As I said in my provisional decision, for me to be able to consider whether the conclusions of AAs expert were wrong, Mr and 
Mrs D would need to provide an experts opinion saying that the damage wasnt caused by 
wear and tear. And because Ive not seen any such evidence, I cant say AAs experts 
conclusions are wrong. So Mr and Mrs Ds response doesnt persuade me to depart from my 
provisional finding that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require AA to cover the cost 
of Mr and Mrs Ds replacement stove.
The carpet
Mr and Mrs D provided this service with photographs taken on the day they notified AA of 
the incident. The photos show them vacuuming the carpet, which appears to be wet, with 
specialised equipment. Mr D told AA when he made the claim that his carpet made a 
splashing sound when he walked on it. So Im satisfied that water from the boiler came into 
contact with Mr and Mrs Ds carpet.
AAs inspection of the carpet was carried out by a boiler specialist  not a carpet specialist. 
Its reasonable then to think that a boiler specialist most likely wouldnt be able to appreciate 
the full extent of the water damage to the carpet, especially when Mr and Mrs D had 
attempted to dry its surface before the visit. Mr and Mrs D said that the carpets underlay had 
remained wet and the carpet began to smell. So, Im not persuaded on balance that Mr and 
Mrs Ds carpet wasnt at all damaged because AAs boiler specialist said that it wasnt. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt replace the carpet until the end of July 2021. Around six weeks earlier - 
on 6 June 2021  they told AA that although the carpet had now dried, there was a chemical 
smell coming from it and a white powder had formed on top of it. Given that AAs earlier 
inspection had been carried out by a boiler specialist and the smell developed after it, I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for AA to have arranged a second inspection. AA had a 
reasonable amount of time to arrange an inspection between Mr and Mrs D telling it about 
the smell and them disposing of the carpet. But no inspection was arranged. So I dont think 
its fair or reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs D disposed of the carpet before giving AA the 
chance to inspect it.
AA also had six weeks from when Mr and Mrs D reported the carpets smell to ask them for 
any evidence of the damage it felt was necessary. But AA didnt ask for any evidence. So I 
dont think its fair or reasonable to say now that Mr and Mrs Ds claim should be declined 
because they didnt provide evidence of the damage. 
So  for the reasons Ive outlined above - I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
finding that AA should reimburse Mr and Mrs D for their damaged carpet, but not their boiler.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I instruct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs D the £3,500 (less any relevant excesses) they paid to replace their carpet, 
plus 8% simple interest from the date they paid for it. 
If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require AA to pay Mr and Mrs D £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
them by initially rejecting their claim for their carpet.  AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs D accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman