DRN-2684699
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Watford Insurance Company Limited refused to recalculate his 
motor insurance premium when his no claims discount (NCD) was amended. He also 
complained that it unfairly charged him additional fees when he cancelled the policy.
Reference to Watford includes its agents.
What happened
A broker sold Mr H a policy underwritten by Watford in May 2019. At that time Mr H said he 
had two years NCD. Around four months later Mr Hs former insurer closed an open claim 
against his previous policy marking it as notification only/non fault. It updated Mr Hs NCD  
entitlement to show he was entitled to nine years NCD from May 2019. Mr H told Watford 
about his change in NCD and asked it to recalculate his policy from the date he took it out. 
Watford refused to do so.
Mr H cancelled his policy. When he did so Watford agreed to waive its cancellation fee of 
£75. But the broker charged Mr H for a number of other things associated with the 
cancellation. And, after offsetting the amounts Mr H had already paid, the broker said he still 
owed it around £238.
Mr H didn't think that either Watford or the broker had treated him fairly and he complained 
to us. One of our investigators looked at Mr Hs complaint about Watford's actions but he 
didn't think it had done anything wrong. He issued a separate assessment relating to Mr Hs 
complaint about the broker. Mr H didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of his 
complaint about Watford.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I've said above Mr H was unhappy with the actions of both Watford and the broker. And 
I've seen that occasionally the broker has taken action on Watfords behalf, but where the 
brokers done that, I will refer to its actions as being Watfords. But the two businesses are 
distinct entities. And another ombudsman has already issued a decision concerning Mr Hs 
complaint about the broker. So, I don't intend to make any finding about the brokers actions 
in connection with its charges in this decision, and where I refer to those actions below those 
are for context only.
I think it might help if I explain that before Mr H took out his Watford policy he was covered 
by another insurer unrelated to this complaint. While he had that policy, in March 2019, he 
was involved in a driving incident, which he told his insurer about. And when insurers are 
informed of such a driving incident they are under an obligation to record it on a shared 
insurance database. And insurers will record whether or not the driver concerned is at fault 
for the incident or not. And where that claim has yet to be settled or not enough time has 
passed to establish that a claim isn't going to be made, the potential claim is known as being 
open. And its usual for insurers to consider an open claim as being a fault claim until its 
shut down or marked as non-fault. And that open claim will affect the relevant drivers NCD.
At the time Mr H bought his Watford policy the incident from March 2019 was still open. So, 
his former insurer treated it as a fault claim and reduced Mr Hs NCD to two years. But 
around four months later the former insurer told Mr H that no claim had been made and it 
had reinstated his NCD to nine years from May 2019. But when Mr H asked Watford to 
recalculate his premium from the date his policy began, it refused. It said that it had based 
his policy premium on the risk he presented at the time he applied for the policy. And that 
Mr H accepted that premium so he wasn't entitled to a refund. I think Watfords position is 
unfair.
I accept that Watford calculated Mr Hs premium based on the risk it thought he presented at 
the time. And that risk included a recent open claim and two years NCD. But we now know 
that the perceived level of risk wasn't right. That's because, in fact, Mr Hs risk was lower. 
The potential for a fault claim against him had been removed and his former insurer had 
reinstated his NCD to nine years. So, while Watford had calculated Mr Hs premium initially 
in good faith and based on the information available to it at the time, the risk it based its 
calculation on was later shown to be wrong. In those circumstances, the fair thing for it to do 
would have been to recalculate Mr Hs premium based on the updated details. But it refused 
to do so and I think that refusal was unreasonable.
And as a result of that refusal Mr H cancelled his policy. When he did so, Watford charged 
Mr H for his time on cover at the premium he initially bought his policy for. I don't think that 
was fair because that premium was likely to be more than it should have been as it was 
based on a perceived higher level of risk. So I think Watford should recalculate Mr Hs 
premium based on his actual risk, after the previous claim had been closed down and with 
Mr Hs nine years NCD entitlement. And it should work out if Mr H is due a refund based 
upon that recalculated premium.
Further, because Mr H cancelled his policy, the broker applied charges to his account that 
he wouldn't have had to pay but for that cancellation. And, as I think he only cancelled his 
policy because of Watfords decision to refuse to recalculate his premium, I don't think it's 
fair that he's out of pocket as a result of having to pay the brokers additional charges.
So to put things right, I think its fair that Watford reimburses Mr H for any charges hes 
already paid to the broker because of the cancellation. And, if there is still a balance left 
owing to the broker because of those charges, then Watford should take responsibility for 
sorting out that balance with the broker. Further, it should add simple interest to any sums it 
reimburses to Mr H at a rate of 8% a year simple from the date he asked Watford to  
recalculate the premium to the date it reimburses him. Also, as this matter has clearly been a 
source of frustration for Mr H, I think it should pay him £150 compensation to address his 
distress and inconvenience.
For completeness Mr H said that he thought Watford had charged him hidden fees. But I 
don't think thats the case. The only administration charge Watford considered applying at 
cancellation was a £75 cancellation fee which it agreed to waive. The other charges Mr H 
referred to all appear to have been applied by the broker. So, I don't intend to comment on 
those further.
Neither Watford nor Mr H commented on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Watford nor Mr H have objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Recalculate Mr Hs premium from May 2019 to correctly recognise the amended risk 
after the March 2019 incident was found to be notification only/non-fault and with 
nine years NCD. And to reimburse Mr H with any amount hes overpaid.
Reimburse Mr H for any charges hes paid to the broker as a result of the 
cancellation of the policy. Watford should take responsibility for sorting out any 
unpaid broker charges because of the cancellation directly with the broker.
Add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to any sums it reimburses Mr H with, for 
both the refund of premium and broker charges, from the date he asked it to 
recalculate his premium because of the update to his NCD and the date it refunds 
him1.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience. It should 
pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr H has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also add interest to that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.