DRN-1578095
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank plc ("Natwest") prevented him from moving 
money using his online account while he was overseas.
What happened
Mr G holds a current account with Natwest. He was overseas in Australia and found he was 
unable to transfer money from his Natwest account to his Australian account. And after 
making numerous calls, a card reader was sent to Mr G to enable him to authenticate the 
payment requests; but he was unable to activate it. 
Mr G was unable to resolve the matter with Natwest, so says he then had no choice but to fly 
back to the UK to sort it out. He went into his local branch and was unhappy to learn that the 
device just required activating online, which he says Natwest failed to tell him. He also 
complained that Natwests fraud department had blocked one of his currency transactions, 
which required him to visit his branch with identification to unlock the payment. Mr G wants 
the costs of his flights from Australia reimbursed, as well as more compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Natwest partly upheld Mr Gs complaint. They concluded that they had made an error in not 
telling him how to activate his card reader properly, and that this had led to difficulties in him 
making payments. So they offered £160 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused, as well as reimbursing travel expenses of £16.50. However, Natwest 
said there had been no error in relation to his intended payment being blocked by their fraud 
team, requiring him to visit his branch with identification.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint, as she considered that the compensation offered 
for failing to tell him how to activate the card reader was not proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience suffered. So she awarded a further £100. However, the investigator did not 
think Natwest could fairly be held responsible for the costs of Mr Gs flight. Natwest agreed 
to pay the additional £100 compensation. But Mr G disagreed, so the matter has been 
passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided to uphold it 
in part. 
First, I do not consider it would be fair to hold Natwest liable for the cost of Mr Gs flight just 
because they failed to tell him how to activate his card reader. He could have ensured that 
everything was set up and working before he left for Australia, which would have prevented 
any issues from arising after hed left the country. And from the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded this was the sole purpose of his return to the United Kingdom. So Im not satisfied that Natwests failure to give proper instructions was a proximate cause of Mr Gs financial 
loss here  as I dont think it was a foreseeable consequence of their actions/omissions.
However, I do agree that their service has fallen below an acceptable standard, such that 
further compensation is warranted. Ive considered the compensation paid by Natwest, as 
well as the additional amount awarded by the investigator, which amounts to £260 in total. 
Mr G does not feel this is commensurate to the trouble and upset caused by Natwests 
actions, and believes further compensation is payable.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mr G, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Natwest have had a greater impact than moderate inconvenience or upset.
Ive considered the service Mr G has received, and its clear he has been left frustrated, 
stressed and inconvenienced by being unable to move money between his accounts due to 
the card reader not being activated. And I appreciate it would have been very easy for 
Natwest to resolve the issue by simply giving the correct instructions on how to activate the 
device online. Mr G has explained the impact this has had on him, including how being 
unable to transfer his funds has had a detrimental impact on his mental health. So I do 
consider that further compensation is warranted on top of the £160 offered by Natwest. But I 
think the additional amount of £100 recommended by the investigator (amounting to £260 in 
total) is fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr G had further problems with Natwest given that their fraud department 
blocked a currency transaction he was attempting to make. But such measures are in place 
to ensure the safety and security of their customers accounts, and I cant say they have 
acted incorrectly or unfairly by preventing the transaction and requiring identification from Mr 
G in order for it to be processed.
However, for the times when Natwest's service did fall below standard, I consider an 
additional £100 compensation to be fair.
Putting things right
I direct National Westminster Bank plc to pay an additional £100 compensation (on top of the 
£160 they have already paid) in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman