DRN-2180823
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited misadvised him in 
connection with changing the car on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Somerset Bridge includes its agents.
Background
Somerset Bridge sold Mr M a motor policy for a premium of around £2,000. Mr M paid the 
premium in monthly instalments. The policy was underwritten by an insurer, which is a 
separate business to Somerset Bridge. Ill refer to the insurer as W.
Mr M was involved in an accident and W paid the other drivers claim. Mr M needed to 
change the car on the policy and he rang Somerset Bridge for advice about keeping his 
insurance costs down. Somerset Bridge told Mr M that he might want to think about buying a 
car with a less powerful engine. 
Mr M bought a car with a smaller engine but when he tried to add it to the policy W charged 
him an additional premium of around £335, including fees, on top of the premium he was 
already paying. Mr M said he couldn't afford to pay the additional premium and cancelled his 
policy. But, because he'd already had a claim on it, W charged him the balance of the policy 
premium.
Mr M complained. He said he would have been in a different position if Southern Bridge 
hadn't told him that buying a car with a smaller engine would reduce his premium. 
Southern Bridge acknowledged it had misadvised Mr M so it offered him £25 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our  investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Southern Bridge had dealt with Mr M fairly. She said it should increase the compensation to 
£200. Mr M didn't think that went far enough; so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
My decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold it. My award for redress will be the same as our 
investigator recommended.
Southern Bridge is an insurance broker so it sells policies, and it may help with their 
administration and collect premiums, but it doesn't provide the cover itself. As I've said 
above thats done by W. And as Southern Bridge is a separate business it's not responsible 
for Ws actions. So in this decision I don't intend to comment on Ws actions and will limit my 
findings to what Southern Bridge did.
Southern Bridge has acknowledged it gave Mr M incorrect advice when it told him that 
buying a lower powered car might result in a cheaper premium. But I don't think that means 
Mr Ms out of pocket as a result. 
In order to explain my reasons it might help if I explain that insurers take into account 
numerous different factors when deciding on what to charge for a policy. And while the 
engine size of a car might be a factor that some insurers use when calculating a premium, it 
won't be the only factor they consider. And it's certainly not the case that a car with a smaller 
engine size will inevitably be cheaper to insure than any other higher powered car. So 
Somerset Bridge was wrong to advise Mr M that a lower powered car was likely to reduce 
his premiums. 
Mr Ms said that because of the misadvice he's now significantly out of pocket as he has to 
pay the finance on his new car while continuing to pay the premium to W. But as he'd made 
a claim on his policy Mr M was always going to have to pay W the balance owing for his 
premium. That's the case regardless of what advice Somerset Bridge gave him and whether 
or not he bought a car on finance. 
Mr Ms said that if Somerset Bridge hadn't advised him to buy a car with a lower powered 
engine he would have got a run around and added it to his existing policy. But Mr M could 
have done that anyway and I don't see how Southern Bridges misadvice meant he had to 
buy a car on finance. That was Mr Ms decision alone. Also, even if Mr M had bought a run 
around theres no guarantee it would have been cheaper to insure than the car Mr M bought 
on finance. Thats because, as I've said above, insurers like W consider numerous different 
factors when calculating premiums, and - like engine size - the value of a car will only be one 
small factor that W might take into account when considering the premium. So even if Mr M 
had bought a far cheaper car, with or without a smaller engine, it still could have ended up 
requiring a higher premium in order to insure it.
It follows that I don't think the advice Southern Bridge gave to Mr M caused him to buy a car 
on finance. That was his choice alone. Similarly, I don't think Southern Bridges advice 
forced Mr M to cancel his policy, instead he could have left it in place and added the 
additional premium for his new car to his monthly instalments. And if he'd done that he 
wouldn't have had to take out a separate policy with another insurer. But Mr M chose not to 
do that, so he still owes W around £2,000. But I don't think that was because of any advice 
Southern Bridge gave to him.
Mr M said that Southern Bridges misadvice is a serious breach of Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules. That may or may not be the case. But it's not for me to determine 
whether or not Southern Bridge has broken FCA rules. And it's not our role to fine or punish 
a business for any mistakes they might make. Instead, where we find that a business 
omissions or errors have affected its customer we think about how to put things right. Its not 
in dispute that Southern Bridge gave Mr M incorrect advice and that this has caused him 
some distress and inconvenience. So in order to address that - unless it has already done so 
 I think Southern Bridge should pay Mr M £200 compensation. Im aware that Mr M doesn't 
think that goes far enough and he thinks Southern Bridge should cover the costs of the 
balance of premium he owes to W. But as I've said above I don't think Southern Bridges 
misadvice has led to Mr M owing W that premium. So I don't think its fair to instruct 
Southern Bridge to pay that sum.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so I 
require Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr M £200 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman