DRN-2749250
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont deal with part of a claim 
he made under his new home warranty.
What happened
Mr J bought a new home. It was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty which began in 
2016. He reported a number of problems to the builder of the home and to NHBC. This 
included various points about the render, particularly a concern it wasnt thick enough.
In 2017 NHBC agreed to consider the problems under Section 2 of the warranty, which is its 
Resolution Service. It directed the builder to investigate the render problems and carry out 
further repairs. I understand the builder did some of this but the problems werent resolved.
NHBC accepted further work was required to the render and it was responsible for dealing 
with it. But it said the render was thick enough and didnt think any work was required to 
make it thicker. It made a payment to Mr J for the render work it considered it was 
responsible for, which didnt include anything for increasing the thickness.
Mr J complained to NHBC. He was concerned the render wasnt as thick as it should be. He 
thought NHBC had previously agreed with him about that and had asked the builder to carry 
out work to make it thicker  but when NHBC had become responsible for the problems in 
2019, it had decided nothing further needed to be done.
NHBC said the render thickness met its technical requirements because it wasnt letting 
water in  and therefore it wasnt covered under the warranty.
Mr J referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought NHBC had acted fairly. 
Mr J didnt agree. He thought the render should be a specific minimum thickness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about whether NHBC should deal with the render thickness problem, so 
thats what Ill focus on. The payment was for other, unrelated render problems and isnt in 
dispute, so I havent considered it.
As the render thickness problem was raised within the first two years after the house was 
built, Mr Js claim was considered under Section 2 of the warranty. In summary, Section 2 
says it provides protection if the builder failed to meet NHBC Requirements. NHBC will be 
responsible for anything it decides the builder should have done  but didnt.
NHBC first considered the thickness of the render in 2018. It said the render may not be 
thick enough and the builder should check it whilst other invasive work was being carried 
out. It noted repairs would be required if the render wasnt thick enough  but not if it was 
found to be adequate. The render wasnt checked within the deadline set by NHBC.
In 2019 NHBC reported that the render thickness had been checked and was sufficient. It 
didnt require the builder to carry out any further work or investigation in relation to the render 
thickness.
Mr J remained concerned that the render wasnt thick enough. NHBC inspected it again and 
reported that it met NHBC Requirements because there were no signs of water getting into 
the house.
Having looked at the reports, Im not persuaded NHBC ever accepted the render wasnt of 
sufficient thickness. It asked the builder to check the thickness and set out what the builder 
should do if it wasnt thick enough. But once the thickness had been checked, NHBC was 
satisfied its Requirements had been met. And it didnt ask the builder to carry out any work 
or further investigations in relation to the render thickness.
NHBC has explained the relevant part of its Requirements is section 6.1  D15. This is a 
performance standard which says rendering should satisfactorily resist the passage of 
moisture. Theres further guidance within this section, including about the number and 
thickness of render coats. The introduction to the document sets out that the guidance notes 
are intended to show how the performance standards may be met. But they arent 
mandatory. And if the performance standards are followed, the Requirements are met.
Theres no dispute this performance standard has been followed as there isnt any water 
getting into Mr Js home. Because of that Im persuaded NHBCs Requirements have been 
met in relation to the render thickness.
The policy only requires NHBC to take responsibility if the builder failed to meet NHBC 
Requirements and failed to carry out anything NHBC decided it should do. Im satisfied the 
render thickness met NHBC Requirements and the builder carried out all NHBC required it to 
in relation to this point. Because of that, Im satisfied it was fair for NHBC not to accept 
Mr Js claim for the render thickness problem.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman