DRN-3357165
The complaint
Mr D complains about charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Hitachi Capital) have asked 
him to pay since he returned a car to them at the end of a lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr D responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
The seat cover damage
The BVRLA guidance says that the interior upholstery and trim must be clean and 
odourless with no burns, scratches, tears, dents or staining.
The photograph in the inspection report shows the seat upholstery to be torn and in those 
circumstances I think a charge has been fairly made. 
Its for Hitachi Capital to decide how much that charge should be, and Mr D could have 
mitigated some of it if he had arranged repairs himself before returning the car. I dont think 
the charge that Hitachi Capital have made is excessive; it seems in line with other similar 
charges Ive seen their competitors charge.
The missing repair kit
The BVRLA guidance says that the tyre inflation kit should be in full working order and 
theres no dispute that wasnt the case as Mr D had used it. So, I think Hitachi Capital were 
entitled to make a charge to replace it. 
The excess mileage charge.
Mr D completed 9,711 miles in excess of the amount his contract allowed. In those 
circumstances the contract said he would be charged 13.76p per mile. As Hitachi made a 
mistake when advising Mr D on the phone that it was only 9.17p per mile, they have now 
agreed to honour that offer. I think thats fair and Im not asking them to do anything else.
Overall, I dont think the charges Hitachi Capital have asked Mr D to pay have been 
unreasonable. Im not asking them to take any action other than that they have already 
agreed to take. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman