DRN-3369071
The complaint
Mr R complains that WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) didnt deliver his replacement mobile 
following a claim on his gadget insurance.
What happened
Mr R claimed under his mobile phone insurance policy and WDP issued a replacement 
device. However, Mr R complained he didnt receive it. 
WDP confirmed that tracking information showed its delivery driver was outside his home on 
the day and time of delivery, and the device had been signed for. WDP also said its driver 
reported speaking with Mr R immediately before delivery. Based on this information, WDP 
didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R said he didnt know the person who had signed for receipt of the device and he 
complained that the delivery driver repeatedly visited his home to persuade him to say the 
device had been delivered. He called WDP each time it happened, but WDP said there was 
no record of him calling to report further contact from the driver.
Our investigator didnt think WDP had treated Mr R fairly. He said that although there was 
limited information, Mr R had given a consistent account of events which sounded 
reasonable under the circumstances. He also pointed out that Mr R reported the missing 
device to the police and there was no evidence that he authorised or agreed for his parcel to 
be handed to a third party. Our investigator recommended that WDP settle the claim and pay 
Mr R £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
WDP didnt agree. It said the evidence showed its driver was at Mr Rs address and it 
delivered the parcel in line with the terms of the policy, which doesnt require the policyholder 
to take receipt personally.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending not to uphold 
Mr Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
This is a straightforward issue but it brings some difficulty in reaching a decision. Mr R says 
he didnt receive the device, but WDP says it delivered it to his address. Ill summarise the 
evidence.
Mr Rs evidence
He doesnt know the person named on the delivery receipt.
He didnt agree for WDP to deliver the device to that person.
The delivery driver visited him after the event to persuade him to say the device was 
delivered.
Mr R called WDP each time the driver contacted him after he complained.
His phone bills dont show use of the device.
WDPs evidence
Its delivery driver contacted Mr R on the day of delivery and was told to hand the 
parcel to a named third party, who Ill call Ms D.
Ms D signed for receipt.
The tracking information shows the driver was outside Mr Rs home when delivery 
was recorded.
WDP has delivered to the same address before without issue.
WDP denies receiving calls from Mr R saying its driver contacted him after his 
complaint.
Ive given this information considerable thought and, on the face of it, the only objective 
piece of evidence is that WDPs delivery driver was outside Mr Rs home on the day delivery 
was recorded. Every other comment made by each party listed above is subjective and cant 
be proved one way or the other using the existing evidence.
Looking at the summary of WDPs investigation into Mr Rs complaint, I see that it described 
Mr Rs home in relation to the neighbouring properties. To verify those details, I checked the 
online street view and its clear that Mr Rs home is positioned between two businesses and 
it is clearly numbered. So I think its unlikely that WDPs delivery driver would have had 
difficulty finding the correct address, and that supports its claim that it has delivered there 
before without issue.
I noted in the information provided that Mr R said Ms D didnt live there anymore. Thats 
different to saying he didnt know anyone of that name. Given this discrepancy, I carried out 
a brief check for any evidence of someone of that name living at Mr Rs address. I wasnt 
able to check the exact address but there was someone of the same, albeit unabbreviated, 
name living in that postcode. For reference, Ms Ds name is quite unusual. 
So, taking this information into consideration, Im minded to think that WDP did deliver the 
device to Ms D. 
That said, Mr R complained that he didnt authorise WDP to deliver the device to anyone 
else. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and I can see that WDP is only 
required to deliver to the correct address and it is the policyholders responsibility to ensure 
that someone is at the address to sign for it. There is no requirement on either side for that 
person to be the policyholder. 
I havent commented on every piece of information, and our rules dont require me to. But, 
on balance, I think the limited evidence available lends greater weight to WDPs position. So 
I see no reason to ask WDP to issue another replacement device. 
Ive thought about whether WDP caused any avoidable delays, distress or inconvenience in 
its handling of Mr Rs claim. It responded promptly to his original claim and issued a 
replacement device in line with the policy terms. The subsequent complaint undoubtedly 
caused Mr R some inconvenience and distress, but I cant fairly hold WDP responsible for 
that in the absence of any evidence that it did anything wrong. Therefore, I see no reason to 
ask WDP to pay Mr R any compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
WDP had nothing further to add.Mr R wanted WDP to settle the claim and pay him £200 compensation, but he didnt have 
any further evidence or comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman