DRN-3388261
The complaint
Mr C complained that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr C was given a single loan by Lendable as follows: 
Date 
takenLoan 
amount Term Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount payable 
incl loan fee and interestLoan status
22/11/2021 £5,000 60 
months£195.29 £11,707.39 outstanding
In brief summary, Mr C said that Lendable didnt check sufficiently to ensure affordability and 
suitability before providing this loan. He said hed had many issues in the past with credit 
including defaults and a large amount of debt which should have been apparent if his credit 
file had been properly examined.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs complaint. She thought that Lendable did 
sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan. She felt there wasnt anything to make 
Lendable think that the loan wouldnt be affordable and that there wasnt anything in the 
information it gathered which meant it shouldve done more to check the information it was 
relying on before lending to Mr C.
So our adjudicator didnt think Lendable had been wrong to provide Mr C with the loan. 
Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He felt that the difference of £600 
between his declared income and the amount Lendable saw he was earning meant the 
loan wasnt sustainable. His view was that Lendable shouldve looked at more than just 
12 months credit history before agreeing a five year loan  and had it done so, it 
wouldve seen numerous defaults from multiple lenders.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view of the adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Cs complaint. There are some general 
principles and questions I need to think about when deciding whether to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Lendable did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr C.
Lendable checked Mr Cs declared salary. It downgraded the amount Mr C said he earned 
and recorded his minimum monthly income was £865. So this is the figure it relied on when 
working out its affordability assessment. It also carried out credit checks to understand his 
credit history and see what his current credit commitments were and looked at Mr Cs last 
three months bank statements. 
The credit checks Lendable carried out showed that Mr C wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court 
judgements registered. There was a single default shown within the last 3 years but no 
defaults shown on his record within the last 12 months. He had two current accounts  
neither showed he was using any overdraft facility. He also had two credit card accounts 
both within their credit limit. His only other credit account shown was a telecommunications 
account that didnt show up any payment problems. His total indebtedness was just £96. He 
was using less than 20% of the credit he had available on his credit cards.
Mr Cs bank statements show that he was managing that account well  he was maintaining 
the account in credit and appeared to be managing his payments without any evident signs 
of serious financial difficulty. He was regularly making more than the minimum payments to 
his credit cards and still ending the month well in credit, which suggested a degree of 
flexibility in his finances. 
Mr C says Lendable shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to him. 
And he feels that, at around 22%, the loan repayment represented too high a proportion of 
his income to be sustainably affordable for him. But I think its fair to say that all the 
information Lendable had gathered tended to suggest that despite his past problems, Mr C 
seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he still had a serious debt problem. 
Historic payment problems dont necessarily tell a lender anything useful about someones 
current financial situation. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of 
lending to have an impaired credit history. And this wouldnt necessarily be a fair reason not 
to lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Cs credit checks was excessive 
having regard to his verified income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks Lendable carried out was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised 
it needed to find out more before lending or otherwise refuse the loan application. 
To sum up, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to lend here  especially as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr C wouldnt be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 
Lendable to probe any more deeply into Mr Cs finances or ask Mr C to do more to prove 
what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or 
omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I can appreciate that Mr C might now feel the loan was unaffordable for him. But I think Mr C 
was aware he was taking a high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the 
time. I dont think Lendable had any reason to think that Mr C wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay the loan and it went ahead only when it had provided information explaining the main 
loan costs and Mr C said he wanted to proceed. 
Im sorry that Mr C has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved 
difficult for him. I accept that Mr Cs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the other information Lendable obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr C. And I havent seen enough to make me think that Lendable acted towards Mr C in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
I expect Lendable to treat Mr C positively and sympathetically if he is continuing to 
experience financial difficulty. I would encourage Mr C to provide full details of his financial 
situation to Lendable if he still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. And if 
Mr C would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free 
debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if he give
s us a call. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C and Im sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman