DRN-3302371
The complaint
Mr V and Ms B complain that they had problems when trying to arrange a new interest rate 
product on their existing mortgage. Mr V and Ms B say conflicting information was given by 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money about which products were available to them. 
And they were disappointed to find they werent eligible for interest rate products. 
Mr V and Ms B want a two-year rate that is 0.25% lower than the rate they took out to be 
retrospectively made available to their mortgage. They would also like compensation for 
having to use a broker, and compensation for the time, delay, inconvenience and distress 
this matter caused them.
What happened
Mr V and Ms B have a mortgage with Clydesdale. Around £450,000 of the mortgage is on 
interest only terms and around £98,000 is on a capital repayment basis. 
Mr V and Ms Bs interest rate product of 1.64% was coming to an end on 31 October 2020. 
They contacted their broker in May 2020 to explore options. Mr V has said that, for a number 
of reasons, they decided that a new product with Clydesdale was probably their best option. 
So, in early October, Mr V contacted Clydesdale to explore what new interest rate products 
were available to them.
 
At the beginning of October 2020, Clydesdale gave Mr V and Ms B illustrations for new 
mortgage rates. They were given illustrations for interest only mortgage products to apply to 
the interest only part of their mortgage, and capital and interest rates to apply to the capital 
repayment part. But, when Mr V and Ms B went to take out the rate theyd identified they 
wanted, they were then told that this wasnt a product available to them. Mr V says it wasnt 
explained why this was the case.  
Mr V and Ms B then asked their broker to help them get access to more competitive interest 
rates with Clydesdale. Even then they say their broker struggled to find out what rate was 
available. Mr V and Ms B ended up taking out an interest rate product of 1.74% for two years 
to expire on 31 December 2022. Mr V and Ms B still believe they should have been able to 
apply for the lower rate of 1.49% theyd seen advertised.
On 7 October 2020 Mr V and Ms B complained to Clydesdale. On 12 November 2020 
Clydesdale sent a final response to Mr V and Ms Bs complaint. It said that Mr V and Ms Bs 
mortgage hadnt been eligible for all the products as their mortgage wasnt entirely on a 
capital repayment basis. Clydesdale said it had upheld the service aspect of the complaint. 
At that point, Clydesdale had referred Mr V and Ms Bs complaint to the mortgage products 
team to see if any other interest rate products were available. But it said it couldnt improve 
on the product theyd been offered via the broker. Clydesdale said it offered pricing that 
varies across different channels which is why Mr V and Ms B got the best rate of 1.74% for 
an interest only mortgage via their broker. Clydesdale also said available rates are frequently 
changed upwards and downwards due to commercial decisions. 
Clydesdale apologised that its website hadnt been clearer with regards to eligibility criteria, 
and that Mr V had been given misleading information by its staff in early October. In 
recognition of its service shortcomings it offered £200 to settle the complaint.
Mr V and Ms B were unhappy with the response and referred their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought the offer that Clydesdale had 
made was fair and reasonable to put things right. 
Mr V replied to say he disagreed. In summary, Mr V replied to say:
- It remains his view that Clydesdale consistently and repeatedly misrepresented 
crucial information;
- He was shown mortgage products ostensibly available, only later- too late to 
remortgage elsewhere  to be told that in fact they were not, with no substantive 
explanation;
- no explanation was given as to why, given the mortgage is split into two separate 
accounts, different products couldnt be applied to each, and
- why, when they were able to engage either directly or through a broker, they were 
refused products simply because products were available through only one of those 
channels. 
Mr V and Ms B asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint again and reach a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find myself in broad agreement with our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at all the information both parties have provided to try to establish exactly what 
information Mr V and Ms B had available to them in the run up to their interest rate product 
expiring. I should start by saying I appreciate why Mr V and Ms B were keen to get the best 
available rate for their type of mortgage and the lengths they went to in order to achieve this. 
Mr V and Ms Bs mortgage has two parts. The smaller part of the mortgage is on a capital 
repayment basis, where the outstanding balance reduces each month as the capital is 
gradually repaid. The other larger part is interest only, and the same balance will be 
outstanding at the end of the loan term. Clydesdale has said to us that it treats a mortgage 
as being interest only if any part of the mortgage is on an interest only basis. Ive thought 
about whether thats fair. And overall, I think thats a reasonable position to take in the 
particular circumstances of this case where a much larger portion of the mortgage is interest 
only. 
I believe Mr V and Ms B when they say, having seen Clydesdales website and from what 
theyd been told by Clydesdale in early October, that they thought they could get one interest 
rate product for the capital repayment part of their mortgage, and a different rate for the 
interest only portion. But Ive also seen information shared by Clydesdale which clearly 
refers to rates being available for full C&I. Further notes on the information made available 
to brokers say of the 1.49% fixed rate and 1.64% discounted variable rate that both were for 
purely capital repayment loans. The information says This product may only be used where 
the whole of the mortgage is on a Capital and Interest repayment option. If any element of 
Interest Only is required, products which allow Interest Only must be selected for all parts of 
the mortgage.It seems that some of the confusion around what products were available to Mr V and Ms B 
came about because their mortgage could not be treated by Clydesdale as two mortgages 
with separate payment types that could have different interest rate products. Rather, one 
product would be needed to apply to the whole loan and this must be a rate that allows 
interest only borrowing. 
Clydesdale has said that its communication with Mr V and Ms B could have been clearer 
about this, including its website. And more specifically, an exchange on 6 October 2020 
gave illustrations for interest only rate options and capital repayment options seemingly 
quoting different rate products for the different parts of Mr V and Ms Bs mortgage. However, 
Clydesdale has confirmed that the requirement for Mr V and Ms B to take interest only 
products because part of their mortgage was on an interest only basis was made clear the 
following day. 
I can see why Mr V and Ms B are frustrated that it wasnt clearer to them before. I can 
understand that this led to a loss of expectation to identify a rate that was attractive to them 
and then find that they werent eligible. 
I have thought about whether Mr V and Ms B have suffered financial loss as a result of the 
confusion around what rates they were eligible for. Mr V and Ms B ended up taking out a 
two-year interest only rate of 1.74% through a broker. I accept this may not be as 
competitive as the rate of 1.49% that Clydesdale has said was available for exclusively 
capital repayment mortgages. But they ended up taking out a product that they were eligible 
for according to Clydesdales criteria. 
From the evidence available to me, this appears to have been the best product that a 
mortgage holder with Mr V and Ms Bs characteristics had at the time through that sales 
channel. Despite what they were briefly led to believe, the 1.49% rate was not actually 
available to them. And Im not persuaded that Mr V and Ms B suffered financial loss because 
of Clydesdales misleading information in early October.
Clydesdale processed the new rate application in time for it become effective when their 
previous product expired so the mortgage didnt revert to Standard Variable Rate at any 
point. And if Mr V and Ms B had decided that they didnt want this product, they were free to 
explore remortgaging to another lender having already had discussions with a broker who 
was aware of their situation.
I also dont think its unreasonable that Clydesdale has chosen to make different interest 
rates available to its customer base through different channels. This is a commercial 
decision made as part of its wider pricing strategy. And from my wider knowledge of the 
mortgage market, Im aware that other lenders have similar pricing structures where using 
different channels results in different rates being available.
As Ive said, I appreciate there was a loss of expectation experienced by Mr V and Ms B 
because Clydesdales communication could have been clearer. Clydesdale has already 
upheld this part of the complaint and has offered Mr V and Ms B £200 for the shortcomings 
in its customer service. I think thats fair and reasonable for the disappointment caused, 
taking into account the relatively short period of time that the misinformation was given 
before it was corrected, and the fact that an alternative rate that was available to Mr V and 
Ms B was arranged in a prompt fashion. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money has already made an offer to pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr V and 
Ms B to settle this complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman