DRN-3614408
The complaint
Ms M complains about her insurer, Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway). Her 
complaint is about how they dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy for the loss 
of a ring. 
References to Highway include their agents who handle claims.
This decision covers Ms Ms complaint about how Highway dealt with her claim for the loss 
of her ring. It doesnt cover Ms Ms taking out the policy through a comparison website (or 
the broker responsible for the comparison website), nor the role of the separate broker who 
subsequently took over responsibility for arranging the policy.
What happened
In March 2021 Ms M took out a home insurance policy with Highway through a comparison 
website. The policy included cover for contents. Ms M wanted to include, as a specified high 
value item, a ring that shed had made at her family jeweller (who made jewellery for other 
members of Ms Ms family). Ms M valued the ring at £4,500. Ms M checked the policy 
documents when they were issued, to ensure her ring was included at the value shed put on 
it and that it was covered on a new for old basis.
Unfortunately, Ms M lost the ring in December 2021 and, unable to find it, contacted 
Highway to lodge a claim. Highway asked Ms M to provide a replacement value for the ring, 
which she obtained from her family jewellers at £5,000. Highway said to Ms M the retail 
value of a replacement ring was £4,800. However, Highway also said theyd source a 
replacement ring from their jewellery supplier  not Ms Ms family jeweller. If Ms M wanted to 
have her family jeweller replace the ring, under the terms of the policy Highway would only 
pay the amount it would cost them to replace the ring at their jewellery supplier (£2,910). 
Unhappy at not being able to replace her ring through her family jeweller (unless shed 
accept the lower value Highway would pay if she chose that option) Ms M complained to 
Highway. Highway didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response, they referred to the 
policy terms and conditions on settlement of claims, including the options for Highway to 
replace the ring through their jewellery supplier or (if Ms M wanted her family jeweller to 
provide a replacement) to pay the cost to them of replacing the ring (as a cash settlement) at 
a value of £2,910. 
Ms M then complained to this service, unhappy at what had happened. She thought it unfair 
that shed specified the ring as a high value item under the policy but wouldnt receive the 
value shed put on the ring (if she had it replaced at her family jewellers). Because of this, 
she thought she would suffer financially if she sourced the replacement ring through her 
family jeweller. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Highway didnt need to take any 
action. She thought Highway had acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions 
when offering Ms M a value to replace the ring equivalent to what theyd have paid their 
jewellery supplier. This reflected the ability of Highway to make arrangements with chosen 
suppliers under which they could have items replaced at less than the retail cost. 
Ms M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Ms M has said about her wanting to source a replacement 
ring from the same family jeweller who made the original ring. I can understand why she 
would want to do that, given the relationship she and other members of her family have with 
the jeweller concerned. However, my role here is to decide whether Highway have acted 
fairly towards Ms M.
The main issue in Ms Ms complaint is whether (as Ms M maintains) Highway acted unfairly 
in offering a settlement of £2,910 (should she opt for a replacement ring from her family 
jeweller). Not the value of a replacement provided by her jeweller (£5,000) or the valuation 
she specified for the ring as a high value item when she took out the policy (£4,500). 
Highway maintain theyve acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions in 
offering to replace the ring through their jewellery supplier. Or, given Ms Ms preference to 
have her family jeweller provide a replacement, to offer a cash settlement based on what 
they would have paid their jewellery supplier to replace the ring.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, specifically those referred to by 
Highway in their final response. They refer to Claims settlement under section 3  Personal 
possessions which states:
1. We will at our option:
i) replace as new:
ii) pay the cost to us of replacing as new
iii) repair; or
iv) pay the cost to us to repair
As Ms Ms ring was lost, then the first two options are the ones that apply. These options are 
further clarified in the section How to make a claim where under Step 5: What happens next 
one of the points sets out:
We may offer repair or replacement through our approved suppliers. If you 
prefer to use your own tradesperson, or receive a cash settlement, for 
replacement goods instead, we will need to agree this with you beforehand. 
Any payment will generally not exceed the discounted amount we would have 
paid to our chosen supplier.
Taking these terms together, I think they make clear that in the circumstances of Ms Ms 
case, where she wanted to source a replacement ring from her own jeweller, the terms and 
conditions provide for Highway to pay the discounted amount they would have paid to their 
chosen jewellery supplier. Ive seen the evidence that the discounted cost of replacing the 
ring through their jewellery supplier would be £2,910.
 These terms are also common in household insurance policies, so Highway werent unusual 
in including them in the policys terms and conditions.
 
Ive also considered Ms Ms point that she hasnt received the value of the ring she provided 
when she took out the policy (£4,500). However, this value would be indicative of the gross 
valuation of the ring, when assessing Ms Ms claim, if Highway were to replace the ring (as 
new) through their own supplier. Looking at the evidence provided by Highway the gross 
valuation from their supplier is £4,850 (the cost of a bespoke replacement). While this sum is 
slightly less than the valuation provided by Ms Ms jeweller, it is higher than the specified 
value Ms M says she provided when taking out the policy. But as Ms M wanted a 
replacement from her own jeweller, then the second option above (pay the cost to us of 
replacing as new) would apply. That is, the amount taking account of the discount Highway 
would receive from their jewellery supplier (£2,910).
So, Ive concluded Highway acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, when offering the sum of £2,910 in settlement of Ms Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman