DRN-2945618
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about their interest only mortgage with Santander UK Plc. The term 
ended in November 2020. They complain that Santander wouldnt give them a new interest 
rate in the period between the end of the term and when they sold their property to repay the 
mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was taken out in 2006, over a 14 year term ending in November 
2020. Running up to the end of the term, they were on a tracker rate, paying 2.34%. When 
the mortgage term ended, the tracker rate also came to an end and Mr and Mrs C reverted 
to Santanders follow on rate, which was then 3.35%. 
Mr and Mrs Cs plan to repay their mortgage was to sell the property. While the property was 
being sold, they asked Santander for a new reduced interest rate. But Santander refused 
them a new rate. 
Mr and Mrs C complained about being refused a new rate. They also complained that 
Santander contacted them excessively about repaying the mortgage. Mr and Mrs C 
explained that the coronavirus pandemic had impacted their ability to sell their property. 
Santander offered to put Mr and Mrs C on a rate of 2.99%, and to backdate that to the expiry 
of their previous rate in November 2020. It also offered £50 compensation. Mr and Mrs C 
werent happy with that offer, as they wanted their previous rate of 2.34% to be extended 
until the property was sold. They asked us to consider their complaint.
Mr and Mrs C said that the regulator had told lenders to extend interest only mortgages that 
expired during the pandemic to October 2021, on the same terms as they were currently on. 
And they said that they had seen the following on Santanders website:
Important information for interest only mortgage customers
In line with the latest guidance from the FCA it may be possible to extend your 
interest only mortgage. 
If your mortgage has an interest rate that tracks the Bank of England base rate at a 
set figure well offer you a term extension for 12 months, but your interest rate and 
your mortgage terms and conditions will remain the same.
They said this applied to their situation  they had a base rate tracker of 2.34%, and 
therefore Santander should have continued this rate rather than put them on the follow on 
rate and then on 2.99%.
Our investigator thought Santanders offer was fair. So Mr and Mrs C asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C last varied their mortgage in November 2018. They took a new interest rate 
product, which consisted of a tracker rate, tracking 2.24% above Bank of England base rate, 
for two years and 0 months, reverting to Santanders follow on rate (3.25% above base rate) 
after two years. This means that under the terms of the interest rate product, the 2.24% 
tracker rate would be replaced by a 3.25% tracker rate from November 2020.
In November 2020, the regulator (the FCA) issued guidance to mortgage lenders that they 
should allow borrowers whose interest only mortgage terms had expired since the start of 
the covid-19 pandemic to have until 31 October 2021 to repay their mortgages. The 
guidance says
Interest may continue to be charged at the rate charged pre-maturity, at the rate 
charged at maturity, or lower, in accordance with the relevant contractual terms.
Im satisfied that this means that, under the regulators guidance, repayment of the capital of 
an expiring interest only mortgage could be deferred until 31 October 2021. And during the 
period of the deferral, interest would continue to be charged at the applicable rate in 
accordance with the terms of the mortgage agreement.
As Ive said above, in this case the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage agreement said that 
they would be charged 2.24% above base rate for two years from November 2018 and at 
3.25% above base rate thereafter.
Therefore, when the interest rate (and so the monthly payments) increased in November 
2020, Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was operating as it should and  as the guidance says  in 
accordance with the relevant contractual terms. The 3.25% tracker rate was the rate 
charged after November 2020, as per the mortgage offer from 2018.
I dont therefore think that Santander acted unfairly when it allowed Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage to change from the initial tracker rate to the follow on rate in November 2020. 
Thats what they agreed to when they took the interest rate product in 2018, its what the 
terms of the mortgage said would happen, and its what the FCAs guidance said should 
happen.
Once the initial tracker rate expired in November 2020, Mr and Mrs C were not eligible to 
take out a new interest rate product, since the term of their mortgage had expired, and they 
would have to repay the capital at the latest by the end of the deferral period in October 
2021.
However, Santander recognised that borrowers in the same position as Mr and Mrs C, 
unable to repay their capital immediately because of the impact of the pandemic, may also 
be struggling with their monthly payments too.
So it created a new fixed interest rate product, specifically for customers in this position, of 
2.99%. And it offered to put Mr and Mrs C on this rate, backdated to November 2020.
I think this was fair. The terms of their mortgage agreement and the terms of the regulators 
guidance meant that the rate Mr and Mrs C had to pay was the follow on rate of 3.25% 
above base rate. But rather than insisting on that, Santander agreed to offer a lower fixed rate of 2.99% pending the sale of their property. That would have helped Mr and Mrs C by 
reducing their monthly payments, if theyd accepted it.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C wanted to remain on their 2.24% tracker rate, and moving to the 
follow on rate increased their monthly payments significantly. But that was what was 
supposed to happen under the terms of their mortgage, and I think the offer of the 2.99% 
fixed rate to replace it was a reasonable step for Santander to take to assist them.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C were confused by what they saw on Santanders 
website; they assumed that your interest rate and your mortgage terms and conditions will 
remain the same meant that they would continue to pay the 2.24% margin tracker rate  
because your interest rate  will remain the same. 
In fact, what did happen was in line with what the website said; your interest rate and your 
mortgage terms and conditions will remain the same means that the contractual interest 
rate will continue to apply in line with the terms and conditions. And in Mr and Mrs Cs case 
that meant a tracker margin of 2.24% until November 2020 and a tracker margin of 3.25% 
thereafter. 
That was the interest rate under the mortgage terms and conditions, and while the rate may 
have changed, it did so in accordance with the contract  so the contractual rate continued 
to apply. I agree that Santander could have made this clearer. But I dont think the wording 
on the website means that Mr and Mrs C were entitled to have the 2.24% margin continue 
after November 2020, or that it overrides the terms of their mortgage agreement. Rather it 
means that the contractual rate will continue  which it did. And even if the website meant 
what Mr and Mrs C thought it did, that wouldnt override the terms and conditions of their 
mortgage.
Taking everything into account, therefore, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage 
operated as it should  in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage, and in line with 
the FCAs guidance. While I understand why Mr and Mrs C thought otherwise, I dont think it 
contradicts what was on Santanders website. And in all the circumstances, I think 
Santanders offer to backdate a fixed rate of 2.99% and offer £50 compensation was a fair 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Santander UK Plc has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, it should re-calculate Mr 
and Mrs Cs mortgage balance as it was when they redeemed it as if they had been on an 
interest rate of 2.99% between the end of their initial tracker rate in November 2020 and the 
date the mortgage was redeemed. It should refund the difference to Mr and Mrs C, adding 
simple annual interest of 8% running from date of redemption to date of refund. And it should 
pay them the £50 compensation it offered if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman