DRN-2016740
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to a payment he tried to make to 
his credit card account with a company I shall call X and the subsequent service he 
received.
What happened
Mr B tried to make a payment to X, but it didnt go through. He rang HSBC to discuss the 
matter and the agent he spoke to arranged for the payment to be made the following day. He 
discussed with her the reasons as to why his payment hadnt gone through and she said that 
she thought it was because of checks X would be doing at their end. 
Ultimately HSBC accepted that their agent had given incorrect advice to Mr B and that the 
problem actually lay with them. They explained the reason was to do with their own checking 
procedures and apologised, crediting Mr Bs account with £50 in compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator agreed that the agent had given 
incorrect advice, but even so, thought the amount of compensation HSBC paid was enough 
to put things right. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts are that HSBCs representative gave incorrect information to Mr B when 
she told him that the reason his payment had not gone through when he tried, or indeed 
when she tried, was because of the checks X was making.
Mr B has said that after speaking with the agent he was left in no doubt that the problem lay 
with X and not HSBC. I would agree with him on that. 
He also states in his letter to this service that he was left in no doubt that I would need to 
take it up with them. If Mr B is saying that is what the agent said to him, or even words to 
that effect, then I dont agree that she said that. I have listened to the call and nowhere does 
the agent say anything like that. It is clear that the agent did not tell Mr B to approach X and 
nor did she encourage or suggest that he should do so.
I can readily accept that Mr B wasted some of his time at the weekend on the telephone to 
HSBC, but I do not think it would be fair to attribute to HSBC the time he spent calling X. 
That step was taken of his own volition.
I have noted Mr Bs strong feelings that this error was not simply that of the agent, since she 
put Mr B on hold whilst she sought advice from her supervisor. That is true and I have taken 
that into account.
HSBC has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr B 
with £50 which it credited to his account. Mr B doesnt think that was enough to put matters 
right, so Ive given this some further thought as to what is fair and reasonable.  In my view 
HSBCs payment of £50 does reflect the inconvenience and upset to Mr B and I think that is 
reasonable.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid Mr B £50 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair 
and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman