DRN-4484226
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt provide a 
settlement for their storm damage claim because its contractors quoted repair costs below 
his policy excess.
Mr and Mrs L jointly held buildings and contents insurance, underwritten by Admiral. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr L, and any reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mr L had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Admiral. His policy excess was 
£300.
Mr L claimed under his policy when a storm damaged two glass balcony panels. Admiral 
said its cost to replace the glass using its own contractor was less than the policy excess, so 
thered be no claim to settle. Mr L got two private quotes for the replacement glass  one 
from Admirals contractor and one from another company. The quotes were broadly similar 
but significantly more than his policy excess.
Mr L complained. He understood that Admiral would receive discounts from its own 
contractor, but he didnt think the percentage discount was fair. Simply put, Mr L didnt 
believe the contractors quote of less than the policy excess to Admiral could reasonably be 
correct when it was more than four times the policy excess on a private basis. 
Admiral responded to Mr Ls complaint, explaining that its limit of liability was whatever it 
would cost it to do the work. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong by declining cover 
because its contractors quote was below the excess. Mr L brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think there was any evidence that Admiral had done anything wrong. 
She said Admiral handled the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L didnt agree. He set out example scenarios to explain why he thought Admirals reliance 
on its contractors quote was underhand and unfair. He asked for further consideration of the 
fairness of the discounts Admirals contractors offered.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint for the following reasons:
Admiral said there was no claim to settle because the repair cost was less than the 
policy excess. The evidence suggested that Admiral incurred an attendance charge 
of £90. If that was in addition to its repair quote, the claim amount wouldve been 
more than the excess. Therefore, Admiral wouldve had a claim to settle.
There would still have been a significant difference in the repair cost quoted to Mr L 
by the private contractors and that available to Admiral using its contractors 
discounted rate. However, given the difference, I think its more likely than not that Mr 
L wouldve accepted Admirals offer to complete the repairs. Therefore, the repair 
wouldve cost him £300 which was his policy excess.
In light of these two points, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Admiral to tell Mr L there 
was no claim to settle.
I asked Admiral to consider these points, explaining that I thought it should settle Mr Ls 
claim for his full costs, less his policy excess. I also thought £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused was reasonable.
Admiral agreed to the settlement.
However, Mr L didnt think the compensation was enough. He said it values [his] time at 
£100, and he said Admiral need to learn the lesson that it should pay claims first time. Mr 
L asked for £300, on the understanding that he would donate £200 to charity.
Ive looked at the timeline of events and I see that Admiral issued its response to Mr Ls 
claim within two weeks. It responded to Mr Ls complaint and directed him to this service 
within three weeks of his claim. 
While I dont think Admiral reached a fair decision about Mr Ls claim, I cant see that it 
caused any significant or avoidable delays in responding to him. 
Putting things right
My role is to decide whether Admiral treated Mr L fairly when he made his claim. Ive said I 
dont think it did, so my role now is to decide how Admiral should put matters right. The 
expectation is that Admiral should put Mr L in the position hed have been in had it handled 
his claim fairly. 
If Admiral had accepted the claim, Mr L wouldve paid his policy excess and Admiral would 
either have done the work or cash settled. The claim should, therefore, have only cost Mr L 
£300. So, to put this right, Admiral should reimburse Mr Ls repair cost, less the policy 
excess.
In respect of the £100 compensation, as Ive said, I havent identified any significant delays 
in the time it took Admiral to reach its decision. I understand that the time Mr L refers to is 
likely the overall time and inconvenience he experienced, and his compensation request 
includes a punitive element.
However, its not within my remit to make an award which punishes Admiral. 
I think £100 compensation is a reasonable sum, by way of apology, for Admirals failure to 
consider the broader circumstances when it valued his claim below the excess, and for the inconvenience Mr L experienced arranging and paying for the repairs himself. Based on the 
evidence available, I see no reason to increase the compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and I was minded to require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to: 
reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls full repair cost less the policy excess, and
pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs L and Admiral accepted my provisional decision. Admiral also asked for 
confirmation of the invoice amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness, I looked again at the evidence. Mr L provided two invoices showing 
payments totalling just under £1,220. Once Admiral deducts the policy excess, its payment 
to Mr L will be just under £920. The £100 compensation is in addition to that.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, it becomes my final decision and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ls complaint and Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls full repair cost less the policy excess, and
pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman