DRN-4156936
The complaint
In summary, Mr C complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK Plc, 
when discussing his ISA account with it. In particular, he believes that Barclays should have 
called him back when a call with it dropped. 
What happened
Mr C contacted Barclays to discuss his ISA account, but the call dropped. Mr C was 
unhappy that Barclays didnt call him back. He called Barclays shortly afterwards and spoke 
to a different representative who said she was based in a branch. A complaint was made to 
Barclays about the first call not being returned. Barclays then wrote to him to say that his 
complaint had been resolved.
However, Mr C remained dissatisfied with Barclays response. He thought it should pay him 
compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Cs concerns. He explained why he didnt think any compensation should be paid for 
the inconvenience Mr C had experienced in having to call Barclays back. 
Mr C didnt agree. He set out his concerns and suggested that the investigator listen to the 
calls that Mr C had with Barclays. The investigator obtained the calls from Barclays. He then 
wrote to Mr C again and explained to him why he remained of the opinion that no 
compensation was warranted. He also wrote to Barclays and asked if it was willing to make 
a payment as a gesture of goodwill to Mr C. It declined to do so. As no agreement could be 
reached the case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C has raised other concerns with Barclays regarding his ISA with it. But 
for the avoidance of any doubt, I want to make it clear that in this decision, I am only 
considering his concerns regarding the dropped call.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr C had with Barclays representatives including the call that 
dropped. Its not clear why the call dropped. Barclays has explained that the representative 
Mr C initially spoke to was calling from a call centre and couldnt make outgoing calls. Mr C 
thinks this is wrong as the second representative he spoke to did call him back. Barclays has 
explained that this was because the second representative was based in a branch and could 
make outgoing calls. And during the call I can hear the representative explaining to Mr C that 
she was based in a branch and where that branch was. So, it is possible that this might 
explain why that individual was able to call Mr C back and the first representative wasnt. 
However, I dont have sufficient evidence for me to make a finding that what Barclays told 
Mr C is wrong. And I dont believe that I need to, as I think the main issue, I need to 
consider, is the impact on Mr C, of him having to call Barclays again after the first call 
dropped.
Mr C has explained how having to call Barclays again impacted him. And Ive considered 
what hes said about having to wait for his call to be answered and then having to explain 
again what he had been discussing in the first call; particularly as no notes had been left on 
Barclays contact record by the first representative he spoke to. I do understand that this was 
all very frustrating for Mr C. And I agree with him that a note of the call should have been left 
by the first representative on the contact record.
Whilst the call dropping out and Mr C having to call Barclays again was inconvenient, it was 
an isolated incident, and he was able to speak to another Barclays representative very 
shortly afterwards. And that individual listened to Mr Cs concerns sympathetically and 
assisted him in an appropriate way. So, the inconvenience he suffered was for a short period 
of time. Ive not seen sufficient evidence that indicates Barclays was at fault for the call 
dropping, and I think its likely there would have had to be an element of recapping of what 
had been discussed, even if the representative from the first call had called Mr C back. 
Barclays apologised for what happened, and I think its right that it did so. However, 
contacting a financial services provider such as Barclays can sometimes be frustrating and 
annoying when mistakes happen, or unexpected problems occur. But that doesnt 
necessarily mean that compensation is appropriate every time something goes wrong. And 
considering the circumstances of what happened in Mr Cs situation, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think an award of compensation is appropriate. 
My final decision
My decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman