DRN-2118490
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down his claim for storm damage under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y contacted Aviva to make an insurance claim because water had leaked through his 
roof into a bedroom in his house during a storm. Aviva sent a surveyor to inspect the 
damage. Aviva turned down the claim because it said the damage to the roof was due to 
gradual deterioration.
Mr Y contacted Aviva about its decision. Aviva replied and maintained its decision to turn 
down the claim. So, Mr Y complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought that Aviva had acted reasonably in turning down the claim.
As Mr Y did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y says that the damage to his roof was caused by a storm. When we look at a storm 
claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
So, thinking about each of these questions in turn, for the first question, there doesnt seem 
to be any dispute that there was a storm around the time of the claim. Ive also looked at 
weather data for the relevant period and can see that there were storm conditions in the 
area.
Ive also thought about the type of damage that was being claimed for and am of the view 
that this is the type of damage that could be caused by a storm. So, the issue that remains is 
whether storm conditions were the main cause of this particular damage. 
The surveyors report said that the flashing had lifted in multiple places and had moss 
growing under it. So, when it rained, depending on the wind, water would get under the 
flashing. He said that that this was a maintenance issue.
Ive also looked at the photos taken by the surveyor and can see that some of the flashing 
has lifted on the roof. I can also see that there is moss growing, in multiple places, under 
parts of the flashing. So, on that basis, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decide that there 
was a pre-existing issue with the roof which resulted in the roof leaking, rather than the 
storm being the main cause of the damage.
Im aware that Mr Y is unhappy with the way the survey was carried out, as the surveyor 
didnt go up on the roof and instead took photos from ground level. However, that isnt an 
unusual way to carry out a survey. I also think that the photos are clear and illustrate the 
assessment made by the surveyor. 
I know that Mr Y disputes the surveyors findings. Aviva told Mr Y that he could submit his 
own expert report if he wanted to, but he didnt do so. I have considered Mr Ys views and 
his reasons for them, but I dont find them as persuasive as the view of the surveyor and it 
doesnt make me think that it is more likely that the damage was caused mainly by the 
storm, rather than general deterioration.
Mr Y has also said that he disagrees with the surveyors finding that a material other than 
lead flashing was used on the affected part of the roof. Mr Y highlighted where the lead 
flashing was in the surveyors photographs. Based on that, I think there was likely to be lead 
flashing that was covered over by another material. However, this still doesnt cause me to 
think that a storm was the main cause of the damage, as even if lead flashing was present, it 
doesnt provide an alternative explanation for how the water got into the property that 
showed it was as a result of an insured risk. Im aware that Mr Y also feels penalised 
because the raised membrane is on a neighbours roof. Although Im sure this is frustrating, I 
dont think that this means that Aviva should therefore pay the claim.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think Aviva acted reasonably in turning down the claim 
because although there was a storm around the time of the damage, I dont think the 
evidence shows that the storm was the main cause of the damage. I think it is more likely 
that the damage was as a result of gradual deterioration, which isnt covered by the policy. 
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman