DRN-2828634
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold Mr S payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2007. 
Mr S says it was mis-sold. He says this is because it was not made clear to me that I 
could purchase the PPI from another provider.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. RBS disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint came to me for a decision. I reached a different view of the 
case from the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision and asked RBS and Mr S  to 
send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider. This is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld because RBS had provided no 
evidence, from the time of the sale, to show it made clear the PPI was optional; nor 
that the cost was made clear to Mr S; nor that Mr S had to sign separately for the 
PPI, thereby highlighting it was a product that was separate from the mortgage.
Since the adjudicator gave that view, RBS has sent further evidence. This is of the 
forms used for a different customer, but for the same type of mortgage and PPI, at 
roughly the same time. It says this shows the same processes it would have 
followed with Mr S.
One document is a separate PPI application form with a section showing how much 
the PPI would cost, and setting out the choices between different levels of PPI; and 
there is a direct debit form for payment of the premiums to the insurer, which the 
customer needed to sign. There is also a section in the mortgage application form 
which asks the customer to say how they would pay for the mortgage if they became 
ill or were unable to work.
I have to decide what is most likely to have happened. This can be difficult when 
events were so many years ago, and documents are missing, and when I also cant 
be sure how well people would remember exactly what happened. But I currently 
think the evidence, now provided by RBS, does suggest its likely RBS presented 
the PPI to Mr S as a choice, and that it probably reasonably explained the cost.
Ive looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might have 
been mis- sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case. I will explain why:
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, as being particularly suited to his 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would have been for Mr S to decide whether it was suitable. 
But even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been 
an appropriate one, in his circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a 
mortgage can cause significant difficulties, and it seems Mr S was not entitled 
to employer sick pay, and didnt have other means to fall back on if he was off 
work due to illness or was made redundant. And even if he had had that, the 
PPI would still have left him in a more secure financial position for longer. Also, 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr S couldnt afford the PPI when he took 
it out. So, overall, it would have been potentially useful.
Its possible RBS didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr S would have been affected by any of these. He has 
mentioned a medical condition he suffered from, but this particular policy didnt 
exclude claims for that reason. Its also likely he was eligible for the policy, and 
hed be paying for it monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without further 
cost if his situation changed.
RBS said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr S didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman