DRN-2620793
The complaint
Company M is unhappy that HSBC Bank Plc wouldnt reimburse the money it lost due to an 
authorised push payment scam. It also says that HSBC failed to keep it informed of the 
progress of the investigation the bank carried out.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at 
length here. Briefly, as I understand it, a fraudster intercepted an email chain between M and 
its supplier by hacking into the suppliers email system. This resulted in a malicious 
misdirection of a payment amounting to about £10,000 in June 2019. It came to light when 
the genuine supplier contacted M for their payment few days later. M immediately contacted 
their bank HSBC who in turn contacted the recipients bank. Unfortunately when HSBC 
contacted the receiving bank only about £50 remained in the recipients account and that 
was later returned to M.
M complained to HSBC as mentioned above. HSBC did not uphold the complaint. M then 
brought their complaint to us. Our investigator concluded that complaint could not be upheld. 
They said, in summary, that M wasnt covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
code (CRM code) and that the payment wasnt particularly unusual or suspicious for the 
bank to have acted upon. The investigator also said that the bank did what it could do to 
recover the money once they were made aware of the fraud.
M did not agree. It reiterated that under the CRM code the bank with which the scam victim 
was a customer of should refund the sum regardless of whether that bank was at fault or the 
receiving bank was at fault. So HSBC ought to have refunded the money. In a subsequent 
call with the investigator, Ms representative also reiterated that there was poor 
communication about HSBC throughout.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear of what had happened to M. I can understand why it feels that as the 
innocent party, it shouldnt lose out. But having thought very carefully, I dont think I can fairly 
say HSBC should reimburse the sum the company unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
M when it made the transfer and when it reported the fraud; or whether it should have done 
more than it did.
It is not disputed that M authorised and instructed the bank to make the payment. Because 
of this, HSBC had an obligation to follow its instruction. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer - as Ive explained I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC shouldve been 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
I have reviewed Ms statements, for the 12 months leading up to the scam. In summary, 
there were many payments out of the account of a similar size or higher.  M had also made 
regular payments to the particular supplier prior to the scam. The size of these payments 
were often large and sometimes above the amount paid to the scammer.  And, the disputed 
payment didnt consume all of the funds in Ms account  which might have been an 
indicator it was at risk of fraud. The payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt 
have given HSBC much cause for concern. 
For these reasons, I dont think the payment M made would have stood out as being 
particularly unusual or suspicious compared to its normal account activity. So I dont think 
HSBC acted unreasonably by not making further enquiries about the payment before 
processing it.
M has referred us to HSBCs obligations under the CRM code. On some occasions, it is 
possible to consider whether a customer is covered under the CRM code  which came into 
effect from 28 May 2019. However, as explained by the investigator, M wasnt covered by 
the code. 
Section DS1(2)(e) of the code defines the Customer to whom the Code applies as: A payer as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs (Payment Services Regulations 2017), 
that is, a person who holds a payment account and initiates, or consents to the initiation of, a 
payment order from that payment account who is: 
(i) a Consumer, as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs, that is, an individual who, in 
contracts for payment services to which the PSRs apply, is acting for purposes other 
than a trade business or profession; 
(ii) a Micro-enterprise, as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs, that is, in summary, an 
enterprise which employs fewer than 10 persons and whose annual turnover and/or 
annual balance sheet total does not exceed EUR 2 million; and 
(iii) a Charity, as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs, that is, in summary, a charity 
with annual income of less than £1 million. 
In this case M is an enterprise but it is not a micro-enterprise as it employed more than 10 
persons at the relevant time. So unfortunately it isnt covered by the CRM code in this 
instance. 
I have also considered whether HSBC ought to have done more to recover the payment. I 
can see that HSBC immediately contacted the receiving bank on being advised of the scam. 
The receiving bank advised HSBC that it would need more time to investigate the matter and 
this was communicated to M. HSBC sent subsequent chaser to the receiving bank and when 
the recovered sum was received it paid it back to M. Given this I consider that HSBC 
couldnt have done more in order to recover the payment, though I agree with M that the 
bank should have kept it regularly updated. 
In summary, M was an unfortunate victim of a sophisticated scam. But, for the reasons 
outlined, I cant fairly say HSBC should have done more to prevent its loss. So, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to ask the bank to reimburse the payment made by M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman