DRN-2916057
The complaint
Mr F complains about a personal loan he had with the Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Halifax. He says that Halifax shouldnt have lent to him as the loan was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In January 2016, Mr F took out a loan with Halifax for £10,000 over a period of 60 months, 
with a monthly repayment of £278.60, the first repayment being due in February 2016. Mr F 
said he kept up the repayments for over a year but used other credit facilities to do this. He 
said around August 2017 he contacted Halifax as he was struggling to keep up with the 
repayments. Halifax agreed to freeze the interest on the account and an arranged payment 
of £100 per month was put in place for six months. This was continued for a further six 
months on review. 
But in November 2018, when Mr F said he wasnt able to revert back to the agreed loan 
repayment of £278.60, his account was defaulted, and he was referred to a debt collector. 
Mr F said he settled the loan in January 2019. But said Halifax shouldnt have agreed the 
loan in 2016, as they hadnt sufficiently checked his financial situation. He said although he 
was keeping up to date with his commitments at the time, he said he was using other credit 
to do this as he was on a low income. He complained to Halifax.
Halifax said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks that showed Mr F had 
enough disposable income each month to cover his monthly payments including the 
repayment of the new loan.
Mr F wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Halifaxs checks werent proportionate. And if Halifax had carried out 
further verification checks theyd have seen that the loan was unaffordable. 
Halifax didnt agree, they said that the loan was used to pay Mr Fs Halifax credit card and 
based on the income Mr F had stated on his application and his outgoings, the loan was 
affordable. Halifax has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Theres no set list for what are reasonable and proportionate checks. But CONC 5.2A.20R 
provides guidance as to the extent and scope of a creditworthiness assessment and the 
steps needed to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on 
sufficient information and proportionate to, the individual circumstances of each case.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. This means Halifax in 
lending to Mr F are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether he could 
afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so Halifax needed to think about
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr F. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they would
get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr F himself.
Checks should be proportionate having consideration for the specific circumstances of the 
loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend 
on several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
Halifax has shown that they used the information provided by Mr F in his application. And 
checked other sources including Mr Fs credit history. Mr F said his monthly income was 
£1,400. His outgoings were determined to be rent of £200, other credit commitments of £575 
and living costs of £365. This left a disposable income of £260. The new loan repayment 
was £278.60 and taking this into account would have meant the loan was unaffordable for 
Mr F. But Halifax has said that part of the lending was used to settle Mr Fs credit card that 
he had with them, they calculated the monthly repayment for this was £158, so this meant 
his other credit commitments would be reduced from £575 to £417, leaving Mr F with a 
disposable income of £418. As this would seem to show that the loan was affordable for Mr 
F, they agreed to the loan.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit thats being applied for. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different loan 
applications. So, Ive considered whether Halifax in lending to Mr F had been thorough in the 
checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to 
lend to him. Halifax based their decision on the application data supplied by Mr F, his credit history and 
other standard business sources. And Mr Fs credit history showed he was maintaining the 
repayments for his other credit commitments. But the loan Mr F applied for was for £10,000 
over a period of 60 months, with a total credit commitment of around £16,722. Given the 
amount of the loan and the time for repayment Id consider an affordability assessment 
would need to be more detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to 
be fair, reasonable and proportionate. So, I would have expected Halifax to have verified the 
details Mr F provided in his loan application. I can see our investigator asked Mr F to provide 
his bank statements for the period leading up to the loan being agreed.
From this information I can see Mr Fs income for the three months (October to December 
2015) prior to the loan being approved averaged £889.95 per month, which included a £60 
per month college payment, considerably lower than the £1,400 he said he earned. 
Ive also considered the outgoings declared by Mr F on his application, rent £200 and other 
outgoings £200. This again doesnt seem accurate from the information held on his credit file 
and from his bank statements. Mr F had two active credits cards, at the time he applied for 
the loan, the balance on each was £8,020 and £4,011. I can see he was repaying the cards 
with repayments of 2.5% of the outstanding balance, £200 and £100 respectively. I can also 
see there were existing loans, one that can be seen on Mr Fs credit file, repayable at £482 
per month over 60 months from November 2014, and the other a car loan repayment that 
can be seen on Mr Fs bank statements for around £185 per month. This amounts to credit 
commitments of around £967, far higher than the £200 declared by Mr F and the £575 
calculated by Halifax in their affordability assessment.
Taking rent and living costs into account Mr Fs outgoings exceed the income shown on 
Mr Fs bank statements. With the removal of the repayment of £100 for Mr Fs Halifax credit 
card, this still wouldnt have left Mr F with any disposable income. Even if Mr F had been 
earning £1,400 with his outgoings of £867 (Halifax credit card removed), rent £200 and living 
costs £200, he would have only been left with £133 disposable income, insufficient for the 
repayment of his new loan of £278.60.  
I think if Halifax had verified Mr Fs true financial situation in their affordability assessment, I 
dont think they would have agreed to lend to him as he wouldnt have passed their 
affordability worthiness checks.
So, I dont think Halifax focussed on Mr F as a borrower and his specific circumstances. And 
I think they acted irresponsibly in providing Mr F a loan . I dont think they carried out 
sufficient checks to determine whether Mr F could sustain the repayments.
 
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt
straightforward. And I think Mr F should take some responsibility for providing inaccurate 
information in support of his loan application. He has also had the loan in question and used 
the funds. I can see Mr F settled his account in January 2019. In these circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been done. So, I ask Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Fs loan account from when it was 
opened;
treat any payments that Mr F has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if this
           results in Mr F having paid more than what he was initially lent, then any extra should
           be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr F plus 8% simple interest on this
amount from date of payment to date of settlement; andremove any adverse information on Mr Fs credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to take off tax 
from this interest. Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax must give Mr F a certificate 
showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
I uphold this decision. And ask Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to put things right for 
Mr F as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman