DRN-2194097
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc refused to cover the costs to repair a faulty car.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr G acquired a second-hand car costing £10,190 funded by a fixed loan 
agreement. The car was some three years old and had covered 34,829 miles.
He says that in late August 2019 he noticed a light grinding noise intermittently. He 
contacted the dealer as he believed the car was still in warranty, but he was told that this 
only covered the first three months. He was due a service and hoped this might deal with the 
issue but two weeks later the car wouldnt go into reverse gear. He took it to a local garage 
and was told he needed a new gearbox. The car was repaired in early March 2020 at a cost 
of £1,416.
He complained to Hitachi which advised him to obtain an independent report. It told this 
service that although the dealer had ceased trading it had confirmed it had not heard from 
Mr G after the sale.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
She noted Mr G had been unable to drive the car from October 2019, some 10 months after 
the point of sale and after it had covered some 40,000 miles. She said that she had to 
consider the durability of the car and if parts fail prematurely, this might indicate there was 
already a problem when the car was supplied.
Mr G had only covered some 5,000 miles before first encountering issues with the gearbox 
and our investigator didnt believe this was a significant amount for the 10 months he had the 
car.
After taking into account the price, age and mileage of the car, she believed that, on balance 
of probabilities, the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. The car had 
been satisfactorily repaired and she considered Hitachi should cover the cost of the repair. 
She also thought it should refund three months payments when the car was out of action.
Hitachi didnt agree and said the burden was on Mr G to prove it had been faulty at the point 
of sale. It added that the car had passed its MOT in January 2020. It noted he had been able 
to drive the car to the garage to have it tested. Mr G provided a copy of the diagnostic 
carried out on 3 December which showed that neither first nor reverse gears could be 
engaged. 
Mr G told this service that he had contacted the dealer but was told the car was out of 
warranty. Our investigator explained that the MOT doesnt cover the gearbox. 
Hitachi said that the diagnostic report could not be taken as independent as the garage 
stood to gain from the repairs and it didnt establish the fault was present at the point of sale. 
It noted the report didnt carry any registration number on it.  It said that as the car had been 
repaired it was now impossible to determine the cause of the fault. It repeated its concern 
that the car passed its MOT in January 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the fixed loan agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Hitachi is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
While I have some sympathy with the arguments put forward by Hitachi, I consider I should 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I appreciate that we do not have an independent report into the fault and its likely cause, but 
I do believe we have sufficient circumstantial evidence to conclude the car had an inherent 
fault. It was only some three years old when it was sold and less than a year later a problem 
with the gearbox developed. Mr G has made little use of the car and while I acknowledge 
that driving style can contribute to gearbox issues, I think it unlikely that in his relatively short 
period of use that he can be held responsible for the fault. 
I dont believe it is disputed that there was a fault which Mr G had repaired. The dealer has 
ceased to trade and Hitachi says it has been told that Mr G made no contact after the sale. 
Mr G says otherwise. He has told this service he did contact the dealer but was told that as 
the car was out of warranty it had no responsibility for the fault. Hitachi asked for an 
independent report, but Mr G has explained he already had a diagnostic and he had limited 
funds to pay for one. 
He has explained the repair took several months due to parts being sourced and was 
completed in March 2020. The MOT was due and so he had this done while the car was 
waiting to be repaired. The MOT does not cover the gearbox and so the car having passed 
the test doesnt mean that the gearbox was working.
I consider the key issue to be one of durability. A gearbox should last for at least 100,000 
miles and usually much longer than that. So this failure was exceptional. Mr G made little use of the car before the fault developed and on the balance of probabilities, I think it 
reasonable to conclude there was either some inherent fault or the previous owner had 
driven it inappropriately or it had been poorly maintained. 
The only alternative explanation is that Mr Gs driving style caused the fault, but as I have 
said the relatively low mileage covered by him does not support that conclusion. This leads 
me to consider that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Putting things right
 Hitachi should cover the cost of the repair and refund three months payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to: 
Refund the repair cost of £1,416.
Refund three months monthly payment as Mr G didnt have use of the car and no 
alternative was provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman