DRN-2317555
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) treated him when he visited one 
of its branches. Mr D says he queued for around 20 minutes to enter the branch and was 
sternly asked to leave and queue again when the member of staff he saw wasnt able to 
complete his transaction.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them all again
here. Instead I will give a summary, and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr D visited an HSBC branch in August 2020 to make a transfer in Euros. He waited outside 
the branch for around 20 minutes, as due to the current pandemic HSBC is limiting the 
number of customers in its branches at any time.
When Mr D entered the branch he approached a cashier to complete his transaction. The 
casher explained they didnt know how to complete the transaction that Mr D had asked, so 
requested he re-join the queue outside and see a different member of staff when his turn 
came around again. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this, so he asked to speak to the manager. He was told the deputy 
manager would speak to him. Mr D approached a seating area in the branch to wait, as hes 
explained that due to his age and disability he was tired from the initial 20 minute wait to 
enter the branch. 
Mr D has explained that when the deputy manager approached him, she sternly ordered him 
to leave the branch. HSBC says that this is because the number of customers in the branch 
at that time had exceeded the limit. Mr D felt distressed by this and has explained that 
several other members also witnessed the event. He says that a different member of staff, 
who had also witnessed what happened, eventually helped him to complete the transaction.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Whilst it apologised for the distress, it explained that it 
had approached the member of staff from the branch and they didnt recall there being any 
issues during the visit. Mr D maintained that the treatment by the deputy branch manager 
was unsatisfactory and requested a personal apology from her. HSBC declined Mr Ds 
request. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint as he wasnt happy with how HSBC had dealt 
with it. She concluded that whilst there was clearly a reason Mr D had made the complaint, 
there was no further evidence available to back up either what HSBC or Mr D had said. She 
noted that HSBCs complaint handler had apologised on behalf of the deputy manager of the 
HSBC branch, and she felt that was fair. So she didnt ask HSBC to provide an apology from 
the deputy branch manage herself. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He reiterated that he is telling the truth, and 
he expressed his concern that HSBC hasnt been able to provide its CCTV recordings from 
the branch on that day.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Id firstly like to explain that accept that the service given by the deputy branch 
manager of HSBC fell below what Mr D  and most likely HSBC  would expect. I 
can certainly understand that this was humiliating and distressing for Mr D. Its 
unclear why HSBC allowed the number of customers in the branch to exceed its 
capacity before Mr D had left, so Im unsure why the situation occurred. But HSBC 
says that it has raised this with the branch management team, and I think thats a 
proportionate course of action to take in the circumstances.  
Whilst its unfortunate that HSBC hasnt been able to provide CCTV footage of the 
event, Im not too surprised by this. From my experience of CCTV systems, 
recordings are usually only held for 30 days. That said, I do think that HSBC could 
and should have reviewed the footage as part of its initial complaint investigation, 
which was within 30 days of the event happening. With this is mind, and having 
reviewed HSBCs response to the complaint, I can certainly understand why Mr D 
didnt feel as though HSBC had investigated it thoroughly. But I do note that the 
complaint handler apologised for what happened on behalf of the bank, and the 
branch staff. HSBC has also explained that it has spoken to the staff members in the 
branch at the time, who dont recall there being an issue. I know Mr D says that 
HSBCs staff are most likely unwilling to speak out against their colleague, which I 
accept may be the case. But there wouldnt be any value in me asking for the same 
information again  because at best this is likely to result in HSBCs word against Mr 
Ds. And in any case, I accept that what Mr D has said happened, did happen.
Im not going to tell HSBC to compel the deputy branch manager to send a 
personalised apology to Mr D, although I know thats what hed like to resolve things. 
As Ive explained, HSBC has already apologised to Mr D, and I think thats a fair way 
for HSBC to have dealt with the complaint. Its not uncommon for banks to employ 
complaint handlers as the link between customers and branch staff, and on this 
occasion, I think the complaint handlers apology goes far enough to address the 
issue at hand. And Im also mindful that its rarely effective to compel someone to 
apologise for something  as the result is likely to be insincere or disingenuous.
I can certainly understand why Mr D felt distressed by the situation that happened in HSBCs 
branch and I would like to reassure him that I dont disbelieve what hes said. And I do think 
HSBC couldve been more empathetic towards Mr Ds personal circumstances. But having 
considered everything, Im not going to tell HSBC to do anything more to put things right, as I 
believe the apology it has already issued is enough. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman