DRN-3972962
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice True Potential Wealth Management LLP gave to him to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes, paying 
compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels 
are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits for deferred 
pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In September 2017 the BSPS provided Mr B with an updated summary of the transfer value 
of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £76,496.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr B approached True Potential for pension advice. It conducted a fact-find with him. 
Amongst other things it recorded that he was 30 years old and married to Mrs B who was 32. 
They had no dependents. They were both working. They owned their own home subject to a 
mortgage which was due to be repaid in 26 years. Otherwise they were debt free. Mr B had 
recently started paying into his employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. 
Together with his employer they were contributing 16% of his salary.
After obtaining a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, in November 2017 True Potential 
gave Mr B its suitability report setting out its analysis and recommendations. It 
recommended that Mr B should transfer his DB funds to a named SIPP. In short it said that 
doing so would:
Provide varying levels of income at different stages of retirement.
Provide sufficient death benefits to his wife.
Mr B accepted True Potentials recommendation and transferred his DB scheme funds to the 
named SIPP.
Mr B complained to True Potential, via the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2022, that the 
advice to transfer wasnt suitable for him. True Potential didnt uphold his complaint. In brief 
it said that transferring allowed him to achieve his objectives, including bringing the pension 
under his control. 
Mr B asked us to consider his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into it. Amongst 
other things he thought the advice was unsuitable as  by transferring  Mr B wasnt likely to 
improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by remaining in the scheme. Also the 
Investigator didnt think the different death benefits available from the SIPP justified the likely 
lower benefits Mr B would receive during retirement. Our Investigator recommended that 
True Potential calculate if Mr B has suffered a loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if 
so pay compensation, including £300 to address Mr Bs distress and inconvenience.
True Potential didnt agree with our Investigators complaint assessment and asked for the 
case to be referred for an Ombudsmans review.
While the complaint was waiting for an Ombudsmans review True Potential asked Mr B to 
complete a letter of authority so it could gather the necessary information to enable it to 
calculate a loss assessment. Mr B told us he provided that authority but True Potential hasn't 
done the loss calculation. 
As the matter remains unresolved it's been passed to me to make a final determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potential's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, True 
Potential should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate it was in Mr Bs best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Reasons for my decision
After consulting its TVAS True Potential said that the growth rates required (the critical 
yields) to match the benefits from the DB scheme were achievable. It also said that if Mr B 
transferred to a SIPP and accessed equivalent benefits to those provided by the DB scheme 
then the funds would last beyond his life expectancy. But I don't find the figures in True 
Potentials TVAS reliable. 
On True Potentials file is a copy of Mr Bs "time to choose" letter, although some of the 
pages are missing. But the file version does include Mr Bs entitlement from the BSPS2, as 
calculated by the scheme, at ages 60 and 65, both for a full pension and a reduced pension 
together with a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum, which are as follows:
Age 60 65
Full pension £6,627.00 £7,737.70
Reduced pension £4,768.09 £5,345.83
TFC £31,787.29 £35,638.87
However, the figures shown in True Potentials TVAS are all below those sums as shown in 
the table below:
Age 60 65
Full pension £4,757 £7,098
Reduced pension £3,521 £4,903
TFC £23,478 £32,692
Given that the figures in the "time to choose" letter were given by the scheme itself, then I 
find that those are more reliable than the figures True Potential calculated in its TVAS. Also 
considering that True Potential had the "time to choose" letter on file its puzzling why it didnt 
use the figures that contained rather than recalculating those itself. But, in any event, Im 
struggling to understand how True Potential arrived at its figures. And, if the amounts its 
quoted for Mr Bs pension entitlements are incorrect then all of its other figures  including 
critical yields and how long Mr Bs fund would last for  would also be incorrect. So its 
difficult to have confidence in the numbers that True Potential produced in support of its 
recommendation for Mr B to transfer.
Further, the "time to choose" letter also sets out whats known as early retirement factors. 
Those are the amounts that a pension will be reduced by for taking benefits earlier than the 
schemes normal retirement age. The reduction is a recognition that, by taking a pension 
earlier, its likely that it will have to last longer and so cost the scheme more. The early retirement factor for Mr B taking his benefits at age 60 would be a reduction of 15%1. So 
assuming that True Potentials statement that Mr Bs full yearly entitlement from the BSPS2 
at age 65 is £7,098, that would mean Mr B would be entitled to a pension of £6,033 at age 
60. But True Potential has given a figure of £4,757 at age 60. That is a reduction of some 
33%. I dont know how it arrived at that sum. 
Similarly, True Potential said that if Mr Bs pension investments made a year-on-year return 
of 5%  something that would not be impossible, although it might be a tall order  then by 
age 60 his fund could be worth £221,000. It said that amount would last him well beyond his 
life expectancy by taking benefits (as shown in its TVAS) equivalent to those from the DB 
scheme. True Potential hasn't shown how its arrived at that figure but, as far as I can tell, it 
doesn't allow for charges associated with the SIPP or for inflation. 
In contrast there is an illustration on file produced by the SIPP administrators which shows 
what Mr Bs pension could be worth at age 60 once invested in the SIPP and assuming 
investment growth of 5% a year. That shows that adviser and SIPP product charges would 
reduce the growth by 1.37% a year. The illustration also makes an adjustment for inflation 
assumed to be 2.5% a year. At age 60 the illustration calculates that rather than being worth 
£212,000, Mr Bs fund would be worth around £103,000. That is less than half the figure 
True Potential used in its suitability report. So I'm not persuaded that it displayed Mr Bs 
likely benefits from a SIPP in a fair and balanced way in its suitability report.
However, even if I accept that True Potentials figures are all accurate, I dont think that 
makes its recommendation to transfer reasonable. True Potential said the critical yields to 
match the BSPS2 benefits lie somewhere between 4.5%  for Mr B taking TFC and a 
reduced pension at age 60  and 5.13% for Mr B taking a full pension at age 65. A 
reasonable method of looking at likely growth rate is a measure called the discount rate, 
which we used to publish on our website. For Mr B the appropriate discount rate was 4.7% 
whether he retired at age 60 or 65. So the discount rate was broadly comparable to the 
critical yields, particularly if he took TFC and a reduced pension from age 60. But there 
would be little point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve a similar level of benefits outside the scheme. Thats because, in 
order for the potential to match or improve slightly on the DB scheme benefits, he would 
need to put those funds at risk. And, if there was an extended period of poor performance or 
his investments suffered losses that could result in him being significantly worse off in 
retirement. For that reason alone I dont think that a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests.
True Potential also said that by transferring Mr B had the opportunity to retire early and 
access his funds flexibly. Its true to say he couldnt have had the same level of flexible 
access to his DB funds as he could from a SIPP. While he could have chosen to take those 
early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as 
drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the SIPP would allow him to draw 
down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an attractive 
prospect for him, Im not persuaded that Mr B had any concrete need to vary his income 
throughout retirement. But, even if he believed he did, there was no need for him to give up 
the safeguarded benefits from the DB scheme in order to have some flexible access to 
retirement funds. 
True Potential noted that Mr B and his employer had begun contributing to a recently set up 
DC pension scheme. Mr B and his employer were together contributing around 16% of 
Mr Bs salary to that pension. He could have anticipated continuing to contribute to that 
1 This is shown as a factor of 0.85 in the "time to choose" letter. In other words Mr B would receive 
£0.85 of pension at age 60 for each £1 he was entitled to at age 65. It is equivalent to a reduction of 
15%. pension (or a similar one if he were to change jobs in the future) for the remainder of his 
working life. And given he was still only 30 years old that could have been for another 37 
years or so until his state pension age. But True Potential noted that Mr Bs preferred 
retirement age was 60. It said that, without allowing for Mr Bs salary  and therefore his 
pension contributions  increasing or any investment growth, by the time he reached 60 then 
the fund could be worth £152,000.
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mr B with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mr B could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr B 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension would have likely 
given him flexible access to pension funds if that was what he needed.
In addition, if True Potential had advised Mr B to join the BSPS2 and he had later decided he 
needed greater flexibility than the scheme provided, then he could have chosen to transfer 
from that scheme nearer to his retirement age. And I think this was something that he could 
have explored closer to his intended retirement age; it wasnt a decision he needed to make 
straightaway. So I dont think a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests.
True Potential also said transferring would allow Mr B to leave any residual pension funds to 
his family on his death. But True Potentials priority should have been to advise Mr B about 
what was best for his retirement, not what was the best vehicle to leave a legacy on his 
death. And the spouses pension the DB scheme would pay could have been valuable to his 
wife in the event of his death. That didnt rely on how much was left in Mr Bs fund or 
investment performance, whereas any death benefits from his SIPP did. And there may not 
have been a large sum left in the SIPP if Mr B lived a long life, he took large sums from it in 
early retirement, or if his investments suffered a prolonged period of poor performance. In 
any event True Potential should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a SIPP over his security in retirement.
True Potential added that transferring allowed Mr B to take control of his pension. But I think 
True Potential has overstated Mr Bs desire for control. He had no experience of investing in 
the financial markets. And I can't see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think this was a genuine objective for 
Mr B  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr B may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension 
and the prospect of it entering the PPF. But it was True Potentials role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr B with guaranteed income and the 
option of early retirement. He was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any 
fears he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Bs best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a SIPP. I also havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr B wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. So, 
Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice True Potential gave to Mr B was unsuitable 
for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for True Potential to put Mr B, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if True Potential had given him suitable advice. 
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
True Potential should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of 
what True Potential based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr B 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, True Potential should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts True Potentials offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, True Potential may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Also, as I think that learning that he might have unnecessarily put his pension funds at risk 
was a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr B, I think True Potential should also pay 
him £300 to address that.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman