DRN-2813113
The complaint
Mr F complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc blocked his credit card while he was abroad.
What happened
Mr F went on a cruise and took his Sainsburys credit card with him. During the cruise, Mr F 
called Sainsburys to discuss some transactions on his account. At the start of the call, Mr F 
was asked to go through some security questions. One of these questions was characters to 
a password hed set. Mr F couldnt remember his password and got the question wrong.
Because of this, Sainsburys blocked his account, and sent a secure code out to him in the 
post.
Mr F complained to Sainsburys about this. He says Sainsburys had no right to block his 
card  and that it should have told him that it had done so. He said that had he known his 
card was going to be blocked following failed security, he would have waited until he had 
returned from the cruise before calling. He said that due to the card being blocked he was 
left with no access to funds. 
Sainsburys responded to Mr Fs complaint to say it hadnt done anything wrong. It said that 
Mr F had failed security during the phone call and so it is its normal process to block the card 
and send a secure code to the home address registered on the account. But it offered Mr F 
£50 compensation for the length of time it had taken to respond to his complaint. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and so he referred the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong. He thought that 
Sainsburys had followed its security process and so he couldnt fairly say that Sainsburys 
acted unreasonably by blocking the card.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigator. He said that Sainsburys were aware during the call 
that he had no access to his security information, and so it should have told him that it 
wouldnt be able to divulge information about the account. He says that he wouldnt have 
continued with the call if hed been made aware his card might be blocked as a result of 
failed security. 
Because Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. And Ill explain why in more detail below. 
When Mr F called Sainsburys in September 2019, he called to ask about some transactions 
that he thought might have gone through multiple times. Mr F doesnt think that he ought to 
have needed to go through security for his question to be answered. Sainsburys are 
required to carry out security on any calls where theyve been asked specific information 
about an account. Because Mr F was asking about specific transactions on his account, I 
dont think it was unreasonable of Sainsburys to ask for information to satisfy itself it was 
speaking to the right person.
Ive listened to the call Mr F had with Sainsburys in September 2019. Mr F says that during 
this call he told Sainsburys that he didnt have his security information to hand  and so the 
representative ought to have made him aware that he couldnt discuss the account without 
passing security. Having listened to the call I cant agree with Mr Fs account of what 
happened. Mr F didnt tell the representative that he didnt have his security information. And 
he continued to give the representative what he thought were the answers to the questions 
that hed been asked, which subsequently werent correct  and security was failed at this 
point.
Mr F has said that Sainsburys could and should have asked him different security questions. 
Ultimately, its up to Sainsburys what questions they ask during the security process. I dont 
think the questions Sainsburys asked Mr F were unreasonable  the security process is 
designed to ask questions that only the account holder should know  for example personal 
information and characters to a password - so the answers ought to have been known to Mr 
F. 
Mr F says he hadnt ever called Sainsburys before and so he didnt have a password to 
access the account. Sainsburys have provided me with a copy of a call Mr F had with it in 
August 2019. On this call, Mr F set up a password and he was told that he would need to 
use this for any future calls. So I think Mr F ought to have been aware that hed need a 
passcode for anytime he called Sainsburys. If, as Mr F says, he didnt have the security 
details to hand, then it should have been Mr Fs decision not to continue to answer the 
questions until he had the information to hand. 
Sainsburys security measures are designed to protect itself and its customers from fraud, 
and so I think it reasonable that Sainsburys ask questions to satisfy itself it is speaking to 
the account holder. Because Mr F couldnt answer the questions correctly, I dont find it 
unreasonable of it to block Mr Fs account until it could establish that Mr F was in fact the 
account holder. This is also included in the terms and conditions of Mr Fs account where it 
says: 
We may at any time suspend, restrict or cancel your or an additional cardholders use of a 
card, refuse to issue or replace a card or stop the use of the telephone or online service for 
reasons relating to any of the following:
11.2.1 - were concerned about the security of your account or any cards we have issued to 
you or an additional cardholder;
Ive looked at Sainsburys telephone banking procedure  this says that when security is 
failed during the call, it would send out a secure code to the address it holds for the 
customer. While I understand that sending out a secure code in the post wasnt convenient 
for Mr F because he was away, Sainsburys followed its own procedure here and so I cant 
fairly say it has done anything wrong.
Mr F has also raised concerns that he wasnt told the card would be blocked following failed 
security. He said that this put him in a very difficult position because it was the only card hed 
taken with him on his trip. I appreciate that Sainsburys blocking the card while he was away 
must have been very inconvenient for him. But I dont find it unreasonable that it didnt tell 
him it was going to do this. Mr F not being able to pass security meant that Sainsburys couldnt be certain that it was speaking to the right person about the account. And so, it took 
action to protect the integrity of the account. Sainsburys didnt have any obligation to tell Mr 
F that it would block the account.
Ultimately, I dont think I can hold Sainsburys responsible for Mr F failing the security on the 
account. I havent seen anything that makes me think Sainsburys acted unfairly or outside of 
its normal process when it blocked the account and the card. While I understand that these 
actions had difficult consequences for Mr F  I cant fairly say that this was as a result of 
something Sainsburys did wrong.
Sainsburys offered Mr F £50 for the delays to it looking into his complaint. But Mr F says he 
didnt receive the cheque with the final response letter. If Mr F still hasnt received this, then 
he should contact Sainsburys direct to arrange the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman