DRN-3645190
The complaint
Miss G complains about H.P.A.S Limited, trading as Safestyle (U.K) (HPAS) and the data 
breach that saw some of her personal information sent to another customer in error.
What happened
In February 2022, Miss G was contacted by another customer of HPAS unknown to her, who 
made her aware that they had received correspondence from HPAS that included her 
personal information. Miss G was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss G was unhappy that her information had been shared with another customer in error. 
She explained this had caused her significant stress and anxiety, made worse by 
anonymous sales calls she then received which she felt were related to the breach. So, Miss 
G wanted to be compensated for the day of work she felt she needed to take, confirmation 
her details had been removed from HPAS system as well as compensation for the upset 
shed been caused.
HPAS looked into the complaint and upheld it. They accepted there had been a data breach, 
and that some of Miss Gs information had been sent to another customer in error. But they 
didnt think this was a significant breach, due to the nature of the information that was 
shared. So, HPAS apologised for this and explained they had taken steps internally to 
understand how the breach occurred and to ensure a similar breach didnt happen again, 
which they felt fell in line with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance. So, 
they didnt offer to do anything more. Miss G remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think the apology 
provided by HPAS was enough to recognise the worry and upset the data breach caused 
Miss G, especially when she was contacted by another customer unknown to her. So, they 
thought HPAS should pay Miss G £200 to compensate her for this upset, as well as remove 
her details from their system.
HPAS agreed with this recommendation and issued a cheque for this amount, whilst also 
confirming Miss Gs data had been removed. But Miss G didnt agree. She thought the £200 
was only enough to cover the financial loss she suffered when needing to take a day off 
work due to the stress she was caused. 
She explained shed spoken to a solicitor who had suggested she should be compensated 
around £2,000, due to her dealing with an ongoing harassment court case where she was 
the victim at this time. 
Our investigator recognised this, but thought the £200 payment was a fair one, that fell in 
line with our services approach. So, they didnt think this payment should be increased. Miss 
G remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint, and awarding Miss G the same amount 
already recommended, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Miss G has raised concerns about the service 
provided by HPAS, regarding the delays in a surveyor attending her property and the 
problems she had arranging the installation, as well as the sales techniques used at the 
point of sale. These are issues that would need to be raised with FENSA, who regulate 
installers of windows and doors. This is because HPAS are regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) purely in their role as a credit broker only. So, our service is only 
able to consider the service HPAS provided when arranging finance to cover the costs of the 
product being installed.
While HPAS didnt arrange finance in this case, I can see Miss G did pay a deposit. So, Im 
satisfied Miss G was a customer of HPAS from a finance point of view. And to arrange this 
finance, Miss G wouldve need to provide HPAS with certain information. So, I think HPAS 
had a duty to ensure this data was protected, in line with the ICOs guidelines.
But Im also aware that part of Miss Gs complaint about this breach relates to her belief that 
HPAS passed her information onto another company, who then cold-called her touting for 
business. As this complaint relates to Miss Gs belief that HPAS sold, or passed on, her 
information to another company willingly, this aspect of the complaint would fall under the 
remit of the ICO, and not ourselves to investigate. 
What I have been able to consider is Miss Gs complaint about the data breach which saw 
her personal information sent in error to another customer of HPAS. And its not in dispute 
that this error occurred with HPAS already issuing an apology and taken steps to avoid 
similar situations in the future. Ive seen the email sent in error, which contains Miss Gs full 
name, mobile number, home address and e-mail address. This is information I would expect 
HPAS to ensure is kept protected and by sending this to another customer, I think HPAS 
have acted both unfairly and unreasonably. As I think HPAS have made an error here, Ive 
then thought about what I think they should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When considering what I think HPAs should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Miss G back in the position she wouldve been, had HPAS acted 
fairly in the first instance.
Had HPAS acted fairly, then Miss Gs information wouldnt have been sent to another 
customer. And this wouldve prevented Miss G from receiving several calls from a person 
unknown to her, which I dont dispute wouldve been stressful and worrying. I also recognise 
Miss G would then question the security of all the data HPAS held on her behalf, which 
included her bank details and important information. Had HPAS not made the breach in the 
first instance, I dont think Miss G wouldve experienced this worry and anxiety. So, I think 
Miss G should be compensated for this. 
But I dont think HPAS should reimburse Miss G for a days work she says she missed due to the upset she felt. While I dont dispute the emotional impact Miss G suffered, I think it 
was Miss Gs own decision to take a day off work. Thats not to say I dont understand why 
she did, but I dont think HPAS actions meant Miss G had no way of working on the day she 
says she missed. So, I havent considered this when thinking about what HPAS should do to 
put things right.
I also recognise Miss G has sought independent legal advice, and she believes she should 
be compensated up to £2,000 for the upset shes been caused, due to her personal 
circumstances and the harassment case she had ongoing at the time. While Ive seen no 
evidence of this, I have no reason to dispute Miss Gs testimony. So, I accept there was an 
ongoing court case at the time, in which Miss G was a victim. And I can appreciate how 
receiving calls from an unknown number wouldve caused Miss G more anxiety than others, 
due to the allegations contained within the court case.
But crucially, Miss G doesnt dispute she spoke to the customer who received her 
information. So, Miss G wouldve been reasonably aware that the calls she received werent 
from the person accused in her court case. And Ive seen e-mails between Miss G and the 
customer who received her information, which show a very amicable and reasonable 
exchange. So, while I appreciate the immediate anxiety and upset these calls wouldve 
caused, I dont think this justifies such a significant compensation payment that Miss G has 
suggested.
So, Ive considered the upset Miss G wouldve felt initially when she received calls from an 
unknown number. And Ive also considered the worry Miss G wouldve felt after learning 
about the data breach, as I think it would be natural for her to have concerns about other 
information HPAS held. Ive then thought about this against the fact that the actual 
information included in the e-mail, which while personal, wasnt what the ICO would class as 
high-risk personal information. This means Miss G wasnt exposed to potentially significant 
fraudulent activity due to the breach. Having thought about all of this together, I think the 
£200 already recommended about our investigator is a fair one that falls in line with our 
services approach and what I wouldve recommended, had it not already been made. So, I 
think HPAS should pay Miss G £200.
I understand this isnt the amount Miss G was hoping for. And I appreciate this doesnt fall in 
line with legal advice shes sought. But its important to note our service is an alternative to 
the courts. And we dont make determinations on whether laws have been broken. Miss G 
still has the option to pursue her complaint through legal channels if she wishes to do so 
although any acceptance of this decision would be legally binding on HPAS and may impact 
this course of action moving forwards. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint about H.P.A.S. Limited trading 
as Safestyle (U.K.) and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss G £200 to recognise the upset shes been caused if this hasnt already 
been completed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman