DRN-4268824
The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his credit card account, 
which meant he lost out on reward points and a hotel voucher. Hed like to be compensated 
and to receive the voucher.
What happened
Mr W held a credit card account with Creation. A feature of this account was that he could 
earn reward points that could then be traded for hotel stays or experiences. In September 
2021 Creation wrote to Mr W to let him know theyd be closing his account in December 
2021. They also stopped crediting the account with the reward points.
Unhappy with this Mr W complained to Creation, but they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. They said the terms of the account gave them the right to close it by providing the 
required notice, and in this case they had. They also said that the benefits, such as the 
reward points, could be removed at any time
Mr W then referred his complaint to our service. Before one of our investigators could look 
into the complaint Creation made an offer to credit his reward account with the points he 
would have accrued and issue a pro rata refund of the annual account fee of £65.62. Mr W 
declined this, saying it was inadequate. He asked for a certificate for a free nights hotel stay 
that he said he would have qualified for if the account had stayed open.
Our investigator felt the offer was fair. They were satisfied Creation had the right to close Mr 
Ws account and had issued the required notice. The reward points had since been 
transferred to his reward account, so hed been put back in the position he would have been 
in, and the pro-rated refund of the account fee was reasonable. At the point Creation closed 
his account he hadnt qualified for the free hotel night, so it wasnt reasonable to ask 
Creation to compensate him for this.
Mr W disagreed, saying that this failed to address his financial loss, and doesnt take in to 
account that he entered into a contract he paid a fee for and Creation failed to provide the 
service. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to be to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, including the specific submissions from Mr W sent before ethe 
deadline, Im satisfied that I have enough information on file to reach a decision.
Account closure
The terms of Mr Ws Creation account say that the account can be closed for any 
reasonable reason if they provide at least 60 days notice. In this case Ive seen the notice 
Creation sent, and Im satisfied it provided the required amount of notice. Mr W got in touch 
with Creation about the closure in October 2022, which satisfies me the closure notice was 
received and understood.
Having reviewed the evidence supplied by Creation, Im satisfied the decision to close 
Mr Ws account wasnt unreasonable, or irrational. Ive no doubt Mr W would be shocked 
and upset to learn his account was to be closed, btu I cant say Creation have treated him 
unfairly in doing so.
Reward points, annual fee and hotel voucher
I understand Creation have already awarded Mr Ws reward account with the accrued points, 
which is the fairest thing to do in the circumstances. Hes now back in the position he would 
have been in had they done so in December 2021.
Creation have also offered him the pro rata refund of the annual account fee, which he paid 
in July 2022. This is a fair and reasonable suggestion  as Mr W commented hes paid for 
the full year of the credit card, but only received a partial years worth of service. I agree that 
he shouldnt have to pay for the full year. Having reviewed the figures, Im satisfied the 
offered £65.62 represents a pro-rated refund of the unused portion.
In regard to the free nights voucher, Mr W hasnt disputed that he didnt meet the threshold 
for the free night voucher but could have if the account remained open. But as Ive 
mentioned above the closure was reasonable and in line with the terms. I wouldnt ask 
Creation to cover losses that may arise from reasonable actions, so it follows that I cant 
reasonably direct Creation to offer him this voucher or a cash alternative.
Mr W has also mentioned his financial losses but has not provided anything further to 
demonstrate what these are. So, Ive not seen anything to suggest Creation should pay 
Mr W any more than theyve already offered to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited must refund the unused portion 
of Mr Ws annual fee of £65.62.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman