DRN-4228713
The complaint
Mr C complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very charged him interest 
on his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) purchase even though he made the required payments.
What happened
Mr C purchased an item through very on a BNPL basis  this allowed him to purchase an 
item and defer paying for it for a period of time. If that time limit is exceeded, then interest 
becomes payable on the purchase. 
In March 2023 the interest free period was coming to an end, so Mr C says he made two 
payments on the same day to clear the balance. One for £20, and another for £200.
Later in March 2023, Mr C logged on to his account with very to find his £200 payment 
hadnt been processed and hed been charged interest of £61.08. After finding this, Mr C 
made the payment to clear the balance, but he felt it unfair he was charged interest.
In their response, very said a payment was due by 2 March 2023, and because it wasnt 
received, interest of £61.08 was applied. They added full terms and conditions of the BNPL 
scheme could be found on the website and were provided before and during the order 
process.
Unhappy with this, Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but 
found no evidence of Mr C attempting to make the payment of £200  so he didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with this, saying he tried to make the payment, it didnt go through, and 
nobody let him know it hadnt gone through. Because of this, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs £20 payment is showing as credited to his account with very on 28 February 2023. 
And the £200 payment due by 2 March 2023 is showing as credited on 23 March 2023  
three weeks later.
I should make it clear to Mr C I can only require very to refund the interest payments if I find 
theyve done something wrong.
Mr C has been clear and consistent in saying he tried to make the payment. Ive seen no 
reason to disbelieve this  so I accept he did try and make the payment. Unfortunately, for 
reasons that arent clear, the payment didnt go through. 
In Mr Cs opinion, very should have let him know the payment didnt go through. I dont 
though agree with this. I think verys primarily responsibility was to let him know about the 
amounts due, when they were due, and what would happen if the amount wasnt paid in 
time.
Ive seen in Mr Cs statements they made all of this clear. Ultimately it was Mr Cs 
responsibility to ensure the payment was made and his payment didnt go through. In 
support of their position, very provided information to show Mr C only made one payment on 
28 February 2023. This would have been the £20 which successfully went through. There 
were no messages to show an attempted second payment or any error messages were sent 
/ received by very for the £200 payment. So its not even clear to me very knew Mr C had 
attempted to make more than one payment. Why Mr Cs attempted payment of £200 didnt 
go through I simply dont know  but Ive seen nothing to suggest very were at fault for this.
Overall, Ive seen nothing to suggest very made an error, and as they notified Mr C of what 
amount was due, when it was due, and the amount of interest that could be due, I cant say 
theyve done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman