DRN-3788012
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the interest rates National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
applied to her Guaranteed Growth Bonds (GGB) when she renewed them in 2020 upon 
maturity.
What happened
Mrs T had two bonds which were coming to maturity in December 2020. One on 9 
December (account number ending 0956  Bond A) and the other on 14 December 
(account number ending 2061  Bond B). The auto-renewal option for both bonds was for a 
three-year term at an interest rate of 0.4%. The NS&I system allowed for a customer to go 
online to choose their options for maturing bonds a month before maturity.
After receiving the maturity letters in November Mrs T went online to review the options 
available and was offered the following:
One-year term at 1.10%
Two-year term at 1.20%
Three-year term at 0.4% (the auto-renewal rate)
Five-year term at 1.65%.
On 16 November Mrs T chose the following options online:
For Bond A she chose two new bonds 
1. £26,752.56 invested into a one-year term GGB at 1.10%
2. £80,000 invested into a five-year term GGB at 1.65%.
For Bond B she chose 
1. £21,350.51 invested into a two-year term GGB at 1.20%.
The interest rates that were actually applied were different:
For Bond A the interest rates were 0.10% and 0.55% respectively
For Bond B the interest rate was 0.15%.
After she checked the renewal interest rates for Bond A Mrs T complained to NS&I on 9 
December. In NS&Is final response letter it said:
The maturity letter of 9 November 2020 gave the correct information.
When Mrs T had gone online to make her choice on 16 November the website 
showed incorrect interest rates.
After the bond (Bond A) matured on 9 December Mrs T was sent a maturity 
statement confirming the new investments with the correct interest rates.
It offered Mrs T the option to close her account without penalty.
It offered its apologies and paid £30 into Mrs Ts bank account for the inconvenience 
caused.
(NS&I only referred to one of the bonds in its final response letter but confirmed with us that 
the complaint about both bonds could be considered.)
Mrs T wasnt happy with NS&Is response and told us:
What NS&I had done may be illegal under online consumer contract law. NS&I 
should honour the interest rates she had committed to.
NS&Is application of its rules was one-sided, and she gave the example that if she 
had made a mistake in committing to a five-year bond and then went back to NS&I 
later, she would not be able to withdraw from the contract.
The point made about the maturity letter was irrelevant. Her correspondence with 
NS&I was electronic. She had gone onto the website to renew her maturing bonds 
and selected the term lengths and the interest rates that were offered. She didnt 
read the letter that had been sent separately and even if she had, the interest rates 
may have changed in the meantime, and she questioned how was she to have 
known they were wrong when she applied online. She hadnt been asked to confirm 
she had read the letter with the different interest rates shown.
The option NS&I offered of closing her account would cost her thousands of pounds. 
She thought legally and morally NS&I should honour the original rates.
The investigator who considered the complaint thought that NS&I should do more than it had 
already offered. They said:
It had been agreed there was an error on NS&Is website but rather than asking NS&I 
to honour its mistake the investigator would consider what Mrs T would have done if 
she had been provided with the correct information at the time she renewed her 
bonds.
Mrs T had said that if she had known the actual rates she would likely have shopped 
around and thought that those comparable interest rates would have been about 1% 
or more.
The investigator thought Mrs T had lost out financially because of NS&Is error 
between the date she invested into the new bonds (with effect from December) to the 
date NS&I issued its final response letter in March 2021.
The final response letter had clarified the correct interest rates and was the point at 
which Mrs T could have moved her money to earn a better interest rate.
The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Mrs T to have relied on the 
information she saw online.
As it couldnt be known what Mrs T would have invested into if she had been aware 
of the correct interest rates, the investigator reviewed interest rates from the time. 
She took the average between the lowest and highest interest rates that were 
available for both a one- and five-year bond using deposit amounts of £10,000 or 
more and £50,000 or more. If that was the case, for Bond A Mrs T could have earned 
around 0.47% on a one-year bond and 0.81% on a five-year bond. For Bond B she could have earned around 0.5% on a two-year bond.
The investigator said NS&I should pay those rates from the start date of the new 
bonds to one week after the final response letter was issued. That additional week 
was to acknowledge it may have taken Mrs T that amount time to find another 
provider and arrange a transfer.
The investigator also thought Mrs T should not pay any exit fees if she chose to 
leave.
In response to the investigator Mrs T made some points:
With reference to consumer finance law, surely this service had a role in upholding 
the law for consumers. Mrs T had made an online contract with NS&I and why was it 
that NS&I could walk away from the contract.
Mrs Ts complaint was about the principle of financial institutions doing the right thing.
She didnt think it was right to stop the higher interest payment in March 2021. Mrs T 
had left her money in the bonds as she believed NS&I should honour the rates and 
she was still going through the complaint procedure.
She could have invested her money in many different ways and could have invested 
for longer terms with other institutions.
NS&I didnt agree with the investigator. In its responses it said:
It didnt agree redress should be offered to one week after the final response letter 
was issued. It said that after maturity of the bonds it had sent Mrs T maturity 
statements showing the correct interest rates and gave her the right to cancel within 
30 days.
Mrs Ts husband had called NS&I in December and the different rates had been 
explained.
It had offered Mrs T cancellation of the bonds in December, but she hadnt taken that 
option and the funds remained invested.
The second of our investigators who considered the complaint asked for further information 
from NS&I. And after reviewing the information received issued a further opinion about the 
complaint. He said:
He didnt think it was unreasonable for Mrs T to have relied upon the online 
information she looked at subsequent to the maturity letters being sent.
When Mr T called the NS&I on 11 December 2020 one of bonds was discussed, and 
he didnt it was fair to apply this to the issues surrounding Mrs Ts bonds. Other 
general points about interest rates were discussed so they also thought Mrs T 
wouldnt have been sure of the correct interest rates as they werent clarified to the 
point it wouldve removed any doubt. 
And it was fair to say that Mrs T wouldnt want to make the significant decision of 
closing her account until she was certain of the correct interest rates as clarified in 
the final response letter.
Therefore, he thought it was fair to take the notification of the correct rates as at the 
date of the final response letter of 18 March 2021 as there wouldnt have been any 
doubt about the interest rates that applied to the account in December 2020 wouldnt 
be changed and if Mrs T didnt accept those she could cancel.
He thought the £30 payment was fair for the inconvenience caused but that Mrs T should be refunded the difference in interest rates between the start date of the new 
bonds in December 2020 and one week after the final response letter was issued  
so 25 March 2021. Again, this was to allow a week for Mrs T to shop around if she 
wanted to. He also thought Mrs T should be able to exit the bonds without penalty.
NS&I didnt agree with the investigator:
The maturity letters sent on 9 and 13 November included a summary box which 
confirmed the correct interest rates as did the maturity statements dated 9 and 14 
December, as well as including the cooling off period of 30 days in the latter.
Mrs T had called NS&I on 5 January 2021 requesting the cooling off period be 
extended until the complaint was investigated by NS&I, to which it agreed, as well as 
penalty free exit in its final response. Mrs T still remained invested.
Both parties asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. And Mrs T made some 
comments for the ombudsman to review:
Mrs T didnt recall in detail the call of 5 January 2021 but thought that what NS&I had 
said made sense. At that point she had not been told of the outcome to her complaint 
and it would have been logical for her to ask for an extension to the 30-day cooling 
off period until the outcome of her complaint was known.
Mrs T had remained invested as she hoped the ombudsman would find in her favour 
and compel NS&I to honour the interest rates that she had applied for.
 NS&I had agreed its website showed the wrong interest rates at the point of renewal. 
There was nothing in the terms and conditions tick box compelling Mrs T to read the 
maturity letters or that NS&I could unilaterally break the online contract. The maturity 
letters were irrelevant as Mrs T went straight to the renewal options on NS&Is 
website. And she reiterated the point about how would she have known the rates 
hadnt changed from when the letters were sent to the date when she went online  
which she would expect to be more up to date than the letters..
Mrs T said that she believed she had agreed to an unbreakable online contract and if 
NS&I were legally allowed to unilaterally change the contract they had with her then 
the investigators proposed solution was fair. But if NS&I were not legally allowed to 
change an interest rate unilaterally then it wasnt a fair outcome and she would 
welcome an ombudsmans view.
She felt strongly this service needed to take a view on the legality of what NS&I had 
done in changing the terms of the contracts.
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision that I thought it should be upheld but I asked both parties to give me 
anything they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said that the error was NS&Is and was a unilateral mistake. And 
in that case, in order for the contracts entered into to be voided under contract law there 
were two points to be considered. Whether the mistake related to the fundamental terms and 
conditions of the contract  which I concluded it did. And whether Mrs T was aware of the 
mistake and used it to her advantage  I concluded that she didnt.
So, I didnt think the tests had been passed which would allow NS&I to void the contracts 
Mrs T entered into when she renewed her bonds. And as a result NS&I should honour the 
contracts and the terms it agreed to in November 2020. In response to my provisional decision Mrs T was happy with the outcome. She went onto 
explain that the one-year bond had matured on 9 December 2021 and after discussion with 
this service that it wouldnt prejudice her case, she encashed the two- and five-year bonds 
on 16 December 2021. She had taken up NS&Is offer to release her from the contracts 
early following its mistake. 
NS&I also replied. It said the renewed contract dates should start with effect from 9 and 14 
December 2020 when the earlier held bonds matured and not on the date Mrs T gave her 
instruction on 16 November.
Mrs T said she didnt read the letters NS&I had sent her. NS&I said if she had Mrs T would 
have been aware that it mentioned that we will give you the rate on offer when the 
investment matures. And that when Mrs T gave her instructions the website explained that 
the interest rate could change before the maturity date and she would be given the rate on 
offer when the investment matures. The customer was asked to tick to confirm they read 
the terms and conditions. NS&I has sent us a screenshot of what it says Mrs T would have 
seen at the time and I note it says This interest rate could change between now and your 
maturity date. We will give you the rate on offer when your investment matures.
It said it makes clear to a customer they will receive the rate on offer at maturity and gave 30 
days cancellation if they no longer wished to invest. This was extended in the case of Mrs T 
who had encashed the two- and five-year bonds early.
Because of the information the parties had given me I issued a second provisional decision 
which said;
In my provisional decision I said that in the particular circumstances of Mrs Ts 
complaint it was the relevant law  contract law  that I have to take into account, 
and which leads to the fair outcome. And in order for NS&I to void the contract the 
two elements of that law that I had to consider was whether the mistake related to the 
fundamental terms and condition of the contract and whether Mrs T was aware of the 
mistake and used it to her advantage.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that a unilateral mistake had been made by 
NS&I  that was accepted by the parties  and that mistake related to the 
fundamental terms and conditions of the contract  the interest rates. I also thought 
Mrs T acted in good faith when she entered into that contract and hadnt knowingly 
taken advantage of NS&Is error. And I am still of the opinion that is what is relevant 
to the complaint. 
As Ive mentioned above NS&I sent me a screenshot of what Mrs T saw when she 
renewed her bonds which was annotated that the interest rates could change and 
that the rate on offer when her investment matured would be applied to her renewed 
bonds. And Mrs T also had to acknowledge her acceptance of the underlying terms 
and conditions. Ive carefully considered whether this should make a difference to the 
overall outcome to this complaint. 
But I dont think the inclusion in the summary box that interest rates could change 
between date of application and date of maturity makes a difference to my decision in 
this case. I say this because its known that the interest rates that Mrs T was offered  
and which I think she accepted in good faith  were actually offered in error. And I 
dont think it would be right for NS&I to rely on the summary box annotation to be a 
catch all for any potential errors it may make. I dont think that would be fair and 
reasonable to the consumer. I think it would be reasonable to apply warnings to interest rates which were correctly 
offered and then did fluctuate, but this is a different. Its not the case here that the 
interest rates offered to Mrs T fluctuated between acceptance and maturity. Its the 
case that the interest rates she was offered were wrong in the first instance so it 
doesnt follow that those particular interest rates would fluctuate as they were outside 
of the rates that were actually being offered by NS&I. 
So, and referring back to the relevant contract law that Im of the opinion applies to 
this complaint, I currently remain of the view that the tests havent been passed that 
would allow NS&I to void the contracts entered into when Mrs T renewed her bonds 
online.
Putting things right
Mrs T has told us the one-year bond has matured and that she encashed the two- 
and five- year bonds on 16 December 2021. In my provisional decision I said that for 
redress purposes the interest rates Mrs T agreed to in November 2020 should be 
applied until maturity of the bonds. At that time, I wasnt aware that Mrs T had 
encashed two of the bonds. This has an impact on how I think the matter should be 
put right.
We asked Mrs T what she had done with the funds she had received when she 
encashed the two- and five-year bonds. She told us she had reinvested the proceeds 
of both sales  less £50,000  into a variable NS&I account and the interest rate is 
currently 1.2%.
So this changes how I propose to put the matter right as Mrs T cant benefit by 
receiving two lots of interest  the interest rates that applied to the two and five year 
bonds until maturity  as she would effectively be receiving interest from her 
reinvested funds in the variable NS&I account as well.
For the £50,000 that Mrs T didnt reinvest, its impossible for me to know for sure 
whether she would have encashed her NS&I two- and five-year bonds early if it 
werent for the website interest rate errors caused by NS&I. But it was Mrs Ts 
decision to use this sum for other personal purposes. So, on balance I think it most 
likely Mrs T would have taken this amount out of her bonds and bearing in mind the 
amounts invested, I think it would be most likely have come from the five year bond 
where £80,000 was invested.
For the one-year bond which has already matured, Mrs T should be paid the 
offered rate of 1.1% until the maturity date.
For the five-year bond, which was encashed in December 2021, Mrs T should be 
paid the agreed interest rates on the total £80,000 until the date of encashment. 
And thereafter should be paid the difference between the five-year bond rate and 
the NS&I variable account rate but on the reduced amount of £30,000 as a 
reflection of the £50,000 Mrs T chose not to reinvest.
For the two-year bond, again which has been cashed, the interest rates agreed 
should be paid from the outset until the date of encashment. And after that Mrs T 
should be paid the difference between the interest rate she should have earned 
and what she earns on her NS&I variable account until maturity which is in 
December this year.
Clearly the variable NS&I account interest rates may have changed over the 
period of investment and NS&I should reflect those changes to the interest 
rates that apply to the redress calculations. I should also confirm that I remain of the view that the new contract dates were 
on the date that Mrs T agreed to the new terms. But accept that the new 
interest rates arent applicable until after the original bonds matured.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. NS&I said;
It appeared that I was saying that if correct interest rates had fluctuated between 
renewal application and the start of the new contract then its warnings about the offer 
not being guaranteed would stand. But because it had quoted incorrect interest rates 
it has to honour those rates and its warnings about the wrong offer not being 
guaranteed didnt stand. It said this didnt seem fair to customers where it happens, 
and the rates are correct. Mrs T was getting treated more favourably and Im allowing 
her to take advantage of what was essentially a mistake. 
It questioned my comment about whether Mrs T had been aware of the mistake and 
whether she used it to her advantage. In particular it mentioned the three-year term 
rate at 0.4% that was clearly lower than the other incorrect rates but Mrs T didnt 
query this with NS&I. The correct rates were always quoted in the summary, so it 
considered Mrs T had used the mistake to her advantage. 
It didnt agree that a customer entered a new contract at the renewal instruction 
stage but when the new contract begins, and the existing bond matures. That is why 
it offered a 30-day cancellation period from the start of the new terms. A customer 
can change or edit their instruction up to the point of the maturing date of the existing 
bond. 
Mrs T was pleased with the outcome but was concerned I was being too generous to her. 
She said;
She agreed with my point about the interest rates and warnings NS&I gave that they 
could be changed. 
There wasnt normally the opportunity to withdraw from these bonds once the 30-day 
cooling off period has passed. But NS&I had allowed Mrs T to get her money out of 
these products early. She initially wanted to wait until the outcome of her complaint 
with the Financial Ombudsman before she made any decision to withdraw but 
decided to do so in December 2021 and moved the money into an NS&I Direct Saver 
account. That account is more flexible, and she could do other things with the money, 
for example, invest in other higher interest-bearing accounts or use the money for 
other purposes.
She thought it would be fairer along the following lines;
oMrs T agreed NS&I should honour the interest rates that were offered on the 
one-year bond and for the two- and five-year bonds but only up to the point 
she withdrew her funds in December 2021. 
oFor the two and five year bonds NS&I should either pay no further interest in 
settlement as Mrs T was then free to do what she liked or it should honour the 
interest rates up to the point of my decision net of the money she has taken 
out of her Direct Saver account as described in my provisional decision. It 
didnt seem fair for NS&I to continue to pay extra interest beyond then as Mrs 
T was free to invest in other products  another product provider was now 
paying 3.5% on one of its bonds. Mrs T wasnt sure for what period I had 
meant NS&I to pay extra interest for. 
oMrs T also said that the £50,000 I referred to in my provisional decision was 
in fact the sum of £30,000 and was taken out of the Direct Saver account  £10,000 was withdrawn on 31 May 2022 and £20,000 on 16 September 2022. 
In conclusion, Mrs T agree with the outcome albeit the redress should be as per one of the 
choices she referred to above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I has said that I am favouring Mrs T over other customers when I say the interest rates 
she was offered should stand because it quoted the wrong rates and I was allowing her to 
take advantage of its mistake. 
In my second provisional decision I said that I didnt think it would be fair for a summary box 
annotation  saying that interest rates could fluctuate between the date of application and 
the date of maturity of the existing bond  should be used as a catch all for any potential 
errors NS&I may make. 
And I remain of that view. I think the two scenarios are distinct from each other. I think it 
would be fair to apply it when interest rates fluctuated, and the correct interest rates were 
given at the point of application. But in the case of Mrs T those rates were wrong. And I dont 
think NS&I cant rely on that annotation in order for it to void a contract it offered and agreed 
to and which was also agreed to by Mrs T in good faith. 
NS&I has said the three-year rate in particular was clearly lower than the other incorrect 
rates and Mrs T didnt query this and used the mistake to her advantage. I addressed this 
point in my first provisional decision where I discussed whether Mrs T was aware of the 
mistake and whether she used it to her advantage. I concluded that Mrs T did have 
questions about the correct rates as evidenced  by amongst other things  her husband 
contacting NS&I via an online chat about the various rates he and Mrs T had seen, but after 
doing all they could to try and find out more, that Mrs T had acted in good faith when she 
made her application. 
With reference to the point at which a new contract begins  it should be when the existing 
bond matures and the new contract (and interest rates) begins. 
Mrs T has been able to come out of the contracts early for the two- and five-year bonds and 
now has her funds in an account where she can move them around and so she can take 
advantage of that. And the fact is that interest rates have moved in her favour  the Bank of 
England raising them eight times since December 2021. So, its not a surprise she can 
obtain a higher return than she would otherwise have obtained. 
With regard to Mrs Ts comment that my proposed redress is generous to her, in my 
provisional decision I explained that Mrs T should be paid the difference between the interest 
rates she accepted and the interest rates she was now receiving. So, if the interest rate she 
is now receiving is higher than the interest rates she applied for then nothing is owed to her. 
So I agree with Mrs Ts comment that any redress should be up until the date of this decision 
as Mrs T is now able to obtain a higher fixed term account and I have clarified this point in 
how NS&I should put things right below. 
Mrs T has confirmed that she only removed £30,000 from her NS&I Direct Saver account 
and not £50,000 as I had previously stated. This will have an impact on how the matter 
should be put right. Putting things right
Your text here Mrs T has told us the one-year bond has matured and that she encashed the 
two- and five- year bonds on 16 December 2021. 
We asked Mrs T what she had done with the funds she had received when she encashed 
the two- and five-year bonds. She told us she had reinvested the proceeds of both into a 
variable rate NS&I Direct Saver account and the interest rate at that time was 1.2%. Mrs T 
confirmed that she had withdrawn a total of £30,000 from her Direct Saver account. £10,000 
on 31 May 2022 and £20,000 on 16 September 2022. 
So this changes how I propose to put the matter right as Mrs T cant benefit by receiving two 
lots of interest  the interest rates that applied to the two and five year bonds until maturity 
as she would effectively be receiving interest from her reinvested funds in the NS&I Direct 
Saver account as well.
For the one-year bond which has already matured, Mrs T should be paid the offered 
rate of 1.1% until the maturity date.
For the five-year bond, which was encashed in December 2021, Mrs T should be 
paid the agreed interest rates on the total £80,000 until the date of encashment. And 
thereafter should be paid the difference between the five-year bond rate and the 
NS&I Direct Saver account rate on the amount invested but reduced by £10,000 (with 
effect from 31 May 2022) and a further £20,000 (with effect from 16 September 2022) 
as a reflection of the total withdrawal of £30,000. And I agree with Mrs Ts point that 
this should only be up to the date of this decision, as we dont know whats 
happening in the future and Mrs T can now obtain a far higher fixed term account. 
For the two-year bond, again which has been cashed, the interest rates agreed 
should be paid from the outset until the date of encashment. And after that Mrs T 
should be paid the difference between the interest rate she should have earned and 
what she earns on her NS&I account until maturity which was in December 2022.
Clearly the variable NS&I Direct Saver account interest rates will have changed over the 
period of investment. NS&I has confirmed that with effect from 25 October 2022 rates stood 
at 1.80% and with effect from 13 December 2022 it stands at 2.30% - both rates are higher 
than the 1.65% which was originally offered on the five year bond and which would mean 
that nothing was due to Mrs T during those periods. NS&I should reflect those changes to 
the interest rates that apply to any redress calculations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and National Savings and Investments 
should put the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman