DRN-3621851
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted him an Aqua credit card 
that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr B entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit with an Aqua credit 
card account. The account was opened in July 2020 with a credit limit of £450. There then 
followed three credit limit increases, in December 2020 (to £1,450),  May 2021 (to £2,450) 
and then in September 2021 when the credit limit was increased to £3,450. 
Mr B says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it granted him 
increased credit limits. He says if it had carried out proper checks, it would have seen that it 
wasnt affordable for him due to his overall financial situation and use of gambling sites. 
Our adjudicator at first said that NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Bs credit limit in 
December 2020. But after NewDay provided some further information, our adjudicator said 
the account became unaffordable when the credit limit was from increased £2,450 to £3,450 
in September 2021. 
NewDay didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Mr Bs financial circumstances before granting him the account and the credit limit 
increases. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Account opening
NewDay completed a credit check to look into Mr Bs financial circumstances. New Day also 
relied on information Mr B gave in his application. Mr B said he had an annual income of 
around £19,000. Whilst there was evidence of Mr B having a default on another account, this 
was around 15 months before he opened the account. Ive also seen that NewDays checks 
showed he had around £100 in outstanding unsecured debt. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the opening checks showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr B. I say 
this because, given the available information about his income and debt, it was likely that the 
relatively modest opening credit limit of £450 would be affordable for him. I therefore dont 
think New Day acted unfairly when approving the finance application. Ive kept in mind that 
Mr B had taken out four payday loans at around this time, but Ive seen that this isnt 
information that would necessarily have been available to NewDay at the time. But even if it 
was, I think on balance that given the low opening credit limit, the account was likely to have 
been affordable. 
First and second credit limit increases
The initial £450 opening credit limit was increased to £1,450 in December 2020 and then to 
£2,450 in May 2021.
The checks carried out by NewDay showed Mr B had around £300 in unsecured debt and 
that his overall financial position was improving. But the information Mr B gave us shows he 
was continuing to rely on short term borrowing. Mr B was however able to go on meeting his 
regular payments to the account and on occasion was making payments that were above 
the minimum required. 
I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to find out more 
about any changes to Mr Bs income as well as the level of committed expenditure he had at 
the point of each of these increases. I cant be sure exactly what NewDay would have found 
out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Mr Bs bank statements as to what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to each of these lending 
decisions. Ive seen that Mr B had also taken out at least one payday loan in the three 
months prior to each credit limit increase. But as Ive said, this isnt information that would 
necessarily have been available to NewDay at the time. Ive also seen that Mr B was making 
extensive use of online gambling sites. Ive thought about this carefully but the position 
remains that Mr B was still able to manage his day to day living expenses and appeared able 
to fund his gambling out of his disposable income. Ive seen that Mr B acknowledges that his 
gambling had become a problem and took steps to restrict his use of these sites.
Overall, this suggests that Mr B  had enough disposable income each month to make 
regular, sustainable repayments towards his card. Had NewDay completed proportionate 
checks for each credit limit increase, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It 
therefore didnt act unfairly by granting Mr B these two credit limit increases. 
Third credit limit increase
In September 2021 Mr Bs credit limit increased by another £1,000, to £3,450, Again, I think 
it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have found out more about Mr Bs 
committed expenditure for this increase. But by this point Mr Bs level of unsecured debt had 
increased to around £3,700 and he was continuing to make use of gambling sites. In the 
previous three months he had also incurred at least one overlimit fee and had continued to  
make use of pay day loans. I therefore think there was a real risk that Mr B could be pushed 
into financial difficulty and that the additional credit limit was therefore unlikely to be 
affordable for him. 
It follows that I agree with our adjudicator that NewDay ought not to have increased Mr Bs 
credit limit in September 2021. Ive seen that Mr B contacted NewDay in November 2021 about his situation and was given 
a payment holiday that has now expired. I would however expect NewDay to continue to act 
with appropriate forbearance in seeking to assist Mr B in his efforts to find a fair and 
manageable way to pay back the balance that is still owing on his account.
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Bs credit limit to £3,450 in September 2021. NewDay 
therefore needs to do the following. 
Rework Mr Bs account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £2,450, being the previous credit limit 
increase. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay should contact Mr B to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Mr B has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from 14 
September 2021 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. NewDay 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file from 
14 September 2021 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman