DRN-2241721
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (when it was trading as 
Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) with 
their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI alongside a mortgage in 1992. The policy paid a monthly benefit 
and covered Mr C in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with this 
view. Theyve mentioned the following points of particular concern:
it was impressed upon them that signing up to the PPI was part of the mortgage 
package 
although the mortgage was in joint names only Mr C could potentially benefit from a 
successful claim 
the value of the policy wasnt sufficient to cover the monthly mortgage payments so 
there was no point in having it
Mr and Mrs C hadnt ever taken out PPI on their two previous mortgages because 
they had never needed it 
and they didnt need PPI this time either as they both had good benefits packages 
through work plus savings.
Mr and Mrs C have asked for a final decision so this complaint comes to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Only Mr C had PPI but Mrs C was a joint party to the mortgage. So Ive looked at the 
information supplied about both their circumstances.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland couldnt provide any documents from the PPI sale so Ive seen nothing 
signed by Mr and Mrs C from then. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its 
not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. 
I wouldnt reasonably expect Bank of Scotland or Mr and Mrs C to have kept this. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs C to remember exactly what was 
discussed when they took out PPI so long ago. This means that what they say isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. If theres only limited 
information I have to make reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
In order to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint Id have to find that its likely they werent given 
a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Bank of Scotland 
didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs C not to choose PPI if they didnt want to 
have it. Their mortgage was a major financial commitment and their home wouldve been at 
risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. The policy offered Mr and Mrs C 
benefits that they didnt otherwise have. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful 
 even if they hadnt felt it was something they wanted with their previous mortgages. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C decided they wanted to have the 
benefits that the policy offered and they chose to take out PPI for Mr C. 
Bank of Scotland advised Mr and Mrs C to buy the PPI. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. And if 
this didnt happen, I need to think about whether this makes any overall difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
I dont see any reason why a PPI recommendation for Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been 
suitable based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Mr C was eligible for the policy. The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit to help with 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage monthly repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
This was longer than Mr C wouldve received full sick pay if he couldnt work. And the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay from work, providing Mr and Mrs C with a useful 
benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if hed needed to claim  especially as 
they mightve had extra costs as a result of Mr C being off work ill or with a disability. 
Repeat claims were possible which meant the policy offered long term protection for 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage. 
Being entitled to a redundancy payment wouldnt have helped Mr C if he was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any money he mightve got if hed lost his job, giving 
him some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C mentioned having savings at the time. But it looks like they mightve used at 
least some of that money as a deposit on their new home. 
Even if the savings they mentioned werent put towards buying their new house, I dont know 
if Mr and Mrs C wouldve always had savings they couldve relied on if Mr C had needed to 
make a claim. And, if they didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of borrowing and they 
preferred to keep savings intact, perhaps to provide financial security or use for other 
spending they mightve had planned, then I think theyd have valued the protection PPI 
offered. Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs C couldve relied on the policy to help pay their 
mortgage monthly repayments without necessarily needing to draw on their savings.  
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs C dont feel that Mrs C couldve benefitted from the 
policy  and the monthly benefit wasnt enough to cover the whole of their monthly 
repayments. But this doesnt mean they were mis-sold the policy. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs C wouldve been able to choose whether or not to share the 
policy benefits so they were both covered. And they couldve chosen how much monthly 
benefit they wanted to buy. So, in order to set up the cover this way, Mr and Mrs C must 
have had a discussion about how to set up the policy benefits. Even if, understandably, 
theyve forgotten all these details now, Ive seen nothing to make me think that the 
arrangement they had in place didnt reflect their wishes at the time or that it wasnt suitable 
for them. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs C wouldve been able to manage the mortgage repayments for 
very long if Mr C wasnt working  especially since hed wouldve been on half pay only after 
just 6 months if he wasnt well enough to return to work. I think its possible that, at the time, 
they selected the amount of benefit they felt they could comfortably afford and they chose to 
take out the policy only in Mr Cs name possibly because he was (by a small margin) the 
main earner. 
Having PPI wouldve meant Mr and Mrs C could be sure theyd be able to rely on getting a 
substantial monthly contribution towards their total mortgage monthly repayment to help 
them keep on paying the mortgage - even if Mr C couldnt work. 
Overall, looking at their circumstances at the time, I think the PPI they took out provided 
Mr and Mrs C with a worthwhile benefit and I think the policy couldve been useful to them. 
There were some things that the PPI didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr C. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve made any difference to Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take out PPI for 
Mr C.
Some of the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about the PPI mightnt have been as 
clear as it shouldve been. So its possible there may have been some failings in the way this 
policy was sold. But the policy gave Mr and Mrs C useful protection in their particular 
situation and Ive seen nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for them. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs C still wouldve decided to buy the policy 
even if theyd been given clearer information. 
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of anything that Bank of 
Scotland did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman