DRN-4323163
The complaint
Ms H complains that V. Woodcock And Company (Insurance) Limited (Woodcock) sold her 
inappropriate home insurance for her requirements.
What happened
Ms H used a broker  Woodcock  to arrange home insurance for her property. She first 
arranged a policy with it in 1996. At this time she provided Woodcock with a home buyer 
survey to assist in providing details of the property. The survey included details of some wall 
plates that it commented suggested there had been movement in the past. 
Woodcock provided this to the insurer and the policy was arranged. Ms H arranged renewed 
cover through Woodcock each year from then until 2020. 
At this time Ms H had a conversation with one of her neighbours about obtaining insurance 
for their properties which were of similar construction. She said she was surprised to find 
that her neighbour didnt have to buy specialist insurance and bought theirs from a price 
comparison website. 
After this Ms H made a complaint to Woodcock. She said the broker had advised her that 
shed need specialist insurance due to the wall ties and that she would be unable to 
purchase this through price comparison sites. She said this meant she had bought specialist 
insurance through Woodcock for 23 years when she could have got standard insurance 
cheaper elsewhere. She said she used a broker in order to get expert advice on the 
insurance she needed and Woodcock had abused her trust. Woodcock didnt respond to her 
complaint, so she asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he thought Woodcock had acted fairly by passing the home buyers survey to the 
underwriter at inception. And didnt think he should have done anything more. 
Ms H didnt agree. She said Woodcock had told her she would be unable to purchase 
insurance elsewhere, which wasnt true. And if shed known this she would have paid less 
for insurance over the years. She also said dealing with the matter had caused her a great 
amount of stress which had impacted her health and it was made harder due to an existing 
disability. She also said Woodcock had failed to respond to her complaint which breached 
FCA guidelines and this hadnt been addressed by our investigator. She asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance policy is sold by a broker, they have an obligation under rules set out by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy. They also need to gather relevant information from their customer in order 
to pass to potential underwriters, so they have all the information they need to provide a 
suitable policy. Ive considered whether Woodcock met these obligations here.
I can see in 1996 Ms H provided a copy of her home buyers survey as part of her request 
for insurance. This included the following comment: 
Metal wall plates indicate that there has been some movement in the past but that it has 
been arrested by the ties.
Woodcock passed this on to the underwriter. With an accompanying letter that stated:
I attach hereto the Home Buyers Survey and Valuation in respect of the property on 
which we have been asked to arrange insurance. You will see under section C4 of page 
three that the surveyor has mentioned metal wall plates but that it is, in his opinion that any 
movement  is in the past and has been arrested by the ties.
[Ms H] has also spoken to the surveyor subsequent to the report and he advised that, in his 
opinion these wall plates have been in the property for some forty to fifty years.
From this I can see that Woodcock passed on the information provided by Ms H to the 
underwriter, pointing out any areas that may be relevant to its decision on cover provided. 
And this is what Id expect it to do. It would then be for the underwriter to decide whether the 
information was relevant to the policy it offers.
If the information contained in the survey was inaccurate or misleading, then it wouldnt be 
fair to hold Woodcock responsible for this. While it is an expert in insurance, it isnt its role to 
make decisions or provide opinions on the structure of a building. As the information in the 
survey was from a building expert, then they would have greater expertise in this area. So 
its reasonable for Woodcock to rely on it, rather than to question it or state its own opinion 
on the structure. And its role is to ask for that information from Ms H and pass it on to the 
underwriter. As this is what it did, Im satisfied it followed a fair process and met its 
obligations as a broker. 
Ms H has said that in 2014 she provided another survey from a potential buyer at the time. 
And in this, it concluded the wall ties were there purely to prevent deflection and made no 
mention of historic movement of the property. Woodcock has said it hadnt received a copy 
of this report, and while Ms H has provided an email to show she sent it to her solicitor, Ive 
not seen evidence that it was sent to Woodcock.
However, even if I had, Id only expect Woodcock to take the same action as it did with the 
home buyer survey  to pass it onto the underwriter for consideration. And it would be for the 
underwriter to decide if this impacted the insurance cover it provided. I wouldnt expect 
Woodcock to examine the report or draw conclusions about the propertys structure. 
Further, Ms H has said throughout her complaint that she is unhappy that shes had to buy 
specialist insurance for all these years when she could have had a standard policy. Ive 
looked at the policies she has taken out through Woodcock and I cant see that these are 
specialist. Nor do they appear to have any additional endorsements or terms due to the 
suspected previous movement referenced in the first report. In fact all references to signs of 
subsidence are marked as no in the statements of fact. So Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
she was paying for a different product than she would have done if Woodcock hadnt 
provided the home buyer report to the insurer in 2016. Should she have concerns about how 
the insurance was priced, then shed need to raise that with the insurer directly as it is them 
that decides the price, based on the risk presented. But from what Ive seen I havent found 
that Woodcock has got anything wrong.Ms H has also said that Woodcock told her she would be unable to use price comparison 
sites because of her requirements. And this meant she was under the impression that she 
had to use Woodcock to obtain insurance rather than shopping around. Woodcock has 
denied giving this advice. 
From looking at the correspondence provided, Ive not seen anything to suggest Woodcock 
did advise Ms H that she couldnt look elsewhere for insurance. The letters it sent with 
quotes at each renewal ask if she would like to go ahead and make clear that the prices 
offered are the best Woodcock could find from its panel. And each time Ms H has agreed to 
the quote. So Im not persuaded that Woodcock told her that shed be unable to obtain 
insurance from other brokers or online. 
Finally, Ms H has said that Woodcock didnt respond to her complaint within the time frames 
set by the FCA. And I agree this was the case. However this service can only consider 
complaints about activities that are regulated by the FCA. And while the FCA does provide a 
deadline for firms to respond to complaints within, that is only to ensure this service can 
review complaints where the business hasnt provided a timely answer. But complaint 
handling itself isnt an activity that is regulated by the FCA, so this service isnt able to look 
into complaints about this activity. So this is why this service hasnt addressed her points in 
relation to this.
I want to add that I appreciate this issue has caused Ms H a lot of distress. Shes explained 
that she has a disability and that her health has been impacted by the stress the issue has 
caused her. I was really sorry to hear about this. I can also see that she has gone to great 
lengths to get information from her neighbours, and the previous owners of her home, in 
order to support her case. While I understand her strength of feeling about the matter and 
sympathise with her position, in this decision I am only looking at the actions of Woodcock. 
And deciding if it acted fairly and reasonably and met its obligations as a broker. And from 
everything Ive seen I think it has. But by not upholding her complaint, I in no way wish to 
diminish the impact the matter has had on Ms H. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 5 
October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman