The complaint
Mr F and Mrs Ws representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on 
their behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited (the business). 
In short, the CMC says:
The were advised to invest at the wrong time as Mr F was being made redundant.
Too much money was invested.
The investment was high risk.
What happened
In late 2000, Mr F and Mrs W were advised to invest £15,000 into a With-Profits Investment 
Plan. Although the plan had no fixed end date, they were recommended to invest for a 
minimum of five years. The investment was encashed in March 2005 for £15,955.
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said: 
The recommendation was suitable for Mr F and Mrs W.
It met their objective for potentially achieving higher gains than a deposit account.
The With-Profits fund into which their money was invested is a low risk investment
and was suitable for cautious risk investors such as them.
Although the CMC says that Mr F was unemployed, it was recorded at the time that
he was employed and in receipt of a salary.
They were provided with policy documentation and the Illustration document which
made clear the nature and operation of the investment. No guarantees were given
about the level of returns.
Upon encashment in 2005, the investment proceeds were provided to Mr F and Mrs
W in a cheque for re-investment with another business.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Having reviewed the documentation hes satisfied that Mr F and Mrs W were low-risk
cautious investors.
He doesnt think the advice to invest in the Investment Plan was unsuitable given
Mr F and Mrs Ws circumstances. They had some capacity to invest and were willing
to take a small risk with their money.
DRN-1822167Mr F and Mrs W had a total of £20,000 in assets, comprised of £2,000 invested in 
stocks and shares and £18,000 held in a deposit account. The recommendation to 
invest £15,000 meant that they were left with only £3,000 for emergencies. 
Whilst hes seen no evidence to suggest that Mr F was being made redundant, he 
still thinks they werent left with a reasonable amount of cash for emergencies. 
Even though Mr F and Mrs W intended to re-invest the proceeds in 2005, this doesnt 
mean the recommendation made in 2000 was suitable. 
Mr F and Mrs W should be compensated on the basis of investing only 50% of their 
total investable assets  so £9,000 out of the £18,000 held in a deposit account. And 
because they were willing to take a small risk with their money redress should be 
calculated using the 50/50 benchmark.  
 
The business rejected the investigators view. In summary, it said:
Mr F and Mrs W were happy to invest £15,000 of their money and felt they had 
sufficient emergency funds at the outset. 
They made no effort to use the money and upon encashment used the money to re-
invest. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
At my suggestion the investigator notified the business that whilst I thought the complaint 
should be upheld, I thought the redress should be different. 
I said that on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think Mr F and Mrs W 
shouldve been advised to invest any more than £9,000 (50% of their available £18,000 
cash), so that they wouldve had a reasonable amount of cash available for emergencies.
So, in terms of redress, if Mr F and Mrs W had been advised to invest £9,000 instead of 
£15,000, they wouldve held the balance of £6,000 in the deposit-based account. 
Therefore, redress should be based upon comparing the value of the £6,000 using the fixed 
rate bond benchmark to reflect the no-risk, with 8% simple interest added to any loss. 
Both the CMC and the business agreed with the proposed redress. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think Mr F and Mrs W were advised to invest 
too much money. I think they shouldve been advised to invest only half of their available 
cash and not over three quarters of it.   That aside, Im satisfied that the advice to invest (as opposed to being advised to keep their 
money in a deposit-based account) was suitable. Its evident that they wanted to invest for 
the future for potentially better returns than a deposit-based account.    
I also think the advice to invest in the Investment Plan was suitable. Im satisfied that Mr F 
and Mrs W were willing to take a low risk with their money, so I dont think advice to invest in 
a low-risk With-Profits fund was unsuitable. 
Given that they were in their 40s, in good health and employed Im reasonably satisfied that 
they  even as first time/inexperienced investors  were in a good position to invest. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that they were risk-averse. 
I appreciate the point the CMC makes about Mr Fs employment status, but despite what it 
says Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was the case. The adviser can only go on the 
information that was provided at the time, and as far as I can see it was recorded that he 
was employed and in receipt of a salary. 
I appreciate the point the business makes about paying out the encashment proceeds in a 
cheque for re-investment, but that of itself isnt evidence that the advice given in 2000 was 
suitable. 
It might be that Mr F and Mrs Ws circumstances changed and that theyd built up savings or 
received money from a different source  I just dont know. In any case, Im only considering 
the suitability of the advice given in 2000 and not in relation to their decision to re-invest the 
money in 2005. 
With the power of hindsight, I appreciate that Mr F and Mrs W remained invested for the 
recommended minimum five years and made no attempt to withdraw any money. But that 
notwithstanding, I still think they were advised to invest too much of their available cash, and 
they werent left with a reasonable amount of cash for emergencies. Just because they were 
fortunate enough not to need money for an emergency doesnt make the unsuitable 
recommendation suitable. 
I appreciate Mr F and Mrs W signed the relevant documentation to confirm that they were 
content to proceed, but I think theyd have done so on advice from the business, and this 
doesnt mean the advice in 2000 was suitable. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think Mr F and Mrs W shouldve been 
advised to invest any more than £9,000 (50% of their available £18,000 cash), so that they 
wouldve had a reasonable amount of cash available for emergencies.
 
Putting things right
So, as Ive mentioned earlier, in terms of redress, if Mr F and Mrs W had been advised to 
invest £9,000 instead of £15,000, they wouldve held the balance of £6,000 in the deposit- 
based account. 
Therefore, redress should be based upon comparing the value of the £6,000 using the fixed 
rate bond benchmark to reflect the no-risk, with 8% simple interest added to any loss.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint. 
My decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay the amount calculated as set 
out above.
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr F and Mrs W in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman