DRN-2772514
The complaint
Mr L complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim on his home insurance and 
cancelled his policy.  
What happened
Mr L had a home insurance policy with AXA. The policy renewed in February 2018. In April 
that year Mr L informed AXA that he had moved properties and provided his new address. 
New policy documentation was sent to him to reflect the change.
In March 2019 Mr L made a claim for repairs following damage caused by water under the 
floorboards at his property. AXA sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage.
AXA subsequently declined the claim. It said that the damage was already there when he 
purchased the property and it hadnt been declared. Further it said due to the damage the 
property wasnt deemed to be in a good state of repair when it was purchased. And, as this 
was a condition of the policy, it cancelled Mr Ls policy on the basis that he hadnt met this 
condition. 
Mr L didnt think this was fair. He said that while the pre-purchase survey identified damp at 
the property, further investigation had uncovered a well below the reception rooms. And this 
is what had caused the damage. Further, he didnt understand what AXA had based its 
decision on when cancelling the policy. He made a complaint. 
AXA didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it was a condition of the policy that the property 
was in a good state of repair, and when he bought the property Mr L knew that it didnt meet 
the definition. Therefore it said it was right to cancel the policy. It also maintained that the 
claim wouldnt have been covered due to the damage being pre-existing. 
Mr L didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that she didnt feel AXA had asked Mr L a clear question about whether the property 
was in a good state of repair and therefore didnt think it was fair for it to cancel the policy 
under the relevant law. She also thought AXA should pay Mr L £350 compensation to make 
up for the distress and inconvenience the policy cancellation had caused him. 
Mr L accepted our investigators opinion. However AXA didnt agree. It said that it didnt 
agree that the law she considered was relevant in this case as it had cancelled the policy 
due to a policy condition and not due to misrepresentation. Further it said Mr Ls claim 
wouldnt be covered anyway, as it was due to pre-existing issues. AXA asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Since the complaint came to me I contacted AXA to say that I agreed with our investigators 
outcome, but for different reasons. I said that on reviewing the wording of the policy 
condition and the pre-purchase survey I didnt think it was fair that the condition was applied 
in the circumstances. So I said AXA should reinstate the policy and remove any cancellation 
markers against Mr L. I also didnt think it was fair that AXA should decline Mr Ls claim due 
to the issue being pre-existing. As the damp had been caused by an issue that had only 
been identified on further investigation.
AXA didnt agree with my view. It said that the pre-purchase survey raised numerous issues 
with the building, including damp and structural problems. So it thought this meant the 
property wasnt in a good state of repair. It also didnt agree the claim would be covered 
under the policy. I have taken AXAs comments into account when reaching my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer cancels a policy due to a condition, it is for the insurer to prove that this 
condition hasnt been met. 
The condition AXA has relied on in this case is as follows:
 
You must maintain your property in a good state of repair.
If following a claim, we identify that you have not maintained your property in a good state of
repair, and you refuse to maintain the state of your property to avoid future loss of damage. 
It could mean your policy will be cancelled by us providing 21 days written notice to your
current address or it may result in any relevant claims being reduced or refused. 
It says that after the claim was made and its loss adjuster inspected the property, it was 
clear it had a number of pre-existing issues at the time of purchase. AXA has pointed to 
areas of concern highlighted in the pre-purchase survey and has said that this means the 
property wasnt in a good state of repair when Mr L moved in, so the policy should be 
cancelled from that date.
I have considered this and I dont think AXA has fairly applied the condition in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
From looking at the pre-purchase survey I can see that there were a number of problems 
noted that needed attention. However it is also important to note that the house was built in 
the 19th century, and a lot of the problems that were picked up are common for houses 
constructed in that period. The report even states rising dampness will be a given with this 
type of property and that the structural issues are usually caused due to the way properties 
were built at the time. So while I agree that there were a number of issues raised in the 
report, I dont think it is fair to say that these issues mean a property of its age wasnt in a 
good state of repair. 
Further, the second part of the condition states that the condition applies when problems are 
identified and the policyholder has refused to maintain the property to avoid future loss. 
While AXA has shown there were areas of concern, it has not shown that it raised these with 
Mr L prior to cancelling his policy, as required in the condition. 
In addition, Mr L was taking action to rectify the damp problem identified in the report when 
he found reason to make a claim. So I dont think it would be fair to conclude that he had 
refused to take action to maintain the property, as required in the condition.
And while the pre-purchase survey points out a number of issues it also states as follows:Over the years it has been considerably modernised and improved. Works carried out 
include works to the electrical installation, plumbing, heating and the installation of a good 
fitted kitchen and bathrooms. Most windows renewed. The roof was recovered as described. 
The property is in generally good decorative order throughout. A fairly extensive sum has 
been spent over the last 10 to 15 years.
So while there were some ongoing issues when Mr L bought the property, I dont agree that 
this means it wasnt in a good state of repair. The property had been largely well maintained 
and Mr L had taken further action to address the outstanding issues. 
For these reasons I dont think AXA has acted fairly or reasonably by applying the condition 
in this circumstance. So I will require it to remove any cancellation markers that have been 
registered against Mr L, to put him back into the position he would have been in if it hadnt 
been cancelled. 
I have also considered whether AXA were fair to decline Mr Ls claim. AXA has said that the 
claim wouldnt be covered as the damage was pre-existing. While I agree that the damp 
problem was identified prior to the claim, I dont think AXA has done enough to prove this 
exclusion would apply. The problem that has been identified was due to a well below the 
ground floor. This wasnt identified in the survey and the previous owners were unaware. So 
I dont think Mr L could have reasonably have been aware of the cause of the damage. I 
therefore dont think AXA has acted fairly by declining the claim on this basis. 
For this reason I will require AXA to consider Mr Ls claim in line with the other policy terms 
and conditions.  
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience AXA has caused Mr L. Cancelling his 
policy has meant it has been hard for him to find other insurance, due to the marker on his 
file. This would have been distressing and inconvenient for Mr L. So I agree with our 
investigator that it should pay Mr L £350 compensation to make up for this.   
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
 Remove any cancellation markers registered against Mr L.
 Consider Mr Ls claim in line with the other policy terms and conditions.
 Pay Mr L £350 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman