DRN-4324311
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains about what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited did after it made a claim on its legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2021 N entered into a contract with another business (S) to provide the services 
of an IT Support Technician. The contract was ended early by S. N contacted DAS in 
January 2023 as it wanted legal assistance with a breach of contract claim. DAS said the 
contract was entered into prior to cover being taken out with it and so wasnt covered. 
N complained to us and as part of our investigation provided a policy schedule which 
showed the policy with DAS was taken out prior to it entering into the contract with S.  DAS 
accepted cover was therefore in place but thought the claim was caught by an exclusion in 
the policy for the sale or provision of computer hardware, software, systems or services.
Our investigator agreed that did exclude the claim N was making and thought DAS had 
acted correctly and fairly in turning it down. N didnt agree. It accepted the contract it had 
with S related to the provision of services of an IT support technician. But it didnt accept the 
exclusion DAS had quoted applied to this. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its no longer in dispute N had cover in place with DAS when it entered into the contract with 
S. And the terms and conditions of its legal expenses policy do cover costs and expenses for 
a contractual dispute arising from any agreement or alleged agreement which has been 
entered into by you or on your behalf for the purchase, hire, sale or provision of goods or 
services. As its agreed the contract N had with S was for the provision of services this is 
something the policy could cover. 
But the provision of cover is subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy including 
relevant exclusions. And within the What is not covered section of Contract Disputes the 
policy says it doesnt cover a dispute which arises out of the: sale or provision of computer 
hardware, software, systems or services. 
The question is whether that exclusion applies to the dispute with S which N is seeking cover 
for. I think it does. I can see a Certificate of Insurance issued by Ns broker describes its 
trade or business as Computer Hardware and Software Installation. And the contract it had 
with S says its a contract for services to undertake the Assignment for the Client. The 
Assignment is described in the contract as an IT Support Technician. 
I appreciate the contract doesnt go into detail about how that role is to be performed but I 
dont see how an IT technician could reasonably be regarded as doing anything other than 
providing computer services. In fact, although in its comments N disputed this role was 
caught by the policy exclusion, it also said the contract relates to the provision of services 
as an IT Support Technician. As IT Support Technician to deliver the services of Hardware & 
Software Installation. N goes on to say that as part of providing internet security services in 
that role this involves both Hardware and Software installations to secure the company 
computer systems.
So, on the basis of Ns own description of the work covered by the contract, I think this would 
reasonably fall within the exclusion for the provision of computer hardware, software, 
systems or services. As a result I agree DAS acted correctly and fairly in concluding the 
exclusion applied and there was therefore no cover for the claim N wanted to make. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask N to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman