DRN-4051907
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the way her motor insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI)
dealt with her after she discovered there were errors in her policy documents.
What happened
Mrs W had a motor insurance policy with UKI. Upon checking her account she said she 
discovered that UKI had noted down the wrong registration number for her car. She said she 
had to call several times for this to be rectified.  In September 2022 a week after the policy 
was set up to renew she called to pay for it in full but UKI still took out what would have 
amounted to a monthly payment from her account by direct debit even though it had said 
that the direct debit had been cancelled. Mrs W also noticed that her protected no claims 
bonus (NCB) hadnt been selected on her documents so this also had to be rectified but it 
took several attempts.
UKI issued a final response letter in October 2022 upholding the complaint. It said the direct 
debit had gone live the day before Mrs W called in to pay in full and was therefore too late 
for it to be cancelled. It added that it had refunded the direct debit payment of £36.39 within 
about a week. And it said it had updated Mrs Ws NCB and offered her £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience. It didnt agree to award a further £50, as requested by Mrs W, for the 
multiple calls she made.
UKI refunded the direct debit payment but didnt send the £50 compensation. Mrs W called 
UKI in late January to say she hadnt received the £50. And she also said her protected NCB 
was never added on. Around the same time Mrs W also tried to amend her details online as 
she had bought a new car which she was collecting a few days later. At that point she 
realised that her details were still incorrect from September. She called UKI who updated the 
details and marked her NCB as protected at no extra charge. Mrs W was charged £23.95 to 
update her new car details. 
UKI then reopened the complaint and apologised for the non-payment of the £50 
compensation. It agreed to refund the £23.95 charge for the new car and added a further 
£50 compensation. So in total it paid £123.95. Mrs W was still unhappy as her documents 
were showing her new registration before she had even picked the car up. 
Mrs W then complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said she had to call to 
update her details several times and felt like no one was listening to her. She also wasnt 
happy that her compensation wasnt paid initially. She said she wanted more of an 
acknowledgment of the mistakes UKI made and additional compensation. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought the 
compensation UKI offered was fair in the circumstances. Mrs W didnt agree and asked for 
an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment this may cause, I have decided not to 
uphold it. 
UKI said the reason the direct debit was taken was because it went live the day before 
Mrs W decided to pay for the policy in full and it was too late for it to be cancelled. But a 
refund was issued a week or so later. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Mrs W has provided a screenshot of UKIs online portal which shows the wrong registration 
for her old car. But from what I have seen, the actual policy documents provided by UKI 
dated August and September 2022- so not the information on the portal- show the correct 
registration. So it seems the information was incorrect on the portal but not on the 
documents themselves. So, on balance, I think UKI had insured the correct car. So if Mrs W 
had been stopped by police for any reason, on balance, I think she would have been able to 
provide evidence from UKI that her car was insured.
Mrs W said that her documents showed her new car details before she picked her new car 
up- so they should have still showed her old car registration. But from what I have seen, the 
screenshot provided by Mrs W and also the policy documents issued by UKI show that the 
changes would only become effective from the date she was picking the car up. So I dont 
think UKI made an error in that respect. But I note that the same documents still showed her 
NCB as unprotected.
 
UKI accepted that it didnt pay the initial £50 compensation. It reopened the complaint and 
refunded the £23.95 for the change in car- though it erroneously said this was for the 
protected NCB- and paid a further £50 compensation. I also note that it updated the 
protected NCB at no extra charge. Overall, I appreciate that UKI had made some errors but I 
feel the compensation it has offered is in line what I would have awarded in similar 
circumstances. So I wont ask it to pay any more compensation.
 
I appreciate that Mrs W is frustrated with the way this was all dealt with by UKI- with the 
delay in her documents being updated and with the delay in compensation being issued to 
her. And I appreciate being under the impression that UKI had potentially insured the wrong 
car would have been stressful for Mrs W as, if that had been the case, this could have led to 
her being stopped for driving uninsured. But the matter is that, thankfully, Mrs W wasnt 
stopped for driving uninsured and the administration errors from UKI didnt lead to Mrs W 
being penalised in any way. I cant award compensation for what could have happened but 
for what did happen. And as I said above, in the circumstances, I think the actions UKI took 
to rectify matters and the compensation it paid were sufficient. So I wont be making any 
further awards against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman