DRN-3084409
The complaint
Mr R says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) changed the term of his loan agreement from 
18 to 24 months.
 
What happened
Mr R took out an instalment loan for £1000 from ELL in June 2018. The credit agreement 
shows the term was 24 months, the monthly amount repayable was £101.71 and the total 
repayable was £2441.04. 
Mr R initially also complained about the interest rate and settlement figure. The 
ombudsmans decision of 9 September 2021 set out why this service cannot consider those 
aspects of his complaint.
This decision therefore looks solely at the part of the complaint regarding the term of the 
loan. Our investigator said the signed credit agreement showed the loan was for 24 months 
so the complaint should not be upheld. 
Mr R argues the adviser agreed an 18-month term with him in the branch. His other loan 
from ELL was over 18 months and the signature on this credit agreement does not match 
his. The agreement must have been forged. He asks why the agreement was signed on 
different dates by him (31 May 2018) and the lender (1 June 2018).
The investigator responded to these points saying his previous loan was over 24 months; the 
signatures did not seem significantly different; and the lender had explained the agreement 
was signed by Mr R when he came into the branch to apply, and then by the branch 
manager on the following day after a final review. She explained that Mr Rs allegation of 
forgery would need to be considered by a criminal court. So her conclusion not to uphold the 
complaint remained. 
Mr R remained unhappy with this assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. So it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion and for the same reasons.
The signed credit agreement for this loan clearly sets out that is for a 24-month term. I note 
Mr R argues it is not his signature. I am not a hand-writing expert but, like the investigator, I 
dont find that the signature differs significantly from the one on Mr Rs previous loan 
agreement  which was also over 24 months.  ELL has confirmed a copy of the 
countersigned agreement was sent to Mr R by post. I accept he says he did not receive this, 
but I cant fairly hold the lender liable for the non-receipt. And he could have contacted ELL 
shortly after the start of the loan if he was waiting for the countersigned copy of his 
agreement.
It may well be Mr R and the lender discussed making overpayments, and repaying the loan 
over a shorter term, but from the available evidence I am satisfied Mr R formally agreed to a 
24-month contractual agreement. 
It follows I am not concluding that ELL did anything wrong that it needs to put right. This is 
the final stage of our process so we wont be able to comment further, but as the investigator 
explained if Mr R wants to pursue his claim of forgery he may be able to do so through the 
courts.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman