DRN-2914273
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service received from National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) and that they havent carried out repairs under their Building Warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M purchased a new-build property which came with a ten-year NHBC Building 
Warranty.
There were a number of issues with their home, so they reported them first to the builder and 
later to NHBC. 
NHBC carried out a resolution inspection under section 2 of the warranty  the builders 
warranty period. The resolution report accepted some of the reported issues and told the 
builder to carry out works. But NHBC didnt direct the builder to do anything in relation to a 
number of the reported problems.
Complaints about NHBC were raised and considered by our service previously. In the first 
case, the investigator said it fell outside our jurisdiction as it related to the resolution service 
carried out by NHBC.
A follow-on case was considered about the works NHBC had directed the builder to carry 
out, and whether they should have taken over sooner. In this case the investigator 
suggested NHBC pay additional compensation. 
Following this, Mr and Mrs M raised complaints with NHBC and they issued a final response 
addressing three points, which is what this complaint concerns:
The ascending spindles  NHBC said they shouldve considered these under 
resolution sooner, would do so, and gave £100 compensation for failing to do so
Ground floor newel post  NHBC said theyd already considered this under resolution 
in October 2018 and didnt require further works from the builder
Light pull cord  NHBC said theyd need additional information to consider this 
further, as previous works had been completed
Our investigator looked into these points and issued his assessment. Ultimately, he said:
He couldnt consider the ascending spindles as it didnt fall within our jurisdiction. He 
took into account the resolution report NHBC carried out in July 2020 in relation to 
these, which said the builder didnt need to do anything further
The ground floor newel post was part of a previous resolution report, and this was 
previously looked at and deemed out of jurisdiction by our service. So he said he 
wouldnt be commenting on that
He thought NHBC had acted fairly in relation to the light pull cord, and Mr and Mrs M 
were satisfied with how that part of the claim was being progressed, so he didnt 
suggest NHBC do anything further
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree overall and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only in relation to points two and three above. I considered point one 
separately and wrote to Mr and Mrs M after considering whether we had jurisdiction to look 
at that complaint point. I decided we didnt as it wasnt a regulated activity under the Dispute 
Resolution rules in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook.
So here Im only commenting on point two and three outlined above.
Ground floor newel post
This was previously considered by our service and deemed out of jurisdiction. As its already 
been considered previously, I wont be revisiting that again here.
Light pull cord
The light cord was looked at by NHBC under section two of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. In 
December 2019 a resolution report was carried out and the builder was told they needed to 
take action to remedy the issue by the end of January 2020.
From the information provided, the builder then rectified the problem as directed. But in May 
2020, Mr and Mrs M made NHBC aware that the light pull cord had again become defective. 
NHBC requested more information in order to consider this. They then issued a further 
resolution report in July 2020 asking the builder to fix it by 10 August 2020. Mr and Mrs M 
have said that its not yet been fixed.
As a resolution report was issued, required the builder to do something by a deadline and 
the builder failed to do so, this part of the complaint is in our jurisdiction to consider as it 
becomes a regulated activity under section two of the policy at that stage.
However, Mr and Mrs M have said to our investigator that the contractor hasnt attended due 
to current circumstances. They are satisfied the contractor will attend soon. So with this in 
mind, I dont think NHBC have acted unfairly, as whilst beyond the deadline given to the 
builder NHBC could step in and takeover, there are reasons why the pull cord hasnt been 
fixed yet. And Mr and Mrs M are satisfied with that. So really, there isnt anything more for 
me to decide here as Mr and Mrs M are happy with the current position.
But if Mr and Mrs M feel the builder isnt co-operating, or they decide they are unhappy with 
the timescales for repair, as the deadline set by NHBC has expired, they should contact 
NHBC to explore next steps under their warranty. But as Mr and Mrs M are happy with the 
current position, there isnt anything more Im going to say NHBC needs to do at this stage.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman