DRN-3499013
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc wont refund her after she lost money to a vehicle 
scam.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 27 April 2022. Ive copied the content of that 
document below.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail
here. But briefly, Miss N has explained that in October 2021, she was looking to buy a car
and found one she liked on an online sales platform, advertised for £4,400. Miss N enquired
through the platform and was asked by the respondent to provide her email address for
further contact, which Miss N did.
Miss N began corresponding with an individual who she believed to be a car salesperson but
was in fact a fraudster. The fraudster used what appeared to be a business email address to
discuss the car with Miss N. They explained that the car was acquired at auction from a
bankruptcy. The fraudster said their business didnt offer vehicle inspections but offered a
five day buy-back guarantee if Miss N was unhappy with the car.
Miss N has said she conducted HPI checks on the car which were all clear. She also
checked the business the fraudster purported to be from, which she found to be registered
(the fraudster spoofing a legitimate business). On this basis she agreed to purchase the car.
Miss N was sent a sales contract and told she could pay via online banking or in branch. The
payment details provided were in a business name differing to the one she had been
corresponding with. Miss N said she attended a branch to make the payment as she was
scared to do it online and was unsure about the account details. She said she asked the
branch worker to confirm the account details matched the account, which they did.
Reassured by this, Miss N made the payment.
When the car never arrived, Miss N tried to contact the fraudster but was unable to. At this
point she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Metro to make a claim.
Metro investigated Miss Ns fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Miss N with
a refund. Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Metro says one or more
of those exceptions applies in this case.
Metro has said Miss N made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it
was a genuine payment. Metro considers that Miss N ought to have done more to verify the
legitimacy of the payment before making it based on red flags in the circumstances.
However, Metro did acknowledge it couldve done more to protect Miss N from financial
harm when she attended her branch, so reimbursed her 50% of her losses.
Miss N feels she should be refunded in full so has referred her complaint to us. An
investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. She considered that Miss Ns actions
were reasonable, based on having conducted checks on both the car and spoofed business
and having received legitimate appearing documents. She thought it was reasonable that
Miss N had relied on the buy-back guarantee the fraudster had reassured her with, as a
reason for not viewing the car.
Metro didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. It considered Miss N hadnt done
anything to check the legitimacy of the sale and had trusted everything the seller had said.
The case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont intend to uphold
this complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro
should have fully reimbursed Miss N under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it
ought to have done more to protect Miss N from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Miss N was tricked into making the payment. She thought she
was making a genuine payment to purchase a car and that didnt happen. But this isnt
enough, in and of itself, for Miss N to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code
places a level of care on Miss N too.
The CRM Code
As Ive mentioned, Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Metro to establish that a customer failed to meet their
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish
that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
was legitimate.*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, Metro has now accepted 50% liability of Miss Ns claim to acknowledge it didnt
do enough to protect Miss N. However I think Metro has been able to establish that it may
choose not to fully reimburse Miss N under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one
of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Metro has raised about the
legitimacy of the transaction Miss N made are enough to support its position that she failed
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment she made. I dont
think Miss N had a reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was
legitimate. Ill explain why.
The car Miss N purchased was advertised for £4,400 and Miss N agreed to pay £4,615 to
also cover shipping costs. Having reviewed guides that provide average car sale prices
based on make, model, vehicle age and mileage, this is considerably less than I would
expect - the average sale price for that car being around £14,000. On this basis I think the
price the car was advertised for was too good to be true, even considering the fraudsters
explanation that this was an auction sale. I dont think a car sales business would realistically
sell a car for this much under the retail value for the reasons the fraudster gave Miss N. I
therefore think the price should have raised suspicions with Miss N.
When requesting payment, the fraudsters told Miss N to pay the escrow account of its
company. However the account details it provided were for a different company to who Miss
N had been corresponding with  and from researching the company online, they appear to
be a cleaning company. Miss N has said she did question the fraudster on why she was
paying a different company name and was told they also use this company. However I
havent seen evidence of this so far in the email chains Ive been provided and in any event,
based on the business Miss N paid not being linked to car sales or accounting, I dont think
this response is particularly persuasive to explain the link between the companies.
I appreciate Miss N was told that she couldnt see the car as it was held in Cardiff, although
when reviewing the company details for the legitimate firm that the fraudster spoofed, I can
see its based in the East of England. While I think its fair to accept that buying a car online
has become far more common in recent years, I think its also fair to say that in these
circumstances  particularly where the selling business isnt known to the customer  you
would expect a higher degree of caution on the customers behalf, to ensure that all other
elements of the sale appear legitimate and that any red flags are questioned. In this case, I
think the price of the vehicle, location of the dealership and involvement of a second 
unrelated business were all red flags that Miss N ought to have questioned further before
proceeding with the sale.
Ive thought about the interaction Miss N had with the branch advisor  I understand that
Miss N asked the advisor to check whether the account name and details match, as she was
unsure about the account details and she was told they did. I think this demonstrates Miss N
had some concerns about the payees legitimacy at this point. However, the issue is that this
account name wasnt linked to the seller Miss N had been speaking to, so regardless of
whether the details matched or not, I dont think this should have entirely reassured Miss N
that she was making a legitimate payment.
To summarise, I consider that Miss N ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of
the seller she had contact with. I think that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of
checking on Miss Ns part. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find she had a
reasonable basis for believing the seller was genuine and so fell below the level of careexpected of her under the CRM Code.
As I dont think Miss N met her requisite level of care, and also that Metro couldve done
more to protect Miss N, I think a 50% split of liability is a fair and reasonable outcome for
Miss Ns fraud claim under the CRM code and that Metro shouldnt be held further liable for
Miss Ns losses.
I do sympathise with Miss N as shes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam  and I
understand this outcome will be disappointing for her, being a lesser award than
recommended by the investigator. But the circumstances of the case and the evidence
available lead me to find that she should also be held liable for some of those losses
incurred. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is to not uphold Miss Ns complaint against Metro Bank Plc.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. Metro didnt 
provide any further comments. Miss N disagreed  she didnt consider the price she paid for 
the car was too good to be true and provided three advertisements for similar cars on the 
same online marketplace she used, being advertised for sale between £5,995 and £9,000. 
Miss N also provided advertisements from another online car sales site for cars priced 
between £8,559 and £10,995. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my overall findings on the case havent changed and Im not upholding it. I 
have considered the evidence Miss N has provided, but it doesnt persuade me to reach a 
different outcome.
When assessing the value of Miss Ns car, I used guides that pull together nationwide sale 
prices of vehicles (rather than asking prices on advertisements). The guides also factor in 
the date Miss N actually made the payment and match the exact specifications of the car 
Miss N intended to buy, including aspects such as engine size, and manufacturing year, in 
order to gain the most accurate average price.
I appreciate Miss N has found some advertisements lower than my guide valuation  
however these are all still notably higher than the price she paid. Having viewed these sites 
myself, I dont consider these advertisements to be representative of the general cost of this 
car, being among the cheapest advertised nationwide. Theres also no way of verifying 
whether these adverts were also posted by genuine sellers or not, whereas the guides Ive 
used are based on actual sales.
For these reasons I remain of the view that Metros assessment of Miss Ns fraud claim 
under the CRM Code is fair, so Im not asking Metro to make any further payment to Miss N.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint against Metro Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman