DRN-3245028
The complaint
Miss G complained that she paid in £290 in cash at a branch of Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax. But she later found out that only £90 had been credited.
What happened
On 23 November 2020, Miss G went into a Halifax branch. She says she paid in £290 in 
cash at the counter.
In early December, Miss G received her monthly statement, and she saw that only £90 had 
been credited. She complained to Halifax on 4 December.
Halifax investigated, but didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. In its final response letter, it said it 
had contacted the branch manager for more information. A balance check had been made 
on he till on 23 November, and subsequent days.  On every occasion, the till had balanced 
and there wasnt any money left over. Halifax explained that if there had been an imbalance, 
it would have shown on the report either on 23 November, or when the till machine had next 
been emptied.
Miss G wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told our investigator that Halifax 
had made a mistake about an outgoing payment not long before this incident. That had been 
put right, but Miss G thought Halifax could have made another mistake. She told the 
investigator that the cashier had been busy talking, and had seemed distracted, when shed 
paid in her money. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. She said that Halifax had provided us with 
evidence of when the tills were checked, and there hadnt been any shortage or surplus on 
23 November. So she said she couldnt find that Halifax had acted incorrectly.
Miss G didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the cashier could 
have given someone else £200 extra for all she knew, and that person wouldnt have said 
anything. Miss G said that the cashier had not only lost her the missing £200, but as it meant 
she couldnt pay her rent, her landlord had increased her rent by £30 each month. Miss G 
said there was CCTV at the tills, and if Halifax looked at those, it would see what shed 
handed over. She said the cashier had been too busy chatting to other staff and hadnt been 
doing her job. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant tell for certain what happened, because I wasnt present.  When this happens, I take 
my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened, taking into account all the 
circumstances of the case. And although Miss G has recently suggested that Halifax should 
look at CCTV, I think its very unlikely that any CCTV would still be available now. But it 
might not have made a difference anyway, because I think its unlikely that it would have 
been focused clearly on the amount of cash handed over. Halifax was also under no 
obligation to look at CCTV as part of its investigation, when it had a more persuasive record 
of what happened. 
Here, the independent factual evidence comes from the machinery at the cashiers till. These 
are called Teller Cash Recyclers, and the machines count the cash put into, and taken out 
of, them. At the end of each day, if the till doesnt balance, its recorded on the branchs log 
of cash shortages or cash overs. 
Ive looked at the cash logs for the period including 23 November. There are no entries for 
23 November on either the cash shortages, or cash overs.  
Ive also seen the sheet which records what happened next time the till machine was 
emptied completely and physically counted. These checks have to be done with a set 
frequency, and the one Ive seen covered 23 November. Its signed by two employees. One 
of the categories on this sheet is Cash differences and this records that there were no 
cash differences.
So the technical evidence indicates that the till machine, which counts the cash when a 
cashier puts it in, balanced.
I recognise that Miss G said that she thought Halifax might have made another mistake, as it 
had made a mistake with an outgoing payment on her account shortly before 23 November. I 
dont have full details of what happened then, because it was resolved. But an outgoing 
electronic payment is very different from incoming cash handed over at a till, and I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the two issues are likely to be linked here.
Miss G has also suggested that the cashier might have given her £200 to another customer 
and that customer didnt say anything. Ive considered that here, but I think thats unlikely 
because, looking at this impartially, theres simply no evidence to suggest that this is what 
happened. Given the fact that all the banks systems and records balanced, I think its most 
likely that the money was correctly counted and paid.
Im sorry that Miss G feels that she lost out when she paid money in. But from the 
independent machine evidence, theres nothing to indicate that there was any cash over that 
day. So I think the most likely explanation is that Miss G was mistaken about how much she 
paid in. I can see that Miss G pays cash into her account quite often, and she may find it 
useful in future to ask for a receipt, or a mini-statement, whenever she pays money in.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman