DRN-2891768
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint about Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) relates to a fixed sum loan he took 
out with them in 2017 and which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr P signed a three-year loan agreement with Hitachi for £3,000 on 10 October 2017. The 
interest was calculated up front and added to the amount borrowed with repayments being 
spread over three years. The monthly repayments were £142.74 per month. Mr P said at the 
time he had several other loans with other companies and feels Hitachi shouldnt have 
granted him the loan as it was unaffordable.
Hitachi said that when Mr P made his application they searched his credit record to check 
his borrowing history; how much he owed and how often he applied for credit; whether he 
made repayments on time, and whether he had any defaults or CCJs. In addition, Hitachi 
said they used other information he provided, such as his income, to calculate an overall 
score which in his case positively exceeded their lending criteria. Hitachi felt it had done 
sufficient checks to ensure the loan was affordable and didnt think it had done anything 
wrong.
Mr P was unhappy with Hitachis final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into the complaint and also 
thought Hitachi hadnt done anything wrong. He did however think that it could have asked 
for three months of bank statements before making its lending decision and it could have 
verified Mr Ps rent payments, but still thought that even if it had done that it would still have 
shown the loan was affordable.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ps complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I consider 
whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that their borrower would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. And if reasonable 
and proportionate checks werent carried out, I think about whether the loan wouldve been 
approved if the checks had been done. I also consider if the lending decision was fair and if 
the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. In this complaint a copy of Mr Ps 
full credit file from October 2017 hasnt been provided  so Ive had to use the limited 
information I do have. That means I have to consider what I think is most likely to have been 
the situation at the time.
In my provisional decision I asked the parties if they had anything further they wished to add, 
and Hitachi relied to say it didnt. Mr P replied disagreeing with my provisional decision and 
pointing to the volume of gambling transactions on his bank statements and asking how 
Hitachi missed those. I addressed what Hitachi were required to consider in my provisional 
decision and there was no requirement on them to obtain his Mr Ps statements. As I have 
said below, Hitachi was entitled to rely on the information from Mr P and the credit check it 
carried out, so I dont see that it acted unfairly in not getting the bank statements.
Mr P has commented that some of his other complaints have been upheld but I cant 
comment on those other complaints because I do not know the circumstances and they are 
separate and aside from this complaint. My role is to look at the facts of this complaint and 
make my decision based on those facts, which is what I have done. So, having considered 
Mr Ps further comments there is nothing within them that causes me to alter my provisional 
view, which I now repeat below.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance at the time Mr P took this loan in 2017 
can be found in the FCA handbook at the section marked [CONC 5.2]. This says that before 
making a regulated credit agreement (as was the case here) a business such as Hitachi was 
required to undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness of its customer. That meant 
Hitachi was required to consider;
the potential that the loan commitment could adversely impact on Mr Ps financial 
situation taking into account the information of which it was aware at the time, and 
the ability of Mr P to make repayments as they fell due over the life of the loan. 
Further, the assessment had to be based on sufficient information from the customer where 
appropriate and a credit reference agency, where necessary.
CONC 5.2.4(2) provided that a business should consider what is appropriate taking into 
account the type and amount of the credit and the risks to the customer of the credit not 
being sustainable. And CONC 5.2.4(3) gives an indication of what a lender might (my 
emphasis) look at in its creditworthiness assessment depending on the circumstances, 
which could include some or all of the following:-
its record of previous dealings; 
evidence of income; 
evidence of expenditure; 
a credit score; 
a credit reference agency report; and 
information provided by the customer.
The circumstances which arise in Mr Ps case are as follows: 
Mr P wanted a modest fixed sum loan of £3,000 over a period of 3 years with an interest rate 
of 23.8%. The monthly repayments were £142.74 and the total amount repayable over the 
term was £5,138.64.
When Mr P submitted his application, he declared he was working full time and had an 
income of between £15,000 - £20,000 per annum and had been with the same employer for 
just over 7 years.Hitachi validated that with a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) and then went on to estimate 
that his net monthly income would be £1,286. This appears to be, broadly, using the mid-
point of the income range Mr P told Hitachi about. I think that was a reasonable approach by 
Hitachi. Mr P has provided bank statements for the three months prior to his loan which 
actually show a better financial picture at the time of his application, with an average of 
£1,355.54, although Hitachi didnt ask for these at that time. 
Hitachi said the information from the credit file didnt show that Mr P had any previous or 
current financial stress. Further there is nothing on the credit file to show Mr P had any 
missed payments, defaults or County Court Judgments.
Hitachi estimated Mr Ps rent payments were £447.84, which they then halved to take 
account of his partner. Mr P confirmed to our investigator that his rent was about £555 per 
month when the average was taken over the months July to October.
Mr Ps credit record, which Hitachi looked at, revealed he did have existing credit with an 
overall balance of £800 and monthly repayments of £378.14 per month. I cannot say what 
the overall balance was from the additional documentation Mr P has provided since there is 
no information in that regard, but what can be seen from the statements is that Mr P was 
paying around £34 less than recorded on the credit report. This is because he was paying 
around £345 per month to other creditors. I think on balance it is more likely than not that Mr 
Ps overall debt at the time of his application to Hitachi was around £800  certainly that is 
what the available evidence points to.
When Hitachi assessed whether the loan was affordable they reached the conclusion that Mr 
P had £541 per month for other expenses, beyond his rent and financial commitments. 
Having looked at his bank statements this figure changes to £313 per month. The reason for 
the difference is because when Hitachi considered Mr Ps rent commitment the model it 
used was to take a regional average. I dont think thats unreasonable. But Hitachi then 
ascribed only half of the rent to him as he had a partner. Ive considered whether Hitachi 
should have asked Mr P what his rent payment actually was at the time but applying the 
applicable guidance of the time I dont think this was a requirement. 
And Ive also thought about what the position might have been if Hitachi had found the 
correct information about Mr Ps rent payments. Would this have significantly changed 
Hitachis decision to offer credit? I dont think so. Mr P still had some disposable income. 
Deciding whether the amount left is sufficient is almost always going to be a subjective 
assessment. 
But  based on the information from Mr P and its own assessment process  I think it is 
more likely than not that Hitachi would have given Mr P a loan of £3,000 as it appeared to be 
affordable. And Im satisfied that there arent any other reasonably proportionate checks 
Hitachi could have carried out when considering whether to grant a loan of £3,000 over a 3-
year term. 
Mr P has raised the issue of his gambling and Ive looked at his bank statements and I can 
see he had a considerable number of online betting transactions prior to taking this loan. But 
Hitachi didnt know this, and Mr P didnt tell them about his gambling so they couldnt have 
known. I accept that Mr Ps financial position may well have been worse than the credit 
check showed or that any information he disclosed to Hitachi at the time showed. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Hitachi this. But Hitachi was entitled reasonably 
entitled to rely on the information from Mr P and the credit check it carried out at the time. 
Given there wasnt any adverse information shown on the credit check, or significant 
outstanding debts elsewhere and the amount of credit being advanced was relatively low, I 
think Hitachis checks went far enough. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman