DRN-3112890
The complaint
Miss B complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited treated her unfairly when they 
didnt accept a mid-term adjustment on her motor policy. 
Miss B is being represented by Mr B but for ease of reading Ill refer to Miss B throughout. 
What happened
Miss B arranged the policy through a broker. In 2020, she purchased another vehicle as her 
insured vehicle had faults. She contacted the broker to make a mid-term adjustment to 
change the insured vehicle to the one she purchased. 
Markerstudy didnt accept the mid-term adjustment and said the vehicle Miss B purchased 
wasnt an acceptable risk based on their underwriting criteria. 
Miss B couldnt understand why. She said the vehicles were similar and the policy enabled 
her to make changes to it. She also said a broker obtained a new quote with Markerstudy to 
insure the vehicle she purchased, so she didnt accept Markerstudys decision that they were 
unable to accept the mid-term adjustment on her existing policy. So, she complained. 
Miss B also felt the policy was mis-sold as she was unable to make this adjustment mid-
term. And this was important to her as she said her insured vehicle was old with high 
mileage, so it was more likely than not the policy would need adjusting mid-term. Miss B also 
said Markerstudy should have made their underwriting conditions clearer at the point of sale 
so she could have made an informed decision. 
Markerstudy responded to the complaint but maintained theyd applied their underwriting 
criteria fairly. 
Miss B remained unhappy and felt Markerstudy had unfairly forced her to cancel the policy 
which only had a few months left to run. And if she cancelled it, she would have lost her no 
claims discount for the year. 
Miss B didnt cancel the policy as she was waiting for Markerstudy to answer the complaint. 
She took out a separate policy for the vehicle she purchased and thinks Markerstudy should 
compensate her for the way they treated her, and because she was left out of pocket. So, 
she approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said 
Markerstudy provided evidence to show they wouldnt have accepted Miss Bs purchased 
vehicle as an acceptable risk on the existing policy. He also didnt think they were required to 
share their underwriting criteria with Miss B as this is commercially sensitive information and 
used to assess whether a risk is acceptable under a policy. Therefore, our investigator 
wasnt persuaded Miss B had been treated unfairly, or differently to other customers, by 
Markerstudy. 
Miss B disagreed. She said Markerstudy were required to provide her with clear information 
so she could make an informed decision when taking out the policy. And had she known 
about this underwriting condition; she wouldnt have taken it out. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide the case, so its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I appreciate this will come to disappoint Miss B, so Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, Ive seen Miss Bs policy schedule which says it was arranged through a broker. 
Therefore, the policy wasnt sold by Markerstudy. As such I am unable to consider a mis-
sale complaint against Markerstudy as they arent responsible for the sale. I appreciate this 
will disappoint Miss B as Ive seen she feels strongly the policy was mis-sold and doesnt 
think she was provided with clear information to make an informed decision when taking it 
out. 
Markerstudy were, however, responsible for the decision not to accept the mid-term 
adjustment. So, Ive gone onto consider this aspect of the complaint. 
Miss B thinks shes been treated unfairly, and I do understand why. Namely, she said the 
two vehicles were similar and the policy says she can make this adjustment mid-term. She 
also said a broker was able to obtain a new quote from Markerstudy for a new policy, so I 
accept why she was frustrated with their decision not to adjust her existing policy. 
Particularly given her existing policy only had a few months left to run  and cancelling it 
would have resulted in her losing her no claims discount for the year. 
Having said that, whilst I understand why Miss B thinks the replacement vehicle should have 
been accepted as an acceptable risk, I am unable to tell an insurer what risks they should 
cover. 
Underwriting criteria is used by insurers to determine whether a risk presented by a 
customer or potential customer is something theyre prepared to cover. Each insurer will 
have their own criteria depending on their risk appetite, and different policies may also 
include specific criteria  as it did in Miss Bs case. 
I do take Miss Bs point that this information is very important, but ultimately, its for an 
insurer to determine whether theyre prepared to accept a risk presented based on their own 
underwriting criteria. And underwriting criteria is not only intended for this purpose, but to 
also ensure customers are treated in the same way. And I wouldnt expect such sensitive, 
commercial information to be disclosed by an insurer to a policyholder. 
When a broker was able to obtain a new quote using Miss Bs information and the 
purchased vehicle, with Markerstudy, I accept this would have been frustrating for her. All 
Miss B wanted to do was change the vehicle on the policy so it would run for the full term to 
gain another years no claims discount. And knowing Markerstudy would have offered cover 
on a new policy  but didnt accept to adjust the existing policy  would have been both 
frustrating and confusing. 
Insurance brokers will obtain different quotes for customers and different policies may or 
may not include a scheme which requires specific criteria to be met  as it did on Miss Bs 
existing policy. So, whilst I accept why Miss B feels unfairly treated, Im not satisfied, by a 
broker obtaining a new quote for a new policy, demonstrates Markerstudy treated her 
unfairly here. Rather, Markerstudy considered that the mid-term adjustment Miss B requested on her existing policy didnt meet the criteria required. As above, its reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on their own underwriting criteria to decide whether a risk is one theyre 
prepared to cover. And I havent been persuaded they treated Miss B unfairly here or any 
differently to other customers. So, I wont be directing Markerstudy to do anything differently. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss B. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve her dispute with Markerstudy  can do for her.  
My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman