DRN-4196547
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc wont provide a partial refund of a payment he made 
to a plumber. Hes also unhappy with the service he received.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In December 2022 Mr W contacted a 
plumber for help with a problem in his bathroom. Ive summarised Mr Ws account of what 
happened below:
He paid the plumber £108 to come to his house on 8 December 2022. The plumber said that 
four hours work was required to remedy the problem and Mr W paid a further £258 as a 
deposit with a final payment (again of £258) to be due upon completion of the four hours 
work. Mr W says the plumber attended on 12 December 2022 but the work took five hours 
and this included two trips to obtain parts which he believes the plumber should have had 
from the start. 
Mr W complained to the plumbers manager who offered a 30 minute reduction from a future 
job. Mr W remained unhappy with this and ultimately, the plumber debited £346.34 instead 
of the £258 that Mr W expected. 
Mr W says as he paid using his debit card, he should be protected and expects Santander to 
refund the difference of around £88. Mr W says he contacted Santander using the free 
phone number on the reverse of his debit card, but he was directed to call again on a 
number that incurred a cost. 
When he spoke to Santander he says he was told that although the payment had been 
authorised, it hadnt yet debited his account and so a dispute couldnt be raised at that time. 
He says he was also advised he could avoid incurring call costs by calling from a branch. 
When Mr W did attend a branch, having checked that the payment had debited his account, 
he says there was no phone available for him to use. He also says he had to queue for a 
long time and that the staff couldnt help him resolve his issue, again directing him to call. 
Ultimately the matter was referred to our service and we let Santander know about Mr Ws 
complaint. Santander responded and said they were sorry if Mr W had had a bad 
experience. But they said their call handler was correct to say that a dispute cant be raised 
until a payment has debited. And if Mr W were to contact them to provide the details they 
require, they would be happy to look further into this for him. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In a broad 
summary he didnt think Santander had treated Mr W unfairly. Mr W strongly disagrees and 
has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr W is unhappy with Santander for a variety of reasons. But this decision is 
solely about his complaint about the payment to the plumber in December 2022. I appreciate 
Mr W is also unhappy with our service and the fact that his complaints arent all being looked 
at together. But that isnt something I will comment on here, we have a separate process for 
complaints about our service which I believe Mr W is aware of and has engaged with. 
Mr W doesnt seem to disagree that he authorised a payment to the plumber. The issue 
appears to be the amount that was taken, and the quality of the work done. I dont think 
Santander acted unreasonably when treating this as an authorised payment, which means I 
wouldnt expect them to provide a refund or partial refund because of that. And Im not 
persuaded that Mr W was the victim of a scam where the intention was to defraud him from 
the start. I agree that this seems to be a dispute between Mr W and the plumber. So, the 
only way in which Santander would be able to potentially assist in these circumstances is 
through the chargeback scheme. 
The chargeback scheme doesnt guarantee a refund, but it is a process that can provide 
resolution in certain circumstances. Santander dont have to raise a chargeback, but Id 
generally consider it good practice that they do where there is a reasonable chance of it 
succeeding. Santander said that if Mr W contacts them, they would look into this further, but 
they will need certain documents as evidence. And I think thats fair. I dont think its 
unreasonable for Santander to ask Mr W for documentary evidence that might be required to 
support his chargeback claim. And whilst I have sympathy with Mr W stating that Santander 
are asking him for documents he doesnt have, this doesnt mean they are acting unfairly. As 
Ive mentioned, the documentary requirements are part of the chargeback scheme and 
without them, there is little prospect of a claim succeeding. 
I cant comment on how Mr W has been treated by the plumber as I have no jurisdiction to 
do so. But it is reasonable for Santander to ask for evidence before deciding whether or not 
to make a chargeback claim on Mr Ws behalf. I also dont think Santander were wrong not 
to start this process before the payment had debited the account. Pending or authorised 
payments sometimes dont end up posting to an account. And until they do so, there isnt 
anything to dispute.  
I also dont think that Santander provided poor service to the extent that a compensation 
award is appropriate. It is a commercial decision for Santander as to whether to provide a 
free phone number. And they also cant control how busy a particular branch is at any given 
time. Its unfortunate the branch Mr W attended didnt have a phone he could use and that 
he felt he had to wait a long time to see staff who ultimately couldnt help him. But Im not 
persuaded this is something Santander need to pay compensation for. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman