DRN-1463471
The complaint
Ms P has complained about advice she received in 1989 from Rathods Insurance Service 
to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).
What happened
Ms P met with a representative from Rathods in March 1989. The paperwork from the time 
of the sale confirms that she was 33 years old and employed. She was earning £7300 per 
annum.
Ms P received advice to contract out of SERPS via a personal pension plan with a provider, 
from here on referred to as Firm A. The plan was set up and National Insurance rebates that 
were redirected from SERPS, starting from the 1987/88 tax year. 
Mrs N complained to our service about the sale of the plan in 2019. After contacting Firm A it 
was determined that the plan had been sold by Rathods. 
One of our investigators attempted to obtain information from Rathods but the former 
partnership dissolved in 2004, and the partners havent been able to deal with the complaint. 
However, the investigator was satisfied that hed received enough information from Firm A to 
consider the complaint. And having reviewed the available information, he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ms P didnt agree with the investigators conclusion so the matter has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract out, incentives were offered to 
encourage them to do so. No guidance was given on who should be advised to remain in 
SERPS or on the type of person who would benefit from contracting out. So pension 
providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS with 
those from alternative personal pension arrangements. The calculations were based on what 
were felt to be conservative assumptions of future investment returns at the time.
The rebates paid by the government for those who contracted out were set in such a 
way that it was more attractive for younger people to contract out than those who were older. 
The ages where advice changed about whether to contract out or not were called pivotal 
ages.Firm A estimated that by the time a female policyholder had reached 37 the amount of the 
rebate might be insufficient for the personal pension plan to provide a pension comparable to 
that provided by SERPS. Contributions to a contracted-out plan are single payments 
representing redirected National Insurance contributions for an entire tax year. Ms P was 
under the pivotal age at the time she contracted out. Further, her recorded earnings were in 
excess of the lower earnings limit at that time of £2,132. On the conservative assumptions 
used at the time of the advice, it was therefore anticipated that she would be better off at 
retirement having contracted out of SERPS. 
Ms P contracted-out in 1989 and these matters should be considered in the light of what was 
considered reasonable at the time. I can understand that she may be disappointed that the 
actual investment returns from her contracted-out pension plan have been lower than 
expected. But, given Ms Ps circumstances and on the basis that the assumptions were 
considered to be reasonable at the time, contracting out of SERPS would have appeared to 
provide a reasonable prospect of providing better benefits at retirement age. So I am not 
satisfied that the arrangement was inappropriate. Accordingly, having carefully considered 
all the circumstances, I have not been persuaded that Ms Ps complaint should succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept 
or reject my decision before XXXXX.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman