DRN-2177232
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) applied the 
wrong promotional offer to his credit card and failed to inform him of the change in the 
promotional offer expiry date.
What happened
Mr B was an existing credit card customer with Barclays and says that after being made 
aware of a promotional offer available to new customers he spoke with Barclays staff who 
suggested he closed his existing credit card and  in a few months time, apply for a new card 
to take advantage of the promotional offer. 
Mr B says he applied online to open a new account in April 2017 and took advantage of the 
promotional offer which he understood to expire in May 2020. In November 2019 Mr B 
discovered that he had been charged interest from January 2019. Mr B complained to 
Barclays .
Barclays says that while they accept, they didnt send a formal notification of the expiry of 
the promotional offer this was detailed on his monthly credit card statements. Barclays did 
accept they gave poor customer service and offered Mr B a goodwill offer to reflect this but 
say that the promotional offer was applied in line with their terms and conditions. Barclays 
also say that promotional offers in marketing emails do not constitute a formal offer. 
Mr B was unhappy with Barclays view and referred the matter to this service .
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint . 
The investigator says that  :
 A promotional email doesnt constitute a formal offer. 
 Mr B was sent monthly statements which outlined the promotional offer terms.
 The promotional offer and the terms and conditions of the credit card was made clear 
at the time of the application.
 Barclays good will payment  and interest adjustment offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators view and has asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would be upsetting for Mr B to find out he had been charged interest 
on his credit card account when he believed an interest free promotional offer available to 
him. So, when looking at this complaint I have considered if Barclays made Mr B aware of 
the terms applying to the promotional interest rate on his credit card account.
What happened here was Mr B wanted to consolidate various debts onto a single credit card 
and benefit from an interest free promotional offer he had seen available for Barclays 
customers. When Mr B spoke to Barclays, they explained this was only available to new 
customers and if he wanted an offer like this, he would need to close his credit card account 
and reapply some time later.
Mr B then reapplied for a new card in April 2017 on the understanding he was applying for 
an interest free promotional offer lasting 36 months, as he had previously discussed with a 
member of staff at Barclays. In November 2019 Mr B noticed that he had been charged 
interest from January 2019 and queried this with Barclays, who told him his promotional offer 
had expired in December 2018. 
Mr B says that he wasnt made aware of the promotional offer as he never received any 
details of the terms and conditions of the credit card account,  nor was he informed at any 
time when the offer was due to expire. 
I have considered the points that Mr B raises here, as they are central to this complaint. 
Mr B applied for the credit card online and from the information made available to this 
service Mr B clicked on check now to confirm he had read and agreed to the terms and 
conditions, so I am satisfied he had the opportunity at this stage to understand the terms 
applying to the credit card. It has also been established that while Mr B thought he was 
applying for a 36-month interest free period, this cannot be guaranteed and will depend on 
Barclays assessment at the time of the application and any discussions held with Barclays 
staff previously about promotional offers would be subject to an application being made.  I 
have also been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions of the card that was sent to 
Mr B when he received the credit card by post, along with a welcome booklet. The terms and 
condition detail the promotional offer and show that Mr Bs offer expired in December 2018. 
These documents are issued as standard by Barclays when they send out new credit cards 
and as Mr B received the credit card, I am satisfied, on balance, he would have received 
these documents at the same time. 
Its worth noting that in addition to this, Mr B was sent monthly electronic credit card 
statements which clearly show the promotional offer term ended in December 2018. Mr B 
says he had no reason to read these statements as he didnt use the credit card. While Mr B 
says this, it is his responsibility to read and understand his monthly statements and to have 
read the terms and conditions applying to the card and promotional offer when he accepted 
these at the application stage and when these were subsequently sent to him when the card 
was issued.
Following this, I am satisfied Barclays did make Mr B aware of the terms of the promotional 
offer here.
Mr B says he had opted out of marketing communication on his account, this has been 
confirmed by Barclays. However, Barclays are obliged to send details of any changes to his 
account, including interest rate changes or changes to his terms and conditions. These are 
sent electronically, and Barclays have confirmed the last one he was sent was on 3 October 
2019.
Mr B says that Barclays should have let him know when the promotional offer on his credit card was due to expire and Barclays says that while they would have sent this by way of 
email, their records for this have expired and they are unable to provide a copy of the email . 
As a result of this Barclays have paid Mr B £125  plus three  months interest for the period 
between September and November 2019.
I feel that this is a fair offer given that even though Barclays believe they had sent this 
notification in line with their normal process, because they couldnt retrieve the actual 
communication, they made this offer as a gesture of goodwill.  Barclays like many banks will 
send  further communications to customers to remind them when a promotional offer is 
about to expire, but even if they hadnt, I am satisfied their responsibility here had already 
been met by the sending of monthly electronic statements.
I am satisfied that the payment already made to Mr B by Barclays for the trouble and upset 
caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. While Mr B will be disappointed with my 
decision  it follows, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman