DRN-3104618
The complaint
Mr B complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S Bank) failed to honour a 
claim he brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr B is 
represented by a claims management company. When I refer to things said or done by Mr B 
in relation to the complaint then this should be taken to include things said or done by his 
claims management company also.
What happened
The background to the matter is well known to all parties so I will provide a brief summary:
Mr B had a membership with a holiday club which he wished to terminate.  In 
November 2016 he entered into a contract with another company I will call R. It said 
it would arrange for Mr B to be released from his membership with the club and claim 
compensation for the mis-selling of the membership.
Mr B paid R £5,700 towards the contract with £1,000 paid on 3 December 2017 using 
his M&S Bank credit card to a company I will call MRL. The remainder was paid by 
bank transfer on 21 December 2016. The contract guaranteed that R would achieve 
the release of Mr B from his membership within 12 months of 3 December 2016.
R failed to arrange for Mr B to be released from his membership with C, and 
subsequently went into liquidation in May 2018. 
Mr B brought a claim against M&S Bank under s 75 of the CCA in January 2019 via 
his claims management company.
M&S Bank investigated the matter and didnt agree Mr B had a valid claim under s 75 
of the CCA. It said that because he had paid MRL, and not R, the necessary debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement wasnt in place for him to be able to make a 
claim. Mr B was unhappy with this decision and complained, but M&S Bank rejected 
his complaint. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. it. It was upheld originally, but after further research our investigator 
concluded M&S Bank had been right to say Mr B didnt have a valid claim under s 75 
CCA, because MRL had taken the credit card payments instead of R.
Our investigator investigated whether there were any exceptions which meant this 
might not matter, but he couldnt find any. She also thought about whether M&S Bank 
should have charged back the credit card transactions but concluded the bank had 
been out of time to do so at the point it had been made aware of the issue.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card 
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for 
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via which they can assist. If 
a credit card has been used, as in this case, s 75 CCA gives a legal right to the account 
holder to claim against their credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by the supplier, so long as certain technical criteria have been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can use the 
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the 
money paid on the card. This can be done only in certain scenarios and only so long as the 
dispute fits within the rules set out by the card scheme. This includes scenarios where goods 
or services have not been received, and the process of disputing payments in this way is 
generally known as a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their card issuer 
attempts a chargeback, I would expect the issuer to attempt one if there was a reasonable 
prospect of the process succeeding, and to conduct the chargeback process in a competent 
way, free of errors.
The Section 75 claim
I dont think Mr B had a valid section 75 claim against M&S Bank for essentially the same 
reasons our investigator explained. I dont think his claim meets one of the key criteria I 
referred to above.
The criterion in question is the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement in place. The 
simplest explanation of this is, is that when someone makes a payment on their credit card, 
in order to be able to make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they need to 
have used the credit card to pay the same company they say misrepresented something to 
them, or breached its contract with them. Mr B didnt pay R, which is the company he has a 
problem with. Instead, his credit card payments went to MRL.
There are some exceptions to this general rule. The first exception occurs where the 
company which is responsible for the breach or misrepresentation (the supplier) is an 
associate of the company which received the credit card payment (the payee), at the time 
the payment is made. This doesnt mean an associate in the everyday sense of being linked 
in some way or another; the companies have to be associates according to a very specific 
definition which is set out in section 184 of the CCA.
According to section 184 of the CCA, in order for companies to be associates they need to 
be controlled by the same people, or by people who are themselves associates of one 
another. People are associates of one another if they are relatives, or if they are in 
partnership (for example, being directors together at another company). A person would be 
in control of a company if they are a person whose instructions will normally be followed by 
the officers of the company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more of voting power 
at any general meeting of the company. In general, I would view a company director or 
majority shareholder to fall into these categories. Being based at the same or a similar 
business address, as Mr B has claimed, would not be enough to make two companies 
associates.
Ive carefully considered whether R and MRL were associates at the time of Mr Bs credit card payment, by checking publicly available information about the companies. A Mr K was a 
controller of R between 1 April 2016 and 1 December 2016, while an associate of his (a Mr 
U) controlled MRL. This means the companies themselves were associates during this time 
window. Mr K gave up his shareholding in R from 1 December 2016 and I cannot see that he 
was a controller of the company from that point on. Mr B has cast some doubts on the 
Companies House filings which show Mr K giving up his shares on 1 December 2016. 
The records were filed late and Mr B thinks Mr K controlled R for longer than the records 
say. But I think this is speculative without further evidence that the records filed with 
Companies House are not an accurate representation of what happened and when. In the 
absence of convincing evidence to the contrary, I conclude Mr K was no longer a controller 
of R from 1 December 2016.
I have noted that Mr B signed the agreement in November, but as he didnt make payment 
until after 1 December there was no DCS agreement in place during the period when Mr A 
was a controller of R.  
I note there is also an outstanding debenture in Mr Ks favour, granted by R, dating back to 
January 2016. Mr B has suggested this means he controls the company. I dont agree. All 
this shows is that Mr K had agreed to lend money to R on a secured basis and this has not 
yet been repaid.
Because Mr Bs credit card payments were made outside of the window in which R and MRL 
were associates, this means the exception doesnt apply in his case.
There is another exception which was identified in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred 
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB). The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor 
trader as a client. The solicitors took credit card payments from customers of the motor 
trader, which had no facility to take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which the 
customers had ordered. The court found that the contractual arrangements between the 
motor trader and the solicitors were adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme 
through the transactions processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore 
mean there was a DCS agreement in place.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that the above conclusion couldnt be applied 
in all cases as a general principle, and that there were problems with establishing where the 
line should be drawn between scenarios where the supplier could be linked to the card 
scheme, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw this conclusion.
The judge noted that the problem would need to be resolved on a case by case basis, and 
that the precise contractual arrangements between the parties would determine whether 
the creditor had liability under section 75.
A later case in the County Court, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], clarified 
that in the absence of knowledge of the precise contractual arrangements between the 
company which was meant to supply the services or goods under the contract, and the 
payee, that the involvement of the payee in the provision of the goods or services could be 
enough to link the supplier to the card scheme and for a DCS agreement to exist.
In Mr Bs case, not much is known about the precise contractual arrangements between R, 
which was the supplier of the services, and MRL, which was the payee. Its clear that MRL 
took payments for Rs customers and that this was an established practice, as Ive seen 
evidence that R required its salespeople to tell customers that the name of MRL or another 
company might appear on their statements.There is some evidence that a company in the group to which MRL belonged, acted as Rs 
accountants. We have tried to find out more from this group of companies, and the relevant 
liquidators. Unfortunately, we have not received information which helps to clarify what the 
arrangements were between the companies. In Alfred Truman the court had a much more 
complete picture of the nature of the arrangements between the parties and had the benefit 
of direct evidence from the payee. Here I dont have nearly as much information and I feel 
unable to conclude that R was linked to the card scheme via its arrangements with MRL, on 
the evidence available to me.
Ive considered whether the case of Marshall might be applicable to Mr Bs case, but Ive 
seen no evidence that it would be because it doesnt appear MRL was involved in the 
provision of the timeshare release or compensation claim services Mr B had contracted with 
R for.
I have also noted Mr Bs point that there was link between MRL and another company I will 
call MRTP, but the payment was processed by MRL and I can only consider the link 
between R and MRL. Nor can I presume there was a link because the different companies 
operated from the same building or close by. The location of a business is not one of the 
criteria I can consider under s 184 CCA.
In light of the above, I conclude there was no valid DCS agreement in place to allow Mr B to 
make a section 75 claim against M&S Bank. I therefore dont think the bank was wrong to 
reject his claim. Ive thought about the arguments Mr Ss representatives have raised in 
response to our investigators assessment, but they dont change my view. I appreciate the 
frustration with the situation but I cannot require M&S Bank to pay out money where a claim 
falls outside the terms of s 75 CCA.
Chargeback
The CMC hasnt queried our investigators opinion on whether or not it was possible for M&S 
Bank to have attempted a chargeback on either of the credit card transactions.
I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached on this question. This is because the 
rules applicable to chargebacks impose a deadline of 120 days from the point that the 
cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services.
Like our investigator I have noted from the Terms and Conditions of the contract - that R 
confirmed the relinquishment would be achieved within 12 months of the date of the 
agreement which would have been November 2018. So, M&S Bank couldnt have been 
expected to attempt a chargeback when Mr B raised a claim on 5 December 2018.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not think M&S Bank treated Mr B unfairly by refusing 
to reimburse him. My final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman