DRN-1988033
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Cia Insurance Services Ltd acted unfairly and unreasonably when it 
dealt with the renewal of her landlords insurance policy. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Mrs B had a legal expenses and rent guarantee policy. The broker was Cia. Mrs B contacted 
it before renewal to explain that her tenants circumstances had changed, that there was 
only a sole adult tenant and she was on benefits. The parties agree Mrs B was told that she 
needed to get updated references when entering into the new lease with the tenant. Mrs B 
said that she told Cia it was unlikely that the tenant would pass any affordability checks.
The policy was renewed and Cia said that it hadnt been notified of any changes. But a few 
months later, Mrs B called to tell Cia that the tenant had failed the reference checks. It 
explained that as Mrs Bs tenant didnt have satisfactory references when the policy was 
renewed on 31 July 2019, the insurer had said that it wouldve refused to offer the policy. 
The policy was voided and the premium refunded.
Mrs B complained to Cia. She said that she wasnt told that the tenant had to pass an 
affordability test, which she knew the tenant was unlikely to pass, when called about the 
change in circumstances. Mrs B felt Cia had misled her and hadnt properly explained what 
was needed for the policy to be renewed.
The insurer offered to reinstate the policy and backdate it to run from 31 July 2019, but there 
had to be a guarantor who passed the relevant checks in place. Mrs B asked Cia what was 
meant by the requirement for the guarantor to pass the relevant checks as it knew there 
wasnt one and the tenant hadnt passed the credit check. The insurer answered and said it 
wrongly had believed there was a guarantor. Without one, it couldnt offer a policy at all. 
Mrs B said that Cia had never told her a guarantor was required if the tenant couldnt prove 
affordability through references and complained again.
Cia said when Mrs B first told it about the change of circumstances of the tenant, she was 
told to update the references, and it wasnt notified of any change so the policy was 
renewed. Cia said that it wasnt until three months later Mrs B told it that the tenant had 
failed the reference checks due to lack of income, and it told Mrs B that this meant the policy 
wasnt valid. The insurer had only agreed to renew the policy if there was a guarantor who 
passed the reference checks. Cia explained that the terms and conditions of the policy 
required a satisfactory credit reference from the tenant or guarantor. It apologised for the 
delays in explaining this to Mrs B, but said it was the broker, not the insurer who made the 
final decision.
Mrs B complained to us about Cias handling of the renewal and its service. The 
investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. She listened to the calls 
between Mrs B and Cia and said Mrs B was told she needed to get up to date references 
about the tenant, and Cia didnt contact Mrs B again to find out the current position before 
renewing the policy. The investigator said if Mrs B had been asked to confirm satisfactory 
references had been received before renewal, the policy wouldnt have been later cancelled 
as it wouldnt have been renewed due to lack of such references.
The investigator also said that Cia provided incorrect information to the insurer which led to 
its offer to renew the policy after the first complaint; this caused a retraction of the offer once 
the insurer was told that there was no guarantor and increased the trouble and upset 
suffered by Mrs B in her view. The investigator noted that calls werent returned by Cia as 
promised and Mrs B had to chase to find out what was happening. She said these were all 
unfair and unreasonable failings by Cia and it should pay £125 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mrs B. She explained that as Cia wasnt an insurer, it couldnt put the 
policy in place for Mrs B.
Cia accepted the investigators view, bit Mrs B disagreed. She said Cia should act as the 
guarantor for the tenant. An investigator explained that wasnt something this service would 
require, and that a broker couldnt act as an insurer or force an insurer to issue an insurance 
policy. She also explained that in any event without satisfactory references, Mrs B wasnt 
ever going to be able to have the policy, so Cias failings made no difference; it was standard 
industry practice to require such references. Mrs B said that she couldve evicted the tenant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs B had the policy before it needed to be renewed in 2019. The terms and 
conditions of the policy, which its fair and reasonable for Cia to have expected Mrs B to 
have read, required satisfactory references for the tenant or guarantor to be obtained before 
agreeing a new tenancy. Cia told Mrs B to get updated references before agreeing a new 
tenancy with the now sole tenant; this was correct. 
It isnt clear why Mrs B thought unsatisfactory references would be acceptable given the 
terms and conditions of the policy, especially when it is echoed in the statement of facts for 
the policy that:
 If you have stated on the attached form that you have obtained satisfactory references for 
all tenants, as required for Rent Guarantee Cover, then please note that in the event of a 
claim you will be asked to produce these references. Failure to produce these references will 
result in the claim not being considered by the underwriters.
This is a standard requirement for such insurance policies  insurers reasonably expect 
landlords to take reasonable steps to ensure a tenant can afford to pay the lease, or to 
require a guarantor if necessary. This is to reduce the risk of non-payment, an insured risk. 
Im satisfied that without such references, Mrs B wouldnt have been able to have this policy.
Where Cia went wrong was to fail to contact Mrs B before renewal to ensure satisfactory 
references had been obtained and to ensure the right information was within the statement 
of facts. This caused the policy to be issued in the first place, and led to its withdrawal on 
two occasions. This wasnt fair or reasonable, and is a failing by Cia. The same applies to 
failing to return calls as promised and not updating Mrs B without being chased, even if the 
update was to confirm it was waiting for a response from the insurer.
Putting things right
Im not persuaded that Mrs B suffered financial loss due to Cias failings. Cia told Mrs B that 
she needed up to date references for the tenant; without positive references, which is standard industry practice for this type of insurance policy, Mrs B is very unlikely to have 
been able to have such a policy. And Mrs B chose to go ahead with the new tenancy despite 
knowing that the tenant was likely to fail the affordability tests. Mrs B didnt choose to evict 
the tenant.
Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered. Cia shouldve confirmed the 
correct information before renewing as Mrs B had notified it of the potential issue, and it 
shouldve have given incorrect information to the insurer. It shouldve returned calls and 
been more pro-active with updates. Mrs B is more upset about her inability to have the policy 
she wants, but that isnt something for which Cia is at fault and it cant in any event issue 
such a policy as it isnt an insurer. Considering all the circumstances, I think £125 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Cia Insurance Services Limited should 
pay Mrs B £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of the 
renewal of her insurance policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman