DRN-4289858
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr M complain about the number of visits carried out by British Gas Insurance 
Limited (British Gas) to resolve an issue under their home emergency insurance policy. 
They also complain about the behaviour of agents during scheduled appointments.  
Mr M has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs L or   
Mr M as Mr M throughout the decision, save for when any specific event relates to Mrs L. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mr M says the pipework from his washing machine and the 
kitchen sink share an outlet pipe. He says the outlet pipe became blocked and led to his flat 
being flooded as well as the flat below. Mr M says he had to contact British Gas a number of 
times, and each time they appointed an agent  who Ill refer to as company D. Mr M says, 
despite multiple visits, company D werent able to resolve the blockage. So he complained 
about this as well as issues caused during engineer appointments and engineers who he 
says were rude and abusive. 
British Gas responded and explained the continued blockages were being caused by 
fat/grease being poured down the drain. British Gas said the terms and conditions of the 
policy say they wont repair or replace any parts that have been deliberately damaged or 
misused. In relation to Mr Ms concern relating to a missed appointment, they said an 
engineer had attended a scheduled appointment but left as there was no answer. They 
apologised for any dissatisfaction with the service and sent a cheque for £70 as 
compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L and Mr M. She thought British Gas hadnt acted 
unreasonably and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L and Mr M disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs L and Mr M will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. I think its important to add, I wont be commenting on every event during 
the claim, instead I have taken a broad approach to the overall service provided. 
Multiple visits to resolve the drainage issue
Mr M says the number of call outs to address the recurring blockage issue indicates British 
Gas werent able to fix the problem. He says blockages kept recurring after a visit even 
without the sink or washing machine being used  Mr M says this shows the blockages 
werent properly addressed during visits. 
My starting point is Mrs Ls policy booklet. This sets out the terms and conditions and, under 
a section headed General exclusions it includes Pre-existing faults. This says cover wont 
be provided for any faults or designs that, existed when you first took out the product [or] 
weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been completed by a 
third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a satisfactory standard. It 
also lists Deliberate damage or misuse under the same section and says British Gas 
wont repair or replace any parts that have been deliberately damaged or misused. Our 
engineer will use their expert judgement to determine how the damage was done. It also 
lists Making any improvements and says, Where weve told you that an improvement is 
necessary, we may not continue to make repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or 
system unless the work has been carried out. 
British Gas have provided job sheets from their engineer visits, and this shows the first visit 
where the engineer has noted, Rodded clear blocked kitchen gully. Blocked with grease. 
Left free flowing Theres a further visit a week later where the engineer identified the waste 
pipe from the washing machine was blocked and notes, Cleared washing waste pipe 
Theres a further visit around a month later where the engineer notes, Vaxed and spartaned 
clear blocked kitchen sink and washing machine waste. Pipework full of fat and has very little 
fallLeft free flowing Theres a further visit a couple of days later where the engineer notes, 
Vac u-bend and sink full of fat in bottle trap restored flowdue to misuse and poor install. 
Following a further visit the engineer notes, Tenant having reoccurring issues with kitchen 
sink waste blocking up due to misuse and poor installadvised quote to replace waste 
pipe.
Claim notes provided by British Gas show there have been several visits but the job sheets 
show the engineers repeatedly found the blockage being attributable to the presence of 
fat/grease in the pipework as well as an incorrectly installed fall on the pipework. The notes 
and job sheets show the engineers restored the flow and explained the fall of the pipework is 
too shallow. British Gas say the presence of fat/grease is classed as misuse and falls under 
their exclusion of Deliberate damage or misuse and the issue with the installation of the 
pipework falls under their exclusion of Pre-existing faults. 
British Gas say, when their engineers have given information on previous visits regarding the 
blockage and this repeatedly occurs, they wont be able to attend for the same issue 
indefinitely if no action has been taken to mitigate that same fault. And in the case of any 
corrective work that needs doing to the pipework, they say this falls under their exclusion of 
Making any improvements. British Gas say its important to carry out corrective work in 
order that British Gas can continue to attend to faults related to that pipework. I can see 
British Gas have provided a quote to correct the fall of the pipework and also suggested to 
Mrs L that she can get her own quote as well because its chargeable work and not covered 
by her policy. 
Taking this all into account, and while I acknowledge it was frustrating for Mr M when the 
same problem was recurring, I cant say this was down to an error by British Gas. The 
information shows the engineers found evidence of fat/grease in the pipework. I can see    
Mr M strongly refutes any suggestion that he continued to pour fat/grease down the sink 
after each engineer visit, causing it to block again. Looking at the information provided, 
which includes the job sheets and Mr Ms testimony, I am persuaded by Mr Ms comments 
and I believe its more likely than not the blockages werent being caused by Mr M pouring 
fat/grease down the sink following each visit. Its clear from the job sheets that the engineers did find the presence of fat/grease during 
each visit, so I cant rule this out as being a reason for the blockage. But, Mr M says the 
fat/grease mightve built-up over time  and I believe thats likely the case here. Im not an 
expert in plumbing but, when considering this complaint, Ive compared the job sheets and I 
can see these describe the area of pipework where the engineers found there to be a 
blockage  and I cant see theres a pattern here of finding the same area blocked. As Ive 
said, Im not an expert in plumbing, but I do think its reasonable to conclude that its more 
likely than not, had Mr M been pouring fat/grease down the sink after each visit the 
fat/grease would likely have been deposited around the same area. Thats not the case here 
as the job sheets show, firstly the kitchen gully was cleared, then the washing machine 
waste pipe, then the kitchen sink and then the vac u-bend and bottle trap. So, I think its 
more likely a build-up of fat/grease over time which was being found in different areas. So, I 
hope Mr M feels reassured I dont believe the cause of the repeated blockages was down to 
him pouring fat/grease down the sink following each visit.  
This then leads me to consider why, if the problem was being caused by fat/grease 
accumulated over time and being found in different areas, British Gas couldnt have rectified 
this during an earlier visit by clearing the full pipework rather than clearing certain sections 
during the visits. So, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy, and this says 
British Gas will cover work for Unblocking drains to restore flow. Looking at the job sheets, 
thats what the engineers have done, as they refer to restoring flow. And in doing so, British 
Gas have acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I acknowledge Mr M says he offered a suggestion for the engineers to drill from both the sink 
and the exterior pipe and there havent since been any problems. I acknowledge it could be 
argued this step couldve been taken at the first visit, but that would be with the benefit of 
hindsight  and that isnt the test Im applying here when deciding on the service provided. 
Im looking at whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And in this case, as Ive said, 
British Gas did resolve the blockage and restore the flow in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. So, once this was done during each visit, I dont think it was necessarily 
unreasonable for the engineers not to have then continued investigating the pipework for any 
other areas of blockage. In addition to this, I can see from the job sheets the engineers did 
start thinking more progressively about the underlying causes for the recurring problem and 
identified there might be a need to check the full pipes and then later proposed a solution in 
relation to the poorly installed pipework which they felt was contributing to the problem. So, 
taking this all into account, I cant say British Gas have acted unreasonably here.  
Engineer visits 
Mr M says an engineer was due to attend but then didnt turn up. I can see from one of the 
job sheets, the engineer says Customer not home when engineer attend site The job 
sheet contains a job reference and is a contemporaneous account of the visit by the 
engineer, and this shows they did attend. I acknowledge Mr M says they didnt attend but I 
havent been provided with any information which challenges the job sheet, so its this 
information which I find more persuasive.
I can see Mr M refers to another visit where he says an engineer didnt attend but he later 
found out an engineer had attended and, without announcing his arrival, let himself into the 
garden and quoted for the work without looking at the piping inside the flat. Ive seen the job 
sheet for the visit where a quote has been provided and it refers to the materials required 
and the labour costs. It doesnt refer to whether the engineer looked at the piping inside the 
property, but the purpose of the visit was to provide a quote to carry out any chargeable 
corrective work and I can see this was done. Its clear also there had been previous visits so, 
even if the engineer didnt look at the pipework inside, its clear British Gas were already aware of the problem and any corrective measures required  and Im satisfied that is the 
case as previous job sheets do refer to the issue with the fall of the pipework. 
Mr M says, there was an occasion when two engineers attended and made him pull out a 
fridge into the hallway and then pull out the washing machine on his own, so they could 
access the pipes. Mr M says they then left without letting him know and without offering to 
help him move the fridge and washing machine back in place. Mr M also refers to other 
occasions where he was expected to move these appliances. I acknowledge Mr M was left 
disappointed and I can see weve put this query to British Gas. They say they dont believe 
its expected for customers to move appliances before a repair. The job sheets dont refer to 
the engineers asking Mr M to move appliances. So, in view of the information I do have, I 
cant say British Gas have acted unreasonably here. Im not saying I disbelieve Mr Ms 
account of events, its just that I dont have any information, such as contemporaneous 
evidence showing Mr M complaining about this at the time, to support a finding that British 
Gas have acted outside their expected standards.    
Mr M also refers to occasions where engineers and a British Gas member of staff were rude 
and referred to mice droppings being present behind the washing machine. I acknowledge 
this was upsetting for Mr M and I do agree with his comment that most people will be 
unaware of the presence of mice droppings behind appliances like a washing machine. The 
job sheets do show engineers had concerns about health and safety. I acknowledge Mr M 
wont have been aware of this issue but I cant say its unreasonable for the engineers to 
have pointed out concerns and for British Gas to have requested any work areas are clear 
and clean to enable the engineers to have a safe working environment.  
Issues with toilet 
Mr M refers to work carried out by an agent of British Gas to replace a toilet. I can see Mr M 
has concerns about the work carried out here, but the information shows this was down to 
the previous toilet not being installed correctly. The information shows a quote was agreed 
with Mrs L and the work carried out as a chargeable job. So, given the work here was carried 
out under a private contract and not as part of a claim under the policy, it doesnt fall within 
our jurisdiction as a regulated activity. Ive also considered whether the work was to correct 
any errors originally made by British Gas under the policy  and thats not the case. So, Im 
not able to consider this part of the complaint. 
I can see British Gas have apologised to Mrs L for any disappointment caused, and theyve 
paid £70 compensation  and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand why Mr M has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive carefully 
considered the information he and British Gas have provided. But I cant say the service has 
been unreasonable here. I wish to reassure Mr M Ive read and considered everything he 
has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because 
I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain 
my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman