DRN-3771076
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with how Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn dealt with her 
when she was in financial difficulty as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In May 2019, Ms S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The agreement was for a period of five years; with an initial payment of £400 
followed by 59 monthly repayments of £218.36.
Ms S said she agreed a payment arrangement with Moneybarn in December 2021. She said 
she was unable to keep to this arrangement because she had been ill. She was unhappy 
because Moneybarn told her they were going to terminate the agreement and they had 
repossessed the car and sold it.
Moneybarn said that Ms S had complained to them that they hadnt taken account of her 
mental and physical health conditions, and that they refused to accept an offer to pay two 
months payments in March 2022 after missing the payment due in February 2022.
Moneybarn said they were aware of Ms S health conditions and reviewed her account every 
month. They said theyd offered support including a payment plan. They said Ms S had not 
kept to the agreed plan and arrears had accrued on the account. Ms S failed to make the 
first payment due under the plan in February 2022. They said Ms S told them she had been 
of work due to illness. They said they couldnt agree a further payment plan due to the 
amount of arrears now owed by Ms S.
They said they advised Ms S to contact a money advice agency for debt advice as they 
didnt think she could afford to make a double payment in one month. They said she should 
discuss her income and expenditure with the money advice agency, and they would consider 
whether or not a payment plan proposal from that agency was acceptable.
They said Ms S contacted them in April 2022 and told them she wanted to exit the 
agreement early. Ms S agreed to terminate the agreement early. She said she did so 
reluctantly, and only because Moneybarn wouldnt agree a monthly payment she could 
afford.
Unhappy with this, Ms S brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. She was satisfied that Moneybarn had 
provided appropriate support and forbearance to Ms S. She said they had worked with Ms S 
regarding the arrears over a significant period of time, and that Ms Ss proposal would have 
meant that the arrears on the account would become too big to manage. 
She also said that Moneybarn had treated Ms S reasonably when it reduced the amount 
owed after voluntary termination based on the loss of auction value rather than the damages 
charges.
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), say that 
firms should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include a number of things 
including allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a 
reasonable period of time. 
I can also see that Ms S income was affected by the Covid 19 pandemic. The industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, that came into 
effect on 27 April 2020, for customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. That guidance said:
This guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably 
expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus. Where 
a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and 
guidance in CONC would continue to apply.
And in November 2020 the FCA issued tailored support guidance  this provided an update 
on the earlier guidance and applied to firms dealing with customers, like Ms S, who were still 
facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus and who had 
already received payment deferrals under the Payment Deferral Guidance.
So Ive considered whether or not Moneybarn provided Ms S with forbearance and due 
consideration as expected in the Handbook and the guidance. I think they did. Ill explain 
why. Before I do, Ive seen the notes of Ms Ss health condition in the information supplied 
by Moneybarn. This also includes information that she is helped by a support worker. Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn took this into account in their dealings with Ms S.
Arrears
Ms S entered into the agreement in May 2019. She went into arrears within six months of the 
first payment due under the agreement. Moneybarn considered her income and expenditure 
and agreed a payment plan that allowed her to clear these arrears over a period of eight 
months.
When Ms S told Moneybarn in May 2020 that she had been furloughed they granted her a 
payment deferral covering June 2020, July 2020, and August 2020  in line with the 
guidance. A further payment holiday was granted in September 2020 and October 2020. Ms S told Moneybarn shed be able to make payments and agree payment plan from November 
2020 as she was going on night shift which would increase her wages. 
Moneybarn granted another payment holiday for November 2020 when Ms S told them she 
hadnt been able to return to work. 
They told her at the time that any further held payments (payment deferrals) would be due at 
the end of the agreement. They advised her payments would restart in December 2020, and 
shed need to agree a payment plan to cover the arrears on the agreement.
Im satisfied that by granting the payment deferrals, they treated Ms S in line with  
expectations set out by the FCA.
Ms S informed Moneybarn at the end of December 2020 that she couldnt make the payment 
due to an injury that prevented her from working. At the end of January 2021 she told 
Moneybarn shed been in an accident and had to pay for repairs to the car. On both these 
occasions Moneybarn allowed Ms S breathing space to allow her to resolve her financial 
situation.
I can see that a payment plan was agreed where Ms S would pay £20 a month from April 
2021 in addition to her contractual payment. But this failed. In May 2021 Ms S told 
Moneybarn she was unable to work due to family circumstances. Moneybarn agreed to put 
the account on hold until June 2021. At this point she told Moneybarn shed been assaulted 
at work, and due to her family circumstances, she only received half pay.
In August 2021 she told Moneybarn shed left her job because of the assault and was 
starting a new job in a few weeks time. But in September 2021 she told Moneybarn the job 
offer had been withdrawn. They agreed to put the account on hold until Ms S was able to 
confirm her income. 
In November 2021 she told Moneybarn about an injury she had sustained in her new job, 
and tests had uncovered further illness. The account was put on hold again as Ms S said 
she was starting a new job in December 2021.
In December 2021 Ms S supplied details of her income and expenditure, after receiving an 
email from Moneybarn informing her they were about to issue a default notice giving her 20 
days to clear the arrears, to avoid termination of the agreement.
Moneybarn said they needed an extra £160 each month to clear the arrears, but Ms S said 
she could only afford an extra £72 each month. Moneybarn agreed to allow another hold on 
the account until middle of January 2022. This was because Ms S told them she was 
increasing her hours to full time and would provide an update income and expenditure 
statement. 
In January 2022 a payment plan was agreed following a review of income and expenditure. 
Ms S would pay an additional £41.64 from February 2022 on top of her normal monthly 
payment.
In March 2022 Ms S told Moneybarn she hadnt made the payment as shed been unwell but 
had now returned to work. Moneybarn advised Ms S that they needed her to discuss her 
financial status with a money advice agency. Its clear that they were now doubting Ms S 
ability to keep to any payment plan. She hadnt made a payment since April 2021. I think 
referring her to an advice agency was a fair and reasonable step to take.Im satisfied that Moneybarn have treated Ms S fairly. They offered her a number of payment 
arrangements to help her pay the arrears, they kept her account under review, and put the 
account on hold when she told them her circumstances would improve. And when she was 
still unable to pay the strongly advised her to obtain support from an external money advice 
body. The tailored support guidance says that customers should be allowed time to consider 
their options and, if necessary, seek debt advice before making a decision on the support 
they take. This is exactly what Moneybarn did for Ms S.
Termination
I appreciate that Ms S wanted to keep her car. But Moneybarn has a responsibility to ensure 
that payment arrangements didnt put Ms S in further financial difficulty. They also had to 
avoid the arrears increasing to an unmanageable level. So it was reasonable that they 
reached the point where they had to explain the options that would allow Ms S to exit the 
agreement early  and this is what they did in March 2022, and again in April 2022.
Im also satisfied that they took steps to keep the amount owed following the early 
termination of the agreement to a minimum. The amount outstanding on the agreement was 
£3,243 plus damage charges of £1,658  these charges have not been disputed. Moneybarn 
have reduced the amount to £3,763 based on the loss of value at auction as this was lower 
than the damage charges. Im satisfied this was the fair and reasonable approach to take 
given Ms Ss financial difficulties.
Im satisfied that Moneybarn treated Ms S fairly and in line with the expectations set by the 
FCA. I appreciate that she says she was ill, and she wanted to make the payments and keep 
the car. But Moneybarn provided her with payment deferrals for six months, and gave her 
several opportunities to agree an affordable payment plan. So I wont be asking them to do 
anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman