DRN-2361189
The complaint
 Mr S complains about how Tradewise Insurance Company Limited handled his claim on his 
car insurance. 
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy with Tradewise. In September 2019 he was involved in an 
accident. He made a claim on his insurance.
Mr S car was taken to a garage for repairs to be carried out. However it took some time for 
the repairs to be completed due to a delay in getting the required parts. During this time a 
courtesy car was provided as a gesture of good will.
During the claim Mr S received a number of letters from the other drivers insurer. These 
said that his insurance company werent responding to them about the claim. Mr S 
forwarded these on to Tradewises agent who had authority to handle the claim on its behalf. 
However this wasnt passed on to Tradewise and as a result Mr S received a county court 
claim form. 
Mr S made a complaint to Tradewise about the handling of the claim. He said his car had 
taken a long time to be repaired. He also said he hadnt received the courtesy car until 
around a week after the accident which meant he had been without a vehicle in that time. 
And he was unhappy that the other drivers insurer continued to contact him when he had 
asked Tradewise to get in touch with them.
Tradewise accepted that it didnt provide regular updates and its communication could have 
been better. It said this feedback had been passed on to the relevant people. However it 
said the repairs took a long time because the repairers were waiting for a part and this was 
out of their control. Further it said that the correspondence from the other drivers insurer 
wasnt passed on to it, which is why Tradewise didnt contact them straight away. However 
after it was then this was dealt with promptly.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He wanted Tradewise to reimburse him for the excess and for 
the time he had to take away from work due to not having a vehicle for the first five days of 
the claim. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought Tradewise and its agents had provided poor service and Mr S had to chase 
for any updates. She thought Tradewise should pay £150 compensation to make up for this. 
However she said as a courtesy car isnt included under the policy, she didnt think it would 
be fair to ask Tradewise to reimburse Mr S for the time he lost away from work when he 
didnt have a vehicle.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said even when the courtesy car was provided, it was a 
very different car to his own, so he thought Tradewise should pay more compensation to 
reflect this. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr S is unhappy with how his claim was handled. In particular the poor service provided by 
Tradewise and its agents and the courtesy car he was provided with. I have considered each 
of these in turn to decide whether Tradewise treated him fairly and whether it needs to do 
anything more to put things right.
Service and delays
Mr S says that his car took longer than it should have to repair and that he wasnt provided 
with any updates. Mr S car was in the garage for around eight weeks. This is significantly 
longer than we would expect. And the repair garage had initially said it would be done in 
around two weeks. So I can understand why Mr S is frustrated at the delay.
Tradewise has said that the delay was due to the delay in the delivery of a part that was 
required for the repair, so this was out of its control. I have considered this, alongside 
evidence provided by Tradewise, and I accept that the delivery of the part likely did cause 
the delay. However I would expect Tradewise to keep Mr S informed about the repairs, 
particularly as they were taking so much longer than expected.
From looking at the correspondence I can see that updates were only provided to Mr S when 
he contacted the repairer. And even then, these updates were vague. This meant that Mr S 
had to consistently chase up the repairer which would have been distressing and 
inconvenient. But he also had to ask lots of questions in order to get an understanding of 
what was happening and likely timescales. So I agree Tradewise did provide poor service 
which caused Mr S undue distress and inconvenience. 
Mr S was also unhappy that Tradeweise didnt act on the letters he provided from the other 
drivers insurer. And this meant he ended up getting a claim form from the county court.
When he received the first letter from the other drivers insurer, Mr S passed it on to the 
agent that was dealing with the claim. Tradewise has said this wasnt passed on to it which 
is why no action was taken. Although I accept this wasnt passed on, the agent Mr S sent the 
letter to were authorised to act on behalf of Tradewise. So Tradewise is responsible for its 
actions The fact the letter wasnt passed on led to Mr S receiving a county court form, which 
would have been distressing as he may have been worried that he would have to go through 
the courts.  
For these reasons I agree that Tradewise and its agents have provided poor service 
throughout Mr S claim. And this has caused Mr S distress and inconvenience that could 
have been avoided.  Based on this I agree with our investigators recommendation that 
Tradewise should pay £150 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Courtesy Car
Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car for the first five days that his car 
was in the garage. He also says that the type of car he was given wasnt like for like as it 
was a much lower specification than his own.
When a car accident happens, it is an unfortunate consequence that the people involved 
may be without their cars for a short time after. Because of this, some insurance policies include provision of a courtesy car during this time.
I have looked at Mr S policy and a courtesy car isnt included under the cover. Tradewise 
has explained that this was offered by the garage as a gesture of goodwill. So although Mr S 
didnt have use of a car in the first five days of the claim, this isnt something that he is 
entitled to under the policy, so it wouldnt be fair to ask Tradewise to reimburse him for the 
time he was unable to work because he didnt have a vehicle.
I have also considered the fact Mr S was provided with a car that was a lower specification 
than his own. I appreciate this would have been frustrating, and this would have been made 
worse by the fact that the repairs took longer than anticipated so he had the car for longer. 
However as he was provided with a vehicle after the first five days, this means he was able 
to carry out his work as he would have done after this point.  Had he not had access to a 
vehicle for the period of the claim, I may have considered compensation, as he wouldnt 
have had access to a vehicle for a longer time than he reasonably should have. But in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Tradewise has done enough and ensured he had access to 
a vehicle. So I wont ask it to do anything further in this regard.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I require Tradewise Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S 
£150 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman