DRN-1670789
The complaint
Mr Q has complained that DRB Associates Ltd failed to advise him to take pension 
protection at the relevant times, meaning he could face a large tax bill if he exceeds the 
lifetime allowance (LTA) in future.
Mr Q is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr Q.
What happened
Mr Q and his brother are directors of company C. They set up a small self-administered 
scheme (SSAS), a type of occupational pension scheme, to provide them with pension 
benefits. Mr Q and his brother were both trustees and members of the scheme.
The SSAS had been set up and was administered by a business called P, which is a 
professional trustee. DRB is associated with P and provides financial advice services.
In September 2014, Mr Q received advice from DRB in relation to a small personal pension 
he held which had a value of around £40,000. Mr Q told DRB he wanted to transfer the 
benefits held in the pension to a drawdown arrangement so he could take the maximum 
Pension Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS) at age 55 and asked for advice to achieve 
that objective. DRB recommended Mr Q switch the benefits to an alternative provider. Mr Q 
accepted this recommendation.
In the following years Mr Q and his brothers relationship with DRB and P broke down.
Mr Q crystallised his SSAS benefits on 1 April 2016 at which point they were valued at 
£1,233,982.10. This used 98.72% of his LTA of £1.25m. Mr G took a PCLS of £308,495.52.
After engaging with a new financial adviser in 2018, Mr Q complained about the lack of 
advice given to him about his LTA. Specifically, he complained about the failure of DRB to 
advise that he apply for pension protections in 2014 and 2016 to preserve a higher LTA. 
Mr Qs brother made an identical complaint which is the subject of a separate complaint with 
our service.
DRB didnt agree that Mr Q had been affected by any LTA issues as hed crystallised his 
benefits in April 2016 using almost all of his LTA before the LTA was reduced. Mr Q 
remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint. He didnt think that there were any 
reasons to believe Mr Q needed to apply for pension protection when he received advice 
from DRB in 2014. He also didnt think there was any real benefit to him applying for 
protection in 2016.
Mr Q didnt agree and asked for a final decision. He said that the adjudicator had focused on 
the events up to 2016, but the issue wasnt just contributions and their growth and the
impact it had on the first crystallisation event. Mr Q said the bigger issue was the rental 
income derived from property held within the SSAS which DRB knew about and continued to 
generate around £125,000 per year split between him and his brother. He said this would 
have an impact on the LTA in the future when additional crystallisation events occur.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Q argues that he shouldve been advised to apply for the protections available to him in 
2014, which wouldve preserved a higher LTA. 
Mr Q says that DRB was advising him on his personal pension and SSAS benefits 
throughout his relationship with it. But based on the client agreements signed by Mr Q and 
his brother on behalf of their business, DRB stated that it would arrange investments to be 
held in the SSAS but would not keep these under review. It said further advice would be 
provided on request.
Ive only seen evidence of advice having been provided to Mr Q as a trustee of the SSAS in 
January 2013 and in September 2014 in respect of a personal pension.
The suitability report of 21 January 2013 shows that advice was being sought by Mr Q and 
his brother in respect of surrendering an existing executive pension plan held in the SSAS 
and reinvesting it in a collective investment account. They also wanted to maintain the 
ongoing contributions, which were £4,000 per month, to the new account. The suitability 
report stated:
You have confirmed that this is the only objective that you are prepared to address at this 
time and do not wish to discuss any other potential objectives.
So, at the time of this advice, which was limited to surrendering an executive pension plan 
and reinvesting it in a collective retirement account, I dont think DRB couldve been 
expected to explore whether Mr Q would likely encounter an issues with his LTA. I say this 
particularly as DRB appears to have been advising Mr Q and his brother as trustees: the 
investments were held under the trust structure of the SSAS, so they didnt directly own 
them as members, but as trustees. In fact, advising on their own indirect interests under the 
trusts of the SSAS is excluded from the list of regulated activities that can be considered by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, as the SSAS is an occupational scheme. I would refer to 
article 89(2) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001.
Mr Q received advice from DRB in September 2014 in respect of a personal pension valued 
at around £40,000. As Mr Q wasnt intending to take any funds until he was 55, which was 
over a year away at this point, QRB didnt comment on the impact of drawing these funds on 
his LTA. However, it informed him about the protections available and the tax charges that 
would be levied if he exceeded his LTA. It also explained that if Mr Q had applied for Fixed 
Protection he wouldnt be able to make further contributions.At that time, Mr Q could no longer apply for Fixed Protection 2014 as the deadline had 
passed. QRB advised that he could apply for Individual Protection 2014 up to three years 
after 6 April 2014. But Mr Q wasnt eligible to do so at this point in time as his pension 
benefits were valued at less than £1.25m. It wasnt known until March 2015 that the LTA was 
going to be reduced further to £1m. So, at the point of the advice in August 2014, DRB 
couldnt have advised Mr Q to apply for Fixed Protection 2016.
The suitability report of September 2014 said that ongoing adviser charges would apply to 
the collective retirement account that had been recommended. The regulators Retail 
Distribution Review in January 2013 made it clear that advisers collecting ongoing charges 
were to explain what service would be provided in return for those charges. This wouldve 
included an annual review, which in my opinion, wouldve included considering the impact of 
any changes on Mr Qs LTA. I think Mr Q ought to have been invited to a review of this 
pension around September 2015. But I havent seen any evidence to show this occurred.
Mr Q crystallised his SSAS benefits in April 2016. DRB says it didnt provide any advice here 
and it was Mr Qs decision. Mr Q hasnt provided any evidence to show he sought or 
received advice when he decided to take these benefits in his capacity as a member, so 
I dont think there was any grounds for DRB to advise him on his LTA. And in any event, at 
this time Mr Qs pension benefits were valued at almost 100% of his LTA of £1.25m. 
Mr Q is still eligible to apply for Individual Protection 2016 as his benefits were valued at 
more than £1m on 5 April 2016. That is why I havent gone on to consider whether he 
shouldve been advised to apply for protections when DRB ought to have provided him with 
an annual review of his personal pension in September 2015. Ultimately, Mr Q hasnt lost out 
here as Individual Protection 2016 is still available to him if he wants to take advantage of it.
I appreciate that Mr Q may find he will exceed his LTA in future. However, there is an onus 
on Mr Q to mitigate the potential impact of this by limiting his contributions or taking 
withdrawals from the crystallised part of his pension to reduce the overall growth it will have 
achieved since the first Benefit Crystallisation Event. Mr Q has told us he doesnt need to 
take income from the pension as it was always intended to provide an inheritance for his 
children free of inheritance tax (IHT). But there are a number of ways that Mr Q could pass 
value to his children without an IHT charge when he dies. Overall, Im not persuaded that 
DRB should have advised Mr Q to apply for pension protections during the time period in 
question.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman