DRN-2916461
The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated her unfairly when threatening to take legal 
action and registering a default in respect of a debt on a joint account
What happened
Mrs C and her ex-partner held a joint account with HSBC. Mrs C says her ex-partner was 
solely using the account and she thought her name had been taken off it. When HSBC later 
decided to close the account, Mrs C found out she was jointly liable for repaying an overdraft 
of over £2,000 because her name was still on the account.  
HSBC wrote to Mrs C at various points about the overdraft and she responded to some if its 
letters, including: 
31 August 2017 - HSBC wrote to Mrs C and her ex-partner and said the overdraft 
had exceeded the agreed limit. As a result, it said it had cancelled it and needed to 
discuss repayment to avoid a formal repayment demand.
15 September 2017 - HSBC sent a notice addressed to both parties saying that as it 
hadnt received an offer to repay the overdraft, it was entitled to demand the full 
amount. It said failure to act on its notice could lead to the account being closed and 
details being passed to a credit reference agency and a debt collection agency. 
1 November 2017 - a final demand addressed only to Mrs C. HSBC said it had 
already written to her and sent a default notice. And, as payment hadnt been made, 
the full balance needed to be settled within 18 days, otherwise solicitors could be 
instructed, and the debt passed to repayment services. HSBC also confirmed it had 
given Mrs Cs details to credit reference agencies.
9 December 2017 - HSBC said that following on from previous correspondence, it 
had passed the outstanding debt to repayment services to pursue (as it had closed 
the account and registered a default with credit reference agencies on 5 December 
2017). It told Mrs C that if it didnt hear from her, collections activity might continue. 
26 December 2017  HSBC wrote to Mrs C and said it hadnt received a response to 
previous correspondence. It asked her to get in touch within 10 days. From the 
annotations on a copy of the letter that Mrs Cs provided, it seems she responded to 
HSBC on 9 January 2018. 
Mrs C also wrote to HSBC on 17 February 2018 in response to another letter it sent 
on 22 January 2018 (confirming she was jointly liable to repay the overdraft). She 
explained, amongst other things, the very difficult personal circumstances eventually 
leading to the break down in the relationship. She said that her ex-partner had solely 
used the account since. And she said the first shed heard about any outstanding 
debt was when she received a letter from HSBC in late December 2017 (she also 
indicated that her ex-partner had intercepted some mail, which was why she hadnt 
previously been aware of issues with the account). As far as Mrs C was concerned, 
her name had been removed from the account some time ago. So, she was in 
dismay and shock to find out that wasnt the case.  Mrs C didnt think she should 
be held responsible for any debt accrued by her ex-partner.
19 February 2018  HSBC wrote to Mrs C again and said it had yet to hear from her. 
And, if it didnt, it might consider taking legal action against her in the county court.
HSBC wrote to Mrs C on 27 April 2018 in response to her letter of 17 February 2018. 
It apologised for the delay in responding and said, having reviewed the 
circumstances, Mrs C and her ex-partner were jointly liable for the debt. It again 
asked Mrs C to get in touch about repayment.  
(Mrs C contacted this service in 2018 to complain about HSBC holding her liable for the debt 
and we sent her our assessment about that complaint  in July 2018.)
14 March 2019  HSBC confirmed that it had closed the account on 5 December 
2017 with an outstanding balance of over £2,000. It asked Mrs C to get in touch with 
its collections department.
14 January 2020  HSBC again said it had been trying to get hold of Mrs C to 
discuss the overdraft. It asked her to get in touch within the following 10 days, 
otherwise it would consider taking legal action through the courts.
Mrs C responded to HSBC on 23 January 2020 pointing out that the account was 
closed in December 2017 after a payment of over £2,000 was credited to clear the  
overdraft. She also provided evidence (a statement, which she was given by the 
branch), which she thought showed that. 
HSBC wrote to Mrs C on 7 February 2020 saying it hadnt heard from her. It said it 
was considering making a claim against her in the county court to recover the 
overdraft and asked her to get in touch within 14 days to discuss options. 
Mrs C responded on 16 February 2020. She referred to her previous letter of 23 
January 2020 and the bank statement shed provided. She again said that the 
account was closed in December 2017 and the overdraft cleared. So, she wanted to 
know why HSBC was considering legal action in these circumstances. 
HSBC wrote to Mrs C on 2 March 2020. It said the account was now being managed 
by its pre-litigation team. And if it didnt hear from Mrs C it may give formal notice 
that legal proceedings would be brought against her. 
Mrs C complained to our service in February 2020 about the fact that HSBC was still 
contacting her in relation to a closed bank account. She made a number of different points to 
support her complaint. 
She also  complained to HSBC on 9 March 2020 stating it had chosen to ignore all of her 
previous correspondence and was harassing her. She mentioned that shed already made a 
complaint to our service about this. In its response dated 30 March 2020 (which Mrs C says 
was sent to the wrong email address) HSBC said that it closed the account because it wasnt 
being managed within the agreed terms. And it referred to various letters it had sent outlining 
that the overdraft needed to be repaid. However, HSBC said it had since reviewed the file 
and had decided to write off the debt, so Mrs C wouldnt be contacted about it again. It also 
paid her £100 in compensation because it recognised shed been inconvenienced when it 
failed to respond to some of her letters. And it sent Mrs C some flowers, although I 
understand she didnt receive those.  
Mrs C  wasnt happy with HSBCs response. She said that  despite HSBC saying it had 
wiped off the debt, a live default was showing on her credit file. And she thought this had 
affected her credit status. She wanted us to continue looking into her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She noted that our service had already given its 
response to a previous complaint brought by Mrs C about whether HSBC acted reasonably 
in saying she was jointly responsible for the debt. So, she said it wasnt something that we 
could comment on again. The investigator considered the additional complaint points that 
Mrs C brought to us - whether HSBC had acted fairly and reasonably by threatening to take legal action and when registering a default against her credit file. The investigator felt that 
prior to writing off the debt, HSBC was entitled to tell Mrs C that it was considering legal 
action to recover it. However, she didnt think HSBC had acted fairly in relation to the default 
on Mrs Cs credit file. Specifically, she didnt think it was fair for the account to show as 
open seeing as HSBC had written the debt off. She felt the credit file should show the debt 
as partially settled/satisfied (even if HSBC wanted to keep an internal note about the debt) . 
So, the investigator recommended that HSBC correct Mrs Cs credit file. The investigator 
asked HSBC to pay additional compensation of £100 in total in recognition of the impact of 
its reporting error on Mrs Cs credit file and errors in certain correspondence. She also 
thought HSBC should consider sending Mrs C another bunch of flowers seeing as she didnt 
receive them first time around.  
HSBC accepted the investigators assessment. Mrs C didnt. She said that the amount of 
compensation recommended didnt fully reflect the distress shed suffered over a prolonged 
period. She said the impact of having the default on her credit file had been significant 
through no fault of her own. And she wanted confirmation from HSBC in writing that it would 
immediately remove it from her credit file. Our investigator clarified to Mrs C that she wasnt 
seeking removal of the default from the credit file, just an amendment to show that the debt 
had since been settled.
As Mrs C didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And whilst I acknowledge that HSBC has taken some steps to try to resolve it, Im not  
persuaded its actions have gone far enough. So, Im going to uphold the complaint.
Im really sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Mrs C found herself in. And as she 
says she wasnt responsible for running up the debt, I can appreciate why she feels it was 
unfair of HSBC to pursue her for it. However, like our investigator, I wont be making a 
finding about whether Mrs C was liable for the debt or not, as that was covered in a previous 
response from this service. But to give additional context, Ill note here that colleagues 
concluded HSBC hadnt acted unreasonably when pursuing Mrs C for a debt that accrued on 
a joint account. 
In this decision, Ill focus on whether it was fair and reasonable for HSBC (having decided 
that Mrs C was jointly liable for the debt) to threaten to take legal action and register a 
default against her credit file.
Taking legal action and registering a default is fairly serious action for a financial business to 
take. Not least because it can often have long lasting implications - particularly when the 
customer tries to secure credit in the future. Businesses are expected to support customers 
who run into difficulty by discussing options for repayment. And, if theyre intending to take 
things further - such as legal action  they must give customers reasonable warning of their 
intentions should payment not be made. In addition, guidance from the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) says that a default should typically be registered on an account 
within about three to six months of it falling into arrears.
In Mrs Cs case, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that HSBC sent various warnings 
from at least August 2017, telling her that it needed her to agree a repayment plan for the 
overdraft to avoid more formal action being taken. It also explained the next steps it could 
take in the event that payment wasnt made. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs C got in 
touch with HSBC about the letters sent around that time. And shes indicated that the first 
she knew of a problem was around late December 2017. Whilst shes suggested that she 
hadnt previously received other correspondence about the account, as her ex-partner had intercepted it, that doesnt appear to account for why Mrs C may not have received the 
letters from August 2017 onwards. I say that because Mrs Cs suggested her ex-partner left 
the former marital home around February 2017 and doesnt appear to have returned since. 
So, as it doesnt seem that these particular letters could have been intercepted and they 
were properly addressed, its not possible to say now why Mrs C appears not to have 
received them. And I dont think this is something that HSBC can be held responsible for. As 
HSBC didnt hear from Mrs C about a repayment plan, I think it was entitled to warn her that 
it could take legal action if necessary. And as the overdraft wasnt repaid, it follows that I 
think it was also entitled to share details with credit reference agencies and register a default 
when it received no further contact from Mrs C.
Mrs Cs also indicated to our service that HSBC made no attempt to communicate with her 
between December 2017 and January 2020. Its clear from the evidence Ive seen that it did 
contact her during that time and that Mrs C received at least some of HSBCs 
correspondence. I say that because her letter of 17 February 2018 was clearly written in 
response to HSBCs letter of 22 January 2018. And, whilst there was a delay in HSBC 
responding to her letter (it sent its response in April 2018) Im satisfied it did respond. 
Its possible that HSBC may not have responded in the terms Mrs C hoped for or expected, 
but I dont think thats the same as saying it didnt communicate at all. Theres further 
evidence of HSBC writing to Mrs C during 2019 and early 2020 too. 
Its a pity though that HSBC didnt review and respond to some of Mrs Cs correspondence. 
Particularly as there seemed to be some confusion about the position concerning the 
overdraft. Mrs C was clearly under the impression that the overdraft had been settled in full 
when HSBC closed the account in 2017. And she provided evidence in January 2020, which 
she thought showed that. Having looked at the statement Mrs C submitted, I can fully 
appreciate why she had come to that conclusion. It clearly shows that an account transfer 
of over £2,000 was made (an amount equal to the overdraft) and a balance of £0.00. 
Whereas, what seems to have happened was that HSBC had removed the overdraft for the 
purposes of closing the account, but had simply passed it to its collections team to recover. 
So, it wasnt a case of the overdraft no longer having to be repaid. It was just being managed 
by a different team. And had it responded to Mrs Cs letters sooner, I think HSBC could have 
cleared up this confusion. But HSBC didnt respond to the question of whether the arrears 
had been settled or not until March 2020 when responding to Mrs Cs complaint. And in the 
meantime, it had sent her another letter saying it was considering action in the county court. 
I can appreciate that this must have been frustrating for Mrs C particularly as she hadnt had 
an answer to her previous letter. And I can see she then wrote a further letter to HSBC in 
February 2020, again saying the account balance had been cleared in full. And perhaps, 
understandably, she questioned on what basis HSBC could be considering legal action. She 
also said she thought HSBCs actions amounted to harassment. Again, rather than 
responding, HSBC simply sent another letter to Mrs C in early March saying the matter was 
in the hands of its pre-litigation team. I can see how all of this may have contributed to Mrs 
Cs feeling of being ignored by HSBC.
Im sure it was a relief to Mrs C to find out that HSBC wasnt intending to pursue her for the 
debt after all. But shed had to deal with the frustration and inconvenience of HSBC not 
responding to her letters in the meantime and simply sending further letters indicating it was 
intending to pursue legal action. HSBC accepts that its failure to respond to some letters 
caused Mrs C inconvenience. And it paid her £100 compensation to reflect that. Whilst 
theres no evidence HSBC did take legal action, I think its correspondence would still have 
caused Mrs C concern. But, on balance, I think HSBCs response overall is reasonable, so 
Im not going to ask it to do anything more about this particular aspect of the complaint. I say 
that because HSBC was entitled to contact Mrs C about the overdraft once it deemed her 
jointly liable for it (again I make no particular finding about this), so I think its responded in a 
fair and reasonable way by saying that it isnt intending to pursue the outstanding amount 
from her. And as its recognised the inconvenience from not having responded to some of Mrs Cs letters, I think the £100 compensation its already paid fairly recognises that and any 
other inconvenience caused by its handling of correspondence. 
Turning now to the default placed on Mrs Cs credit file. As I indicated earlier, having given 
appropriate warning, I think HSBC was entitled to register the default in the way it did. 
I appreciate that Mrs C feels it should be removed completely. But I dont think it would be 
fair for me to ask HSBC to do that. Financial businesses have a responsibility to accurately 
record activity on a customers credit file to reflect their payment history amongst other 
things. This is also the sort of information that other lenders will want to take account of 
when making lending decisions, so its important theres an accurate record of what 
happened on an account. And whilst Mrs C may not agree, HSBC deemed she was jointly 
responsible for the debt. And, as that debt wasnt repaid and was subject to a default, HSBC 
was entitled to notify credit reference agencies of that. However, as the debt was written off 
in March 2020, I think HSBC should have taken steps to amend Mrs Cs credit file then to 
reflect this. As it hasnt done that and the debt is still showing as live, it follows that I dont 
think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably here. 
Mrs Cs said this has caused her various problems when trying to secure credit. I havent 
been given any specific evidence beyond Mrs Cs comments about the problems she faced.  
But as lenders do take account of the information recorded on a customers credit file, I think 
its entirely plausible that it caused some difficulties for Mrs C and I accept her account of 
what happened. However, I also need to bear in mind that, once recorded, a default will stay 
on a credit file for six years, so its likely to have some impact in any event. Bearing in mind 
all of the circumstances here, I think the additional compensation of £100 in total 
recommended by our investigator fairly recognises the additional inconvenience Mrs Cs 
likely to have suffered by HSBCs failure to amend the credit file sooner. So, thats the 
amount that HSBC needs to pay now. 
On top of that and given the problems first time around, I think HSBC should again send 
Mrs C flowers if shes willing to accept them.
 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs C an additional compensation payment of £100. Thats 
to recognise the inconvenience caused by its failure to amend Mrs Cs credit file in March 
2020 when it wiped off the outstanding debt.
In addition, HSBC should now amend Mrs Cs credit file to show that the debt was satisfied 
in March 2020. 
 It should also send Mrs C flowers if shes willing to accept them.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should now take the action Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman