DRN-1894398
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs and Mr D 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs and Mr D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case I 
reach a different view to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision and asked 
for comments and any further evidence. In the provisional decision I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In response to the adjudicators letter, Mrs and Mr D made in particular the following 
points:
There was pressure put on them and it was unlikely they were told they had a 
genuine choice about the PPI  the commission the bank earned was 
too great for them to give the information Mrs and Mr D needed. 
They were never told they could have got a better or cheaper deal from 
another company. 
The mortgage was in their joint names, but only Mr D was covered by the 
PPI.
Ill address these points. 
Ive looked at the documents from the time and I do think that, at least on paper, Bank 
of Scotland gave Mrs and Mr D a choice about taking the PPI. The application form 
said, We recommend you consider our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme; 
and, in that section, after Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance, is Mr Ds signature.I realise this doesnt prove Bank of Scotland didnt put unfair pressure on Mrs and Mr 
D. But the problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the 
exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt 
necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even 
if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually 
something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real 
sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant 
be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Bank of Scotland did 
something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
If Bank of Scotland did give Mrs and Mr D a genuine choice, it wouldnt necessarily 
have to tell them about other similar products sold by their rivals  if Mrs and Mr D 
were given a choice, it meant they were free to either have no PPI or go and look for 
alternative PPI elsewhere. 
However, when recommending the PPI, Bank of Scotland did have to make sure it 
was suitable for Mrs and Mr Ds individual circumstances. And I think it probably was. I 
say this because:
Being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. Even 
though lots of PPI sold on other types of borrowing was of questionable 
value, often it was sensible to have this type of protection for something 
as important as the mortgage on your home. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time that Mr D (the person 
covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. 
It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. 
It would have put off the time when they would need to fall back on any 
savings or other means of help they may have had. 
This all would have put Mrs and Mr D in a more secure position, if they 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they 
took it out.
It doesnt look as though Mr D would have been affected by the significant 
exclusions in the policy.
 
When two people on the mortgage are earning, it is common for the benefit to be 
split. This is so their monthly contribution to the mortgage is covered if they lose their 
job or fall sick. But Mrs and Mr D have pointed out that only Mr D was covered, even 
though Mrs D was also on the mortgage. 
I can see from the information on the application form that Mrs D earned just under 
10% of their joint income. So it might have made better sense if the benefit of the PPI 
had been split so that 90% of the potential benefit was paid out if Mr D lost his job or 
was off sick for a time, and 10% if this happened to Mrs D. But I dont think the 
difference was so great (between Mr D getting 100% or 90%) that it meant the 
recommendation was significantly wrong. And even if it wasnt the ideal recommendation, Ive thought about whether Mrs and 
Mr D have lost out. As far as I can see, Mrs D was never in a position where she was 
off sick or made redundant  so she didnt actually lose out from the benefit going 
potentially only to Mr D. 
Finally, the monthly price of the policy was shown in the documents. So I think 
Mrs and Mr D would have understood how much it would cost. 
 
Bank of Scotland didn't make any comments. Mrs and Mr D said the decision was not what 
they would have liked, but they accepted the decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I'm not upholding this complaint. 
 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman