DRN-3682880
The complaint
Mrs B with the assistance of her representative, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) has treated her unfairly with how it priced her home insurance over 
a number of years.
What happened
Mrs B has insured her home with RSA from 1986 through until 2021. She held both buildings 
and contents insurance up until 2012 when she cancelled her contents insurance as the 
cumulative cost of these became unaffordable.
RSA wrote to Mrs B in early 2021 to explain the policy she held could not be renewed due to 
changes in its system. It advised that shed need to seek a new policy from elsewhere. But a 
quote could be provided through its brand More Th>n insurance  where RSA still 
underwrites the insurance.
Mrs B, with the assistance of her daughter, shopped around online. She was shocked to 
discover that her insurance needs could be met for significantly less than shed previously 
been paying. Her last insurance renewal with RSA for her buildings insurance only was 
£1141.68 with her paying almost £100 per month on her direct debit. She found policies for 
her buildings and contents ranging from £150-£300 per year. More Th>n offered the 
insurance for £268.08. 
Mrs B complained to RSA, with such a difference in price for the cost of her insurance, she 
didnt think it had treated her fairly with how it had priced her policy before. She asked that it 
refund the excess charges she felt shed paid for her insurance over the lifetime of her 
policy.
RSA compared the More Th>n policy and reviewed her previous policy and how it was 
priced. It accepted there was a significant difference, but this was due to this policy operating 
on a different pricing structure. It said it didnt think it had done anything wrong with how it 
had priced Mrs Bs policy previously, as this was in line with its pricing structure for this 
product. But it offered Mrs B a payment of £835.50 which it said was made as a goodwill 
payment to reflect that Mrs B had been a longstanding customer.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Bs complaint and said that she didnt think RSA had treated 
Mrs B fairly. She wasnt persuaded, based on the information RSA had shared, that the price 
increases during the lifetime of the policy were fair. In the absence of this, she thought it 
needed to do more to put things right in excess of the payment made previously. 
RSA disagreed and provided more information on the complaint which it felt demonstrated 
that it had acted fairly when making the payment to Mrs B. It said this was based on points in 
time when it could see the policy had increased in price by more than its current pricing 
structure would expect. Although this was based on its position now, it acknowledged that it 
would be fair to refund the difference in price when the increase went above its current 
maximum pricing point and the payment made was reflective of this refund.  
Our investigator reviewed the information provided and said that she felt the offer made was 
fair  based on what had now been provided to explain the makeup of this. She couldnt 
share the specific details with Mrs B as this would mean sharing commercially sensitive 
information but she didnt think RSA needed to do anything else beyond this to put things 
right. She was satisfied that although there were years when RSA charged more than its 
current price structure would be for the policy, the refund made was fair and covered this 
difference.
Mrs B and her representative were understandably upset at the change in our investigators 
outcome. She remains unhappy with the lack of transparency around why there was such a 
difference in the costs of policies. And while they accept that information cannot be shared 
that is commercially sensitive, there is a need for further clarification on how this outcome 
has been reached. So the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know this will be disappointing for Mrs B, but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what it should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is a 
commercial judgement and for it to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
When customers renew their policy year on year with little or no engagement on the price of 
it, wed say they are inert. We dont think its fair that inert customers are treated differently 
because they havent been engaging and we expect businesses to demonstrate why the 
price of the policy has changed as it has  highlighting how theyve not been treated 
differently to other customers.
RSA hasnt been able to provide information about the policy and how it was priced for all of 
the years that Mrs B was insured with it. With the policy being in place for over 30 years, it is 
understandable that its records dont give this information for all years. It has provided a 
breakdown of information from 1999 onwards and the rationale for any changes in price from 
this point. Mrs B has been able to provide her renewal statements to as far back as 1992 
and these demonstrate the price paid at this point. 
In 1992 the cost of the policy  as detailed on the renewal notice  was £696.60, by 1999 
this had risen to £739. The increase between these years is relatively small and with this in 
mind, I dont think it is unreasonable to assume that a similar pricing structure may have 
been in place for the earlier years. So while it would be ideal to have the full detail for all 
years, Ive applied an assumption that the earlier years would have been priced in a similar 
way when looking at this complaint.
RSA provided information to this service about how it prices its policies. It feels this 
demonstrates that Mrs B hasnt been treated differently or unfairly with how it has priced her 
policy. The exact detail of this cannot be provided to Mrs B as it is commercially sensitive. I 
know this will be frustrating and complete transparency would be better, but all insurers price 
differently and it wouldnt be right that information sensitive to how this is done is shared. 
But, I hope my reassurance of reviewing this information independently can provide a satisfactory answer.
RSA, like all insurers has a pricing model in place which it applies to the policies it insures. It 
currently works to a maximum price point where it doesnt expect an individual policy to 
exceed the set maximum margin. It hasnt always operated with the same model  many 
businesses review their pricing models regularly as they adapt to a number of things which 
impact the decision making that sits behind this. But when looking at Mrs Bs complaint and 
the premiums shes paid previously, it felt it was fair to apply this maximum margin 
retrospectively. 
This has resulted in RSA identifying periods when Mrs Bs premium had increased beyond 
its current benchmark. Although it doesnt think it was pricing outside of the model it would 
have had in place at the time, it thinks its fair to refund the difference paid when this 
happened. This shows Mrs B was treated differently when comparing how RSA now prices 
its policies and limits its margin.
The margin applied to Mrs Bs policy didnt change significantly between 1999 and 2021  it 
maintained a range of less than 4% through until 2016 when, this only increased as the  
margin started to drop quite considerably.  So as a starting point, it would be reasonable to 
say that the price increases were not driven by RSA increasing its profit margin on the 
policy. RSA has also said its margins are not impacted by a customers level of engagement 
and changes made are applied collectively to all to reflect the changes it needs to make 
based on a number of things. So the fact that Mrs B had little engagement on the cost of her 
insurance with RSA didnt impact the price.
One key external change to insurance pricing is insurance premium tax (IPT) and this is 
something that will have impacted the price of Mrs Bs policy during its lifetime too. Between 
1999 and 2017, IPT increased from 4% to 12%. This is a cost that RSA has no control over 
and it is applied directly to the premium. RSA has also explained that there has been periods 
in time when changes to its claims ratio have impacted the cost of the insurance it offers. 
And the claims Mrs B made will have had an impact on the cost of her policy too as it 
reduced no claims discounts and reviewed the level of risk it felt was appropriate to insure 
her property. 
Based on this, I dont think it is fair to say that RSA did anything wrong with how it treated 
Mrs B previously or priced her policy. But it has recognised that its model has now changed 
and when applying this, Mrs B could have lost out so its applied this retrospectively to put 
things right.
Overall, when considering the offer made by RSA, I think it has acted fairly by recognising 
the points in time when the changes to Mrs Bs premium exceeded its current models 
maximum price. 
I think it could have been more transparent on this within its response to the complaint and 
indeed, even to our service with the information it provided from the outset to our 
investigator. This would have allowed her to provide Mrs B with an accurate assessment of 
the complaint from the start and would have helped with transparency  which although is 
difficult with the nature of the information behind insurance pricing  has a real bearing on 
consumers understanding if theyve been treated differently.
The cost of insurance has changed a great deal over the last 30 years. I appreciate the huge 
difference in price that Mrs B has been able to find her insurance for now will make her 
question how the previous years price could be fair. But the fact that other policies available 
now are cheaper than her old policy doesnt mean the old policy was priced unfairly or that 
RSA did anything wrong at the time. As Ive said, the margin applied didnt change a great deal over the years that RSA has been able to demonstrate what was applied. And there are 
a number of other factors that will have impacted the cost of the insurance over this time. 
Including the changes to IPT and claims inflation which explain why RSA continued to 
increase the price of the policy as it did.
As Mrs B has mentioned in her response to our investigator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) has put in place new rules for motor and home insurance from the start of this year. 
These were introduced because the FCA was concerned that insurance didnt always offer 
fair value. The rules have been designed to address this. They are not retrospective so 
questions of value and whether a policy was providing fair value previously are not 
something that can be considered here. And although Mrs Bs price did increase year on 
year, Im satisfied these increases were not simply applied because of Mrs Bs likelihood to 
accept without engagement, but because of the increasing costs associated with providing 
the insurance to RSA.
RSA recognised that when the price of Mrs Bs policy increased because its margin 
increased beyond the level it now applies to all customers, that it would be fair to refund the 
difference paid for these years. I agree this is fair and the offer it made previously as a 
goodwill offer provides this refund. So I dont think it needs to do anything else in relation to 
Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint as I think the offer 
made previously to put things right by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman