DRN-3924670
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the charges that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, 
trading as MBFS, applied when he handed back a car he had acquired under a hire 
agreement.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B entered into a hire agreement with MBFS to acquire a brand-new car. The 
agreement was for approximately 35 months. Mr B handed back the car in July 2022, and 
MBFS asked him to pay around £2,085 for damages to the car. This was for damage to the 
car that MBFS considered to be outside of their Vehicle Return Standards (VRS).
Mr B said that, before he returned the car, he had some repairs done via an insurance claim. 
Mr B said that MBFS are saying that the repairs completed were not up to standard. Also, he 
said, that he had contacted the repair shop that did the repairs and they said they would be 
willing to rectify the repair standard upon inspecting the car themselves. But Mr B said that 
MBFS told him that its too late to return the car which he thinks is unfair. He said that it 
seems MBFS want the car back looking like new and are not fair in what they deem to be fair 
wear and tear in a three-year-old car.
In August 2022, MBFS wrote to Mr B and said that, as per their VRS, when a car is returned, 
an inspection will be carried out and if there is damage that falls outside their VRS they send 
out an invoice for the damage charges. MBFS listed the levied charges and said that, due to 
the damage on the report, Mr B was charged a total of £2,085.37.
In this correspondence, MBFS also said that they provided a copy of their VRS to Mr B at 
the start of the agreement, so they said he had ample opportunity to familiarise himself with 
them and have the repairs carried out at his own cost before returning the car. They have 
also said that, as Mr B had repairs carried out under his insurance policy at a garage that 
wasnt a manufacturer approved repairer, these repairs were not carried out to their VRS. 
And that after the car is collected, at the end of the contract, it can no longer be returned to 
Mr B. MBFS explained to Mr B that if hes not able to make a payment for the damage due to 
his financial situation he can call their dedicated department which may be able to offer an 
affordable plan for him. 
Unhappy with MBFSs response Mr B brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that it was fair 
for MBFS to charge for all the listed damage on the inspection report except for the for the 
charges relating to: 
- Interior Screen  Chipped
- Offside Front Wing  Scratched
- Nearside Rear Door  Poor Repair
- Interior odour
MBFS agreed with the investigator, but Mr B disagreed, so, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr B acquired the car under a hire agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Mr Bs agreement with MBFS 
sets out that he needs to maintain the car in a condition which is consistent with the VRS 
and, if he does not look after the car properly, he will be responsible to compensate MBFS 
for the cost of repairs. 
British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) also set out industry guidance on 
what is considered fair wear and tear standards. So, Ive taken this guidance into account 
along with the MBFSs VRS, when deciding whether MBFS acted fairly and reasonably in 
the charges they applied. Ive also taken into account the age and mileage of the car when it 
was returned.
When Mr B acquired the car, it was brand-new, so I think its reasonable to consider the 
BVRLA standards when deciding whether the damage is outside of reasonable wear and 
tear. Since the car was brand new when acquired by Mr B, most likely, it was in a perfect 
condition, and free from minor defects. With that said, the car, most likely, had no scratches 
or damage. So, I reviewed the inspection report to see if the damage on the car was outside 
of fair wear and tear. 
Front Bonnet  chipped
The BVRLA guidance sets out that chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
they are not rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge and 
eight chips on any forward-facing panel are permitted. MBFSs VRS state that any chipping 
of paintwork that (e.g. chips caused by stones flying off public road surfaces), provided that 
they do not penetrate the vehicle base coat nor show signs of corrosion, can be attributed to 
normal usage. From the pictures provided in the inspection report, I can see that there are at 
least eight chips present and that these have penetrated the base coat. So, I consider this 
damage to be representative of damage thats outside of fair wear and tear.
Front Bumper Painted and Rear Tailgate  Poor Previous Repair
The BVRLA guidance sets out that obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint,
preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not
acceptable. MBFSs VRS state that previous body repairs and paint rectification will not be 
considered acceptable if there is evidence of poor colour match, ripples, preparation marks, 
visible overspray, masking lines or excess dirt in paint. It also says that excess paint chips,
which detract from the overall appearance of the car or panel, are not acceptable. From the 
pictures provided in the inspection report, I can see that there is evidence of a rippled finish, so I consider this damage to be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and 
tear. 
Front Bumper Unpainted  Damaged
The BVRLA guidance sets out that there should be no rust, corrosion, or discolouration on 
any painted area, including painted bumpers, body mouldings and mirrors. MBFSs VRS 
state that discoloured, loose, cracked, distorted, gouged or split bumpers, and mouldings 
that require replacement, plastic welding or painting are not acceptable. The pictures in the 
report show that there is discolouration on the bumper, so I consider this damage to be 
representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear.
Nearside Front Door Interior Sill/Step and Offside Front Door Interior Sill/Step  Scratched
The BVRLA guidance sets out that scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal 
use are acceptable. MBFSs VRS state that light surface scratches not through the top coat 
which can be removed by polishing/touch up, are acceptable. From the pictures I can see 
that there are scratches that have gone through the top coat. So, I consider this damage to 
be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear.
Nearside Rear Wheel Alloy Painted and Offside Front Wheel Alloy Painted  Scratched and 
chipped
The BVRLA guidance sets out that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable, but that any damage to the wheel spokes, 
wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. MBFSs VRS sets out that minor 
scuffing or damage under 25mm to the car alloy, or steel rim edge, or wheel face are 
acceptable. The pictures in the inspection report show that there are numerous chips and 
there are scratches that are most likely exceed 25mm. So, this damage is also 
representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear.
Offside B Post Inner, Offside Rear C Post Inner, Offside Front Door and Offside Rear Door  
Scratched
The BVRLA guidance sets out that surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or 
bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided that they can be polished out. A 
maximum of four surface scratches on one panel is acceptable. MBFSs VRS sets out that 
light surface scratches not through the top coat, which can be removed by polishing/touch up 
are acceptable. The pictures in the inspection report show that there are scratches through 
the top coat. And on some of the panels there are more than four surface scratches. So, I 
consider this damage to be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear.
Offside Rear Door Interior Offside Aperture  Scratched
The BVRLA guidance sets out that scratches on treads, sills, and seals that reflect normal 
use are acceptable. MBFSs VRS state that damaged paintwork down to bare metal and 
aperture seals that are torn are not acceptable. From the pictures I can see that the aperture 
is torn so, I consider this damage to be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear 
and tear.
Rear Boot Floor  Damaged
The BVRLA guidance sets out that torn or split floor coverings and damaged surrounding 
trim panels are not acceptable. MBFSs VRS state that torn rubber aperture seals and paint 
scratched down to the bare metal are not acceptable. The pictures in the report show that there are scratches to the paint through to the bare metal, so, this damage is also 
representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear.
I think, most likely, all the mentioned above damages are more than fair wear and tear 
considering the circumstances. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge 
for these damages as per the inspection report. And the actual charges themselves dont 
seem unreasonable.  
Ill now consider some damage that I dont think is outside of fair wear and tear for which 
MBFS initially wanted to charge Mr B. I know that MBFS have agreed to remove these 
damage charges after our investigator issued her opinion, but for completeness I will 
consider these below.
Interior Screen  Chipped
The BVRLA guidance sets out that damage in excess of 10mm in the drivers line of vision (a 
vertical strip of 290mm wide cantered on the steering wheel) or in excess of 40mm 
elsewhere in the area swept by the cars wiper blade is not acceptable. MBFSs VRS state 
that chips on windscreen, which are less than 5mm, providing they do not obscure the 
drivers line of vision to a maximum of two chips per windscreen (MOT standards) are 
acceptable. From the pictures in the inspection report I can see that there is a chip present, 
but the evidence doesnt show whether this chip is above 5mm. In addition, this chip doesnt 
seem to be in the in the drivers line of vision. So, I dont think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr 
B for this damage.
Offside Front Wing  Scratched
The BVRLA guidance sets out that surface scratches of 25mm or less, where the primer or 
bare metal is not showing, are acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of 
four surface scratches on one panel is acceptable. MBFSs VRS sets out that light surface 
scratches not through the top coat, and which can be removed by polishing/touch up, are 
acceptable. From the pictures in the inspection report I can see that there is potentially a 
scuff which, most likely, can be polished out. Also, there is no scratch present. So, I dont 
think this is representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear, and I dont think it 
would be fair for MBFS to charge Mr B for this.
Nearside Rear Door  Poor Repair
The BVRLA guidance sets out that obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint,
preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish, or poorly matched paint is not
acceptable. MBFSs VRS state that previous body repairs and paint rectification will not be 
considered acceptable if there is evidence of poor colour match, ripples, preparation marks, 
visible overspray, masking lines, or excess dirt in the paint. It also says that excess paint 
chips, which detract from the overall appearance of the car or panel, are not acceptable. But 
from the picture in the inspection report I cant see enough that would persuade me that, 
most likely, there is evidence of a previous poor repair, so I dont think it would be fair for 
MBFS to charge Mr B for this.
Interior  Odour
The BVRLA guidance sets out that the interior upholstery and trim must be clean and 
odourless with no burns, scratches, tears, dents, or other staining. MBFSs VRS doesnt 
mention that the car needs to be returned odourless. It may be that, when taking into 
consideration the BVRLAs guidance, the cars interior odour was beyond fair wear and tear, but it seems that MBFSs standard is more lenient. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable 
for Mr B to be charged for this as MBFSs VRS hasnt been breached.
I know that Mr B feels very strongly that the repair shop which completed the insurance 
repairs, shouldve been allowed to rectify some of the damage mentioned above. Mr B said 
that the car was with MBFS for a few weeks, so there was ample time for the car to be given 
back to him to get it rectified by the repair shop that completed the insurance repairs. So, he 
feels that it is unfair that he is penalised because of an alleged poor repair. But Mr Bs 
agreement with MBFS sets out that he needs to maintain the car in a condition which is 
consistent with the VRS. And the agreement explains that when he returns the car, any 
damage that breaches these standards will be his responsibility. So, any repairs that were 
needed had to be completed before he returned the car and it would not be fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to be responsible for any damage that is considered outsider of fair 
wear and tear, as mentioned above.
Whilst I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, looking at all the 
evidence available to me, I think, on balance, it was fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge 
him for some but not all the damages - as explained and detailed above.
MBFS explained to Mr B that if he is not able to make a payment for the damage due to his 
financial situation, he can call their dedicated department which may be able to offer an 
affordable plan for him  I think this is fair and Mr B should take them up on this offer, if he 
needs to. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as 
MBFS should:
- Remove the damage charges relating to the Interior Screen, Chipped Offside Front 
Wing, Nearside Rear Door, and the ones levied for odour, as detailed above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as MBFS, to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman