DRN-2452379
The complaint
Miss L complains how National House-Building Council (NHBC) has handled her claim 
under the Buildmark policy.
What happened
Given the history of this claim is extensive and well known to both parties, I have 
summarised events within this background.
In December 2015 Miss L bought her new build property. In early January 2016 she 
provided the builder a list of issues with the property. But she remained unhappy, so, she 
reported the outstanding issues to NHBC in March 2018.
NHBC considered the issues under Section 2 of the policy, accepted some were covered 
and carried out investigations and repairs. Miss L remained unhappy and made complaints 
to NHBC. It issued final response letters (FRLs) in July 2018, February 2019, July 2019, 
September 2019, October 2019, July 2020 and December 2020.
I am aware that NHBC have raised several references in response to Miss Ls concerns. To 
be clear, this final decision is only looking at certain points on NHBCs claim reference 
18/17816. Both parties were made aware in January 2020 of our jurisdiction on this 
complaint and that view covered what aspects of the complaint I can and cannot consider. 
Both parties accepted this, so I wont explain it all in detail again here.
The timeframe that I can consider in this decision is from 15 February 2019 to 31 July 2020. 
Anything that happened on the claim before or after these dates isnt something I can 
address in this decision.
So, under NHBC reference 18/17816 the following issues were considered under its 
resolution service:
1. Roof leak- damp coming through walls to bedroom
2. Flooring  uneven in both bedrooms;
3. Leaking shower in en-suite; and
4. Stair nosings are splitting and cracking.
However, I only have authority to look into complaints about faults reported to the builder in 
the first two years when:
A. A resolution report has been completed; and
B. The report has directed the builder to do something by a deadline; and
C. The builder failed to complete the work by the deadline or is insolvent.
NHBC didnt direct the builder to do anything for items 3 and 4, so the above criteria werent 
met, and I have no jurisdiction to look into those two items. For items 1 and 2, NHBC did 
direct the builder to carry out work. NHBC subsequently took over the builders obligations 
for these two items because the works were not completed by the builder within the set time. 
So, I do have jurisdiction to look into items 1 and 2.
Miss L has said there have been numerous attempts to fix the issues causing water ingress, 
and the flooring but she says the repairs have not worked and the issues are still 
outstanding. Miss L has said the stress and living in damp, smelly conditions have affected 
her health, and ultimately, she wants the issues rectified and to be compensated. Miss L has 
paid for third parties to survey elements of her property for some of the issues she has 
identified, and she has forwarded these reports to NHBC to consider, which she would like 
them to cover the cost of. She also feels that because there have been several problems 
with the property, NHBC should complete a full forensic survey as opposed to just 
considering the items that have already been accepted. 
NHBC have acknowledged that the repairs it has conducted have been piecemeal and there 
have been some delays at times during its involvement in the claim. Prior to the period of 
time I can consider, NHBC offered a total of £1,200 compensation. And in the period Im 
considering it has offered a further £400 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. Miss L has therefore asked for her 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand for Miss L that the issues she has experienced with her property have been 
ongoing for her over several years and I empathise that her property hasnt been built to 
some of the technical standards required. However, this complaint is against NHBC  not the 
builder of her home  and its involvement in this complaint started in March 2018. But as 
mentioned previously, I can only look at the period from 15 February 2019 to 31 July 2020 
and only in relation to NHBC reference 18/17816.
I think it is essential to clarify NHBCs responsibilities here. NHBC do not regulate the 
builders or developers that built Miss Ls property. In the first two years it is the builders 
responsibility to rectify any failure to comply with the NHBC technical requirements that has 
been notified to them during this period. If the builder does not fulfil their responsibilities 
under the policy, NHBC will do so on their behalf or alternatively if NHBC choose to, it will 
pay what it would cost it to have the work done.
NHBC do publish standards on the technical requirements, performance standards and 
guidance for the design and construction of homes which is deemed acceptable by NHBC. 
These requirements are not necessarily the same as building regulations.
A breach of the technical requirements occurs when a builder hasnt considered a technical 
requirement when constructing a property and this element doesnt therefore provide 
satisfactory performance as a result.
In Miss Ls case I empathise that there has been more than one cause to the water ingress 
and poor repair works conducted prior to the timeframe Im looking at has added to the 
issues identified.
I understand Miss L is unhappy with how the claim has been handled so Ive considered if 
there were any avoidable delays and the handling of the claim.From February to May 2019 I think the claim was being managed as Id expect it to be. It 
was during this period a zinc specialist company had to be used and the materials needed 
had to be ordered. It was hoped that work could start mid-April 2019, but the materials 
required couldnt be secured for delivery. So, the date was pushed back a couple of weeks 
to the beginning of May and this was agreed with Miss L as she wanted the work to start 
after the Easter holidays.
When the work was being conducted in May it was unfortunate that a part was found to be 
damaged. I understand Miss L was trying to sell her home at this time so delays and having 
scaffold up was inconvenient, but I dont feel a damaged part is something I can hold NHBC 
responsible for and it was rectified in a reasonable timeframe.
In June 2019 it was evident that the works in May 2019 hadnt fully resolved the water 
ingress. NHBC tried to get the technical drawings and information from the builder about the 
construction of the faade of the property. When this failed it had no choice but to do an 
internal inspection in July 2019 to determine the method of construction. I can appreciate for 
Miss L this wouldve been frustrating, but I dont think NHBCs actions were unwarranted. It 
was during this investigation it found the cavity tray that had been installed on a previous 
repair had been damaged during installation and this would need to be re-done. NHBC 
recognised the inconvenience to Miss L and compensated her £400 and rescheduled the 
works to be done in August. I think this is fair and reasonable.
In August the contractor didnt attend as scheduled, although NHBC did attend. It was at this 
point that the NHBC investigator identified that he thought there were further problems with 
the second-floor balcony and recommended that the balcony be stripped back. This was 
confirmed after the cavity tray was fitted in early September and found that it was working 
but there was still evidence of water ingress. I can appreciate the couple of weeks between 
the contractors failed attendance and the tray being installed in early September wouldve 
caused Miss L frustration and inconvenience. However, I dont think the rescheduled time for 
the contractor to return was unreasonable in the circumstances, as NHBC had already 
identified and informed Miss L that further investigation works were going to be needed on 
the second-floor balcony.
In late September 2019 when further investigations were done on the balconies, Miss L 
asked for the works to be paused. The work couldnt be scheduled in until Miss L consented 
and agreed to the schedule of works. From what I can see she gave this in November and 
works were booked for early December 2019. The internal work was scheduled for January 
2020.
In March 2020 I can see Miss L raised concerns that the water ingress had returned in the 
same area. I would expect under the circumstances for NHBC to attend to inspect the 
property, and I can see it intended to do that. But Miss L refused access to her home as she 
had concerns a thorough investigation wouldnt be taking place.
Unfortunately, on 23 March 2020 a national lockdown occurred due to Covid-19 and the 
public were told to stay at home unless it was necessary for them to go to work, i.e. they 
were a key worker or had to care for others. All non-essential businesses were shut.
By mid-May some restrictions were eased and those who couldnt work from home were 
encouraged to return to work, this included contractors and construction workers. This is the 
earliest NHBC could look to organise contractors to return to Miss L property and that would 
be subject to the contractors availability.Miss L told us she wasnt shielding during lockdown and could accommodate house visits. 
So, whilst I accept Covid-19 wouldve delayed NHBCs actions, I dont think NHBC 
contributed to the delays from March to June 2020.
In June and July NHBC has shown us they couldnt find any further evidence of water 
ingress in this area. Either by way of visible signs or from the meter readings taken. So, at 
that point in time I havent seen evidence that the water ingress in this area had returned. I 
understand Miss L has said this couldve been down to the time of year the readings were 
taken and that the wall was dry lined. But I havent seen any contradictory evidence that 
shows water ingress was re-occurring at that time, Im therefore persuaded the NHBC work 
that was carried out in December 2019 was still effective as of July 2020  which is the latest 
point in time I can consider in this decision.
I understand Miss L has also raised concerns with regards to the first-floor balcony following 
the survey she had conducted in May 2020. The survey raised concerns about the 
construction of both the balconies and the thermal breaks. From what Ive seen the 
construction of the two balconies are different. So, a problem identified on the second-floor 
balcony doesnt mean it will be the same for the first-floor balcony. And as far as I can see 
Miss L hasnt reported any water ingress from the first-floor balcony during this period and 
this was not reported to NHBC in terms of a defect being present during the builders liability 
period. If any damage does occur in this area during the remainder of the policy Miss L is 
able to make a claim under Section 3 of the policy, subject to the terms and conditions. The 
remedial work done on the second-floor balcony was as a result of resolving the leak that 
was reported causing damp to come through walls to the bedroom.
I understand there were other issues Miss L has raised like the scaffolding causing some 
minor damage to the brickwork from where it was tied into the building and damage to the 
balcony rail and balcony glass. Although I can appreciate these things happening is not 
ideal, I can see NHBC has agreed to rectify these issues for Miss L and I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
Flooring
I can see when NHBC visited the property in June 2020, it found an area of floor in the front 
bedroom that was still affected and moved when walked upon. It has agreed that the 
previous fix had only partially fixed the issue and it agreed to rectify this. So, in the timeframe 
Im looking at this is still being investigated and being considered under section 2 of the 
warranty. 
I understand Miss Ls concerns this is still not rectified but from what Ive seen this may also 
be interlinked with the heating issue that is being dealt with on a separate complaint. Im also 
aware that Miss L has raised a further complaint to look at the issues after the timeline I can 
consider in this complaint. So, Im satisfied that this was at a reasonable position during the 
period I can consider and was still being investigated by NHBC.
Reports
Miss L has requested the cost of reports she had commissioned to be covered by NHBC. 
The policy clearly shows that these costs will not be covered, and I can see NHBC also 
made this clear to Miss L in its correspondence with her. I have also considered if the reports 
helped or changed the actions NHBC were doing at the time. And from what Ive seen I dont 
think they impacted the claim or suggested anything that NHBC hadnt considered. So, I 
wont be asking it to pay for these reports.
SurveyI understand Miss L feels that there could be hidden problems with the build of her property 
that havent come to light and so she feels NHBC should conduct a full forensic investigation 
on the entire property. I can understand she is anxious about this, but it isnt something Im 
going to direct NHBC to do.
The resolution service isnt a regulated activity in itself. This means a complaint about 
NHBCs decision of what faults are identified or not identified, or what repairs are necessary, 
or the projected completion date fall outside of our jurisdiction. There is also no provision 
under the policy terms for NHBC to do this. NHBCs responsibility is to consider claims made 
by the policyholder for defects and/or damage that have been identified  not to search for 
problems. So, this isnt something I will be directing NHBC to do.
Miss L still does have the benefit of section 3 of her warranty that covers physical damage to 
her home because the builder failed to build (parts as listed in the policy) to comply with 
NHBC requirements. And the repair works that NHBC have or will complete will have a 
certificate of repair that makes NHBC responsible for the repair for six years from when it 
was completed.
In summary
I appreciate that for Miss L the issues with her home are ongoing. I hope Miss L can 
understand why a lot of the points that she has raised to us throughout our service looking at 
this complaint, are ones Im unable to consider in this final decision. For example, the 
heating, gutters, water ingress in the kitchen/lounge area and what has happened since the 
31 July 2020.
Miss L has told NHBC and us about the effect it has had on her health and mental wellbeing 
having to live in a damp property. Her doctor provided a letter in September 2019 which said 
she had attended on several occasions with symptoms of chest pain, stress and anxiety. It 
continued to say Miss L had reported that her house is damp and has multiple problems 
relating to the building. The doctor said she is sure this is contributing to her symptoms.
I have also seen Miss L has provided more recent health information, but this is outside of 
the period I can consider in this decision. I dont doubt having a home with multiple issues 
has caused Miss L stress and anxiety. But Im mindful that Im looking into a restricted 
timeframe of the overall claim issues, and Im unable to evidence that Miss Ls health 
conditions are directly as a result of anything NHBC has done wrong during this period. The 
£400 compensation offered for the inconvenience caused in this period I think is fair and 
reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman