DRN-1643892
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Amtrust Europe Limited. He isnt happy about the settlement 
offered under his caravan insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a new for old caravan insurance policy a few years ago and made a claim 
after his caravan was stolen. Amtrust only offered market value for the caravan, as opposed 
to the new price Mr C was expecting. It said that Mr C had underinsured the value of his van 
and the policy then reverted to the market value of the caravan.
Amtrust said that the onus was on Mr C to ensure that he had insured the caravan for the 
same amount it would cost to buy the same model now (at the time of renewal). And Mr C 
had simply insured the caravan for the cost from new at the time he bought it, which was 
less than the present value by about £1000. As Mr C wasnt happy about this he complained 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought Mr C had 
acted reasonably in providing the brand-new value of the caravan when he first took out 
cover. And he thought the policy documentation wasnt clear that he had to, in effect, revalue 
the caravan every year to maintain his new for old cover.
As Amtrust didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Amtrust maintains that it was Mr Cs responsibility to update the sum insured and that he has 
a duty to inform them of a change in circumstances. And it followed the policy in reverting to 
market value as Mr C failed to do this. But I dont think that is fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.
I say this as I dont think it was clear enough, in the policy documentation, that a consumer 
had to, in effect, check the new sale price of their caravan each time they renewed the 
policy. And I would expect this to be abundantly clear in the policy documents if Amtrust 
wanted to rely on this. 
The key facts document (KFD) mentions New for old cover - If your caravan is under five 
years old from the year of manufacture, and you have been the only owner then you should 
insure your caravan for the same amount, as it would cost to replace your caravan with a 
new one. The policy automatically gives five years new for old cover and so if you have a 
total loss claim within the first five years from the date of manufacture then we will replace 
your caravan of the same make and model.But as far as Mr C was aware that is what he had done when he took the policy out initially. 
If Amtrust wanted to change the level of cover, if Mr C didnt shop around and check the 
present value of a similar caravan, then I would expect this to be a lot clearer. And if Mr C 
had valued the caravan, and it had gone down in price for some reason, Im sure that 
Amtrust wouldnt have paid him a higher value in any event. 
Furthermore, the total sum insured (the price paid when Mr C bought the caravan new) was 
only about £1,000 short of the valuation that Amtrusts loss adjuster reached. And it seems 
unfair to expect Mr C to have expert knowledge in looking to ensure the valuation was 
correct  a consumer could easily end up being slightly inaccurate and Im sure prices can 
vary from one dealership to the next. Plus, the policy and KFD doesnt make it clear that if 
the sum insured is too low then it will revert to the significantly lower price of market value. 
So, as I think the clause is stacked in Amtrusts favour; it doesnt make it clear what Mr C 
needs to do to maintain his new for old cover; and the policy documentation isnt correct 
anyway (as Mr Cs policy covers seven years, when the policy outlines five), I dont think it 
would be fair for Amtrust to only pay market value in this case.
Finally, Ive considered whether Amtrust should be allowed to charge a slightly higher 
premium for the small amount Mr C was under insured for. But I think the difference in 
premium would be small. And any additional premium costs should be waived in any event 
to act as compensation towards the stress and inconvenience Mr C has been caused by all 
of this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe 
Limited to replace Mr Cs caravan with the same make and model or pay Mr C the new price 
for his caravan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman