DRN-1959011
 
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L have complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds handling of their car 
insurance policy
Reference to Tesco includes their agents.
In bringing their complaint Mrs L and Mr L have been represented. Where I refer to Mrs L 
and Mr Ls comments they include the comments of their representative.
What happened
Mrs L is the policyholder and her son, Mr L, is a named driver. Mr L was driving during the 
early hours of 4 March 2019 when he had an accident. He said he lost control of the car 
hitting a parked car, mounting a curb and hitting a fence. Mrs L claimed on her policy for the 
damage.
Tesco investigated the circumstances of the accident but didnt pay the claim. They said 
there were a number of inconsistencies in the accounts Mr L had given. Mrs L and Mr L 
complained but Tesco maintained that their decision was reasonable. Mrs L and Mr L 
brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Tesco hadnt dealt with Mrs L and Mr L 
fairly. He recommended that Tesco deal with the claim in accordance with the policy. As 
Tesco didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 25 June 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
In refusing the claim, Tesco said they relied on the policy terms and conditions that 
say:
making a false statement or misrepresenting or withholding information from 
the administrator could result in your contract of insurance being voided (as if 
the policy never existed), all claims under your policy being refused and all 
premiums that you have paid being retained.
The reason Tesco have given for refusing the claim is that there were a number of 
inconsistencies between the accounts Mr L gave to Tesco and to the investigator 
appointed by Tesco to look into the incident.
Mrs L and Mr L have said that Tesco are wrong to conclude Mr L has been 
inconsistent as they have misunderstood or misinterpreted some of what he said. Mrs L has also explained that Mr L has a recognised learning difficulty that sometimes 
affects him in certain situations and in the way he expresses himself.
It might be helpful to look at some of the comments Mr L made which Tesco have 
relied on in refusing the claim:
purpose of journey
In their repudiation letter of 24 May 2019, Tesco said:
First of all, we asked Mr [L] where he was going when the incident took place 
when the claim was reported over the phone, Mr [L] advised us that he was 
taking his son back to his mums however, he then changed this and advised 
that he was going to see a van with his brother.
When [the investigator] interviewed Mr [L] he said that he was going to collect 
his son's clothes from his mums. He then proceeded to say he was delivering a 
key for a van to his brother.
I have listened to the recording of the call between Mr L and Tesco. Mr L said he was 
taking his son to his sons mother and then was going to go to his brothers to sort out 
a van.
In his statement given to the investigator Mr L said:
I had taken my son and his girlfriend to [address] so that he could see his 
mother and his sister, however, she was not at the property, neither was his 
sister. We then went to [town name] for a general visit
The whole purpose for the journey was to collect my sons clothes from his 
mothers house, as well as going to [address], where my brother lives. [Address 
stated]. My [v]an was in my brother, [brothers] way and he needed to move it 
because he was erecting a fence. I was delivering the van key to him to facilitate 
that move.
Comparing the two accounts Mr L gave, I dont agree with Tesco that they are 
inconsistent. They are not identical but I wouldnt expect Mr L, or anyone else for that 
matter in his circumstances, to give a forensic account of what happened and to 
recount the events word for word each time he was asked to explain what happened. 
On both occasions he said he intended to take his son to his sons mother and then to 
go to his (Mr Ls) brother in connection with a van.
discussion with the fence owner
In their repudiation letter of 24 May 2019, Tesco said:
When we spoke with Mr [L] he advised us that as part of the accident he had hit 
a fence and was talking to the owner of the fence at the scene. He then told us 
later in the call that he actually had passed out in a field and when he awoke he 
walked to hospital.
Upon review of the [investigators] report, he has advised them that he was 
unaware of what had happened. He also said that he left the scene on foot and 
advised that he didn't speak to anyone at the scene of the incident.I have listened to the recording of the call between Mr L and Tesco. In relation to the 
fence, Tescos call handler asked if the fence Mr L hit had been damaged. Mr L said it 
had and that the fence belonged to a house. Mr L said The man put it [the fence] up 
himself cos we was chatting to him. Tesco interpreted that as meaning Mr L said he 
was chatting with the man at the time of the incident at the scene. But thats not what 
Mr L said, that is how Tesco have interpreted what Mr L said.
Its correct that in his statement to the investigator Mr L said he left the scene without 
speaking with anyone. But Mr L has told us hed previously lived in the area for a long 
time. And it was when he lived locally that hed had the chat with the man about 
putting the fence up.
It seems to me that Tescos call handler has misinterpreted parts of what Mr L said. 
For example, during the same conversation relating to the fence, the call handler 
asked Mr L about the parked car he had hit. The call handler asked if the other car 
was a private vehicle or a taxi. She went on to ask and the person you were speaking 
to  did they say if it was their own private vehicle or if it was a hire car or company 
car? Mr L answered No  I think it was their own car. The call handler asked do you 
have their name please? to which Mr L replied No, I dont  the police dealt with all 
that. as there was nobody in the car. Mr L didnt say he spoke with the other cars 
owner but the call handler wrongly assumed he had by saying the person you were 
speaking to. I think thats also the reason she assumed Mr L had spoken with the 
owner of the fence at the time as well. But the evidence doesn't support her 
assumptions.
sequence of events
Tesco also questioned the timings Mr L gave in the relation to the sequence of events. 
The accident happened just after midnight; he said he was concussed and collapsed 
in a field; that he walked to a hospital and that at one stage he went to his ex-partners 
address. Tesco said the timings didnt match up.
Mr L explained that being in the area was emotional for him because his ex-partner 
lived there. He had also been involved in an accident where he was hospitalised and 
that he had passed out in a field. I therefore dont find it surprising that some of his 
timings and the sequence of events might not be seamless. I dont think its 
reasonable to conclude Mr L has been misleading because part of the sequence of 
events he gave is not orderly.
conclusion
Mr L was involved in an accident where he crashed his mothers car. He accepted he 
was at fault for that. Tesco have not put forward any convincing argument why the 
accident or the claim is anything other than genuine. Their only concern appears to be 
their perceived inconsistencies in Mr Ls account which I have addressed above and 
explained why I think they are mistaken.
For Tesco to refuse the claim on the basis of making a false statement or 
misrepresenting or withholding information there has to be convincing evidence. But I 
dont think there is. I therefore intend to uphold this complaint and require Tesco to 
now deal with the claim under the terms of the policy.
This matter has been ongoing for over a year and Im aware it has been a source of 
distress and inconvenience for Mrs L and Mr L. To address the impact of that I intend 
to require Tesco to pay them a total of £400 compensation.The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Both Mrs L and Mr L, and Tesco 
accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and given both parties 
have accepted my provisional decision, my decision remains the same.
Putting things right
Tesco Underwriting Limited must:
Deal with the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Pay Mrs L and Mr L a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to:
Deal with the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Pay Mrs L and Mr L a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs L 
and Mr L have accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at a rate of 8% a year simple.[1]
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
[1] If Tesco consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs L and Mr L how much they have taken off. They 
should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman