DRN-2020747
The complaint
Mr A is not happy with the service received from HSBC UK Bank Plc regarding his personal 
loan 
What happened
Following a re-mortgage HSBC applied an Early Repayment Charge to Mr As mortgage. At 
the time Mr A said he was unable to repay this charge and complained to the bank. HSBC 
did not uphold this complaint and the matter was referred to this service. It was suggested 
that HSBC offer the ERC as an interest free loan which it did. I am not going to comment 
further on this since it is the subject of a previous decision. It is explained here for purely for 
background. 
Paperwork regarding the interest free loan was sent to Mr A on 28 June 2017 and the loan 
was set up on 5 July 2017. HSBC have said that the loan was in arrears from the outset and 
it wrote to Mr A regarding the missing payments. Those letters were sent to an incorrect 
address and so Mr A raised a complaint with HSBC regarding this. HSBC provided a 
response to Mr As concerns on 28 December 2018 and advised that if he remained 
dissatisfied he could refer his complaint to this service. Mr A did not do this. 
Following his complaint Mr A contacted HSBC again regarding further letters he received 
about his loan and was provided with conflicting information each time he called. In one call 
he was advised that there was no such loan, in another call he was advised that the 
outstanding monies owed were on a current account, and in another call he was advised that 
the account was closed and no further action was due. At other times Mr A was promised a 
call back and his call was not returned. 
Mr A complained to HSBC regarding the service that he had received. HSBC upheld part of 
Mr As complaint about the service from the contact centre when Mr A called to discuss the 
loan. It accepted that the service had fallen short of what was expected and offered Mr A 
£250 to reflect the failure in service. Mr A rejected that offer. 
HSBC did not uphold the aspect of the complaint regarding the loan and explained that once 
an account fell into arrears it was sent to the collections department. After seven missed 
payments in the collections department the account defaults and is closed. HSBC said that 
the letters had been sent to the correct address and had not been returned to them. Mr A 
was not happy with the response he received and therefore the matter was referred to this 
service. 
An investigator looked into things for Mr A and concluded that the offer made by HSBC was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and that she could not ask HSBC to do any more 
than it had already offered. Mr A asked for the matter to be reviewed by an Ombudsman and 
therefore the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A feels strongly about this matter. And I can understand his concern. Mr A 
sought to keep HSBC informed of his position and now feels frustrated that his credit file has 
some adverse entries. 
With regards to the letters being sent to the wrong address. The bank sent its final response 
to Mr A on 28 December 2018. Mr As complaint form is from November 2019 and therefore 
is out of time for me to consider this aspect of the complaint. Mr A doesnt appear to dispute 
that he referred his complaint about the missing letters to us too late. But for the avoidance 
of any doubt, from what I have seen in Mr As submissions it does seem likely hes time 
barred from raising a complaint about this with our service. As a result, my decision here will 
focus on his later concerns regarding the further letters received regarding the loan and the 
service Mr A received from HSBC over the telephone. 
Mr A says that he had not received any communication from HSBC regarding the loan, 
although he doesnt dispute the existence of the loan. I have seen a letter dated 28 June 
2017 detailing the loan amount, the repayment period, and the interest rate. In that letter Mr 
was provided with the pre-contract credit information, key points about the loan agreement, 
the agreement itself, and the direct debit mandate. Mr A was asked to sign and return the 
loan agreement and direct debit mandates within 30 days from the date the letter was 
received by Mr A. Mr A confirms that he received this letter on 3 July 2017 and that he 
returned it within days. He says that there was note on the letter to return the paperwork 
within a couple of days but I have not seen this. In any event its clear that Mr A was aware of 
the loan amount, the repayments and the fact that the loan had been set up following the 
complaint to this service. I believe that HSBC provided Mr A with the relevant information in 
respect of the loan. 
Mr A says that he subsequently asked for the loan to be cancelled but HSBC ignored this 
request. I have not seen a request to cancel the loan within the evidence that I have been 
provided from both parties. However its clear from what I have said above that the ERC was 
correctly applied and that Mr A was liable to make payment for the charge. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect HSBC to then cancel the loan when the purpose of the loan being 
interest free was to assist Mr in a period of difficulty. I dont believe that its fair for me to ask 
HSBC to cancel a correctly administered loan. 
Mr A told us that he couldnt afford the loan and I think that HSBC has tried to help. I have 
seen a letter from HSBC to Mr A dated 9 March 2018 which was sent by recorded delivery to 
the correct address that asks Mr A to contact the bank to propose an acceptable repayment 
plan. In that letter HSBC advises that they have taken steps to remove any adverse entries 
from Mr As credit file. Mr A didnt contact HSBC and HSBC have confirmed that no payment 
plan is in place. 
I can see from the evidence provided to me that that Mr A was sent three default letters 
regarding the missed payments on the loan in 2018 and 2019 including a final demand letter 
in November 2019 to his home address. HSBC have advised that they did not receive any 
letters returned undelivered and as such I think they are entitled to believe that those letters 
were delivered. After the initial default letter was sent Mr A paid a nominal amount towards 
the loan for the following five months according to the loan statement. The default letters 
detail the loan amount, amounts owed and the consequences of not paying. Since Mr A didnt make the payments at the required times HSBC is entitled to have that fact recorded 
on its credit file. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable of me to require it to remove any such 
entry. 
In response to the investigators view Mr A raised some issues that he felt had not been 
looked into. The first being that it is not his responsibility to keep the bank updated with his 
address details and that the bank is responsible for sending demand letters to the correct 
address. I acknowledge Mr As frustration and agree that his address was the same. The 
bank did acknowledge an error had been made at the time and offered £150 in recognition of 
that mistake. The issue with the address was resolved by Jan 2019 and subsequent letters 
were sent to the correct address and the business is entitled to believe that Mr A received 
those letters. 
Mr A has said that he is unable to afford the loan. This is something that he should discuss 
directly with the bank and it might be able to offer some help and support if Mr A is having a 
hard time. While I understand that Mr A has said that he cant afford the repayments and that 
its damaged his credit file I am not going to ask the bank to do anything more. From what I 
can see the loan was correctly administered and the bank hasnt been unfair in how it has 
treated Mr A.
I can see from the file that Mr A was provided with confusing information regarding his loan 
when he called the bank. HSBC have accepted that the service that he received fell short of 
what it would have expected and offered to pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  Having reviewed the complaint I think that the offer is fair and reflects the 
inconvenience to Mr A. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £250
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman