DRN-3644806
The complaint
Ms S says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that interest and late payment charges she paid on the account from when she 
was given a credit limit increase in March 2013 be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a shopping account Studio Retail provided to Ms S. The account 
was opened in August 2012. From the available information it seems that the opening 
credit limit was around £800 and that by February 2014 this had been increased to £1,650. 
It was then reduced in August 2014 to £1,500. 
Our adjudicator initially upheld this complaint from March 2015. This was largely based on 
Studio Retail only having limited information prior to that date due its data retention policies 
But having received further information from Ms S, he decided instead to uphold it from 
January 2014, when the credit limit was increased from £,1050 to £1,350 .
Studio Retail said it didnt agree that it was fair for our adjudicator to uphold the account for 
a time where it has retained only limited information. So, as Studio Retail disagrees with 
our adjudicator, the complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why he now thinks Studio Retail shouldnt have 
provided Ms S with any further credit from January 2014 onwards, when Ms Ss credit limit 
was increased from £1,050 to £1,350. Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at 
the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with Ms S, based on the evidence and 
information provide by both Studio Retail and Ms S, with a view to seeing if there was a point 
at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it 
shouldnt have increased Ms Ss credit limits.
We dont have details of the exact checks Studio Retail carried out when it opened the 
account in 2012. Whilst I can see Ms S had other unsecured borrowing that she owed at 
the time, and had taken out at least two pay day loans shortly prior to the account being 
opened, I dont think it was necessarily unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved 
the account. I say this taking into consideration that at that time Ms S didnt have any 
defaults or other issues recorded on her credit files. 
Going forwards, having noted that the available information shows Studio Retail was giving 
Ms S regular credit limit increases, I would have expected it to have carried out credit 
checks on each occasion. But I also think, given the frequency of the limit increases, it 
would have been proportionate for Studio Retail to have taken steps to verify her income 
and committed expenditure. Our adjudicator noted that by August 2013, when Ms Ss credit 
was increased to £1050, Ms S was already using a significant amount of her available 
credit. By this time Ms S had been unemployed for several months (having been made 
redundant in May 2013) and so her financial situation was likely to be deteriorating. Ive 
seen from Ms Ss credit report that Ms S had two loans in place at the time she was 
granted the account which she was still paying off at this point, plus a significant amount of 
unsecured borrowing. Whilst the impact of this may not yet have been immediately evident 
from her credit file, had Studio Retail enquired about her job income and committed 
expenditure at that point it would have seen that her employment status had changed. And 
I think that had Studio Retail carried out better checks, it would have seen that Ms Ss 
financial situation was becoming further stretched. 
From what Ms S has told us, I can see that by January 2014 Ms Ss circumstances had 
worsened further. Ive seen she had a county court judgement registered against her in 
December 2013, plus account defaults in January 2014. Ive also seen that Ms S was 
making constant use of her overdraft at around this time and was reliant on monthly benefit 
income of around £700. She also took out a further payday loan that month and was 
continuing to service existing pay day loans that had been taken out in the previous three 
months.  
I think it follows that when giving Ms S the further credit limit increase in January 2014, 
Studio Retail ought to have carried out checks on Ms Ss income and committed 
expenditure at that time. Had it done so it is very likely that it would have found that Ms S was getting into serious difficulty with managing her finances to the extent that her total 
level of borrowing was unsustainable. In the 12 months that followed, the amount Ms S 
owed continued to increase and by May 2014 she had started getting into arrears and 
missing payment dates. Ive seen that Ms S remained unemployed until December 2014.
To summarise, I consider that Studio Retail actions in further increasing Ms Ss credit limit 
from January 2014 had the effect of worsening her financial situation by making the 
account unaffordable to her and unsustainable going forward. So Studio Retail should put 
things right.
And notwithstanding that by January 2018 Ms S had reduced her credit to the point that 
she could pay off the balance, she went on to build up further debt once again, to the 
extent that it went over the previous credit limit of £1,050 that had been granted in 
August 2013, when late payment and overpayment fees were incurred. To further clarify, 
the redress I award from January 2014 only applies to account balances that exceed that 
credit limit in place before that increase. 
I would add that I would expect Studio Retail to continue to act with appropriate 
forbearance in seeking to support Ms S in her efforts to find a fair and manageable way to 
pay back any balance that is still owing on her account.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Ms Ss account to ensure that from January 2014 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to £1,050 (being the credit limit in place before that 
date), including any buy now pay later interest, to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Ms S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Ms S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on her credit file from January 2014 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Ms Ss credit file from January 2014 
onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Ss complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman