DRN-3604556
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Amtrust Europe Limited has applied the terms of his legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to Amtrust includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened.
In July 2021, Mr W took out LEI cover  underwritten by Amtrust  along with his 
home insurance. 
In October 2021, Mr W contacted Amtrust because he wanted assistance with a 
property dispute. His concern was that a property developers plans encroached on 
his propertys boundary, and so, he wanted legal advice as to how to best proceed. 
Amtrust said Mr Ws concerns about the developers plans dated back to October 
2020. So, it was satisfied the claim, he was seeking to make was connected to a 
series of events which first occurred before the policy started and wasnt covered.
Mr W says at the time of submitting his claim to Amtrust legal proceedings hadnt 
started, and so he didnt consider it fair for Amtrust to refuse his claim. 
Following a further back and forth, in November 2021, Amtrust told Mr W that a claim 
for establishing his propertys boundary wasnt an insured incident as required under 
the policy  namely, a trespass, nuisance, or physical damage to his property. And 
so, there wasnt a valid claim. It said that should any of these events occur; Mr W 
should contact Amtrust to see what assistance it could provide. 
Mr W enquired about hypothetical future claims, and whether, if the developer started 
proceedings, hed have legal cover. 
Amtrust told Mr W that if the developer started legal proceedings, cover was unlikely 
to apply as cover under the property section was only for pursuing claims, not 
defending them, unless Mr W had a legitimate counter claim or could have issued his 
claim first. It reiterated that there would also need to have been a nuisance, trespass, 
or physical damage to his building  which hadnt yet happened. Amtrust added that 
it would consider cover on receipt of all the relevant information. 
Mr W disagreed with Amtrust  highlighting that the policy definition of legal claim 
referred to pursuing and defending legal claims. He also said information on the 
policys sellers website suggested legal cover for defending claims was included. 
Mr W was subsequently served with a party wall notice, and he considers this to be 
the point at which a legal claim arose. Mr W says that as this occurred during the 
policy term, cover should be granted.  
Amtrust maintained its position that there wasnt a valid claim. So, Mr W brought a 
complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered it and was satisfied the incident giving rise to a legal 
claim could be traced back to before the policy started, and so, he thought Amtrusts 
decision was fair. He explained that any concerns regarding the sale of the policy 
needed to be directed to the seller.  
Mr W remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document which says: We do not cover [] Legal 
costs for a legal claim arising from [] where the date of incident arose prior to the 
commencement of this Legal Expenses Cover.
Date of incident is defined as The date of the event; or the date of the first event 
where there is more than one event arising from the same cause; or the date on 
which the cause of action arises where this relates to the purchase of your home or 
your second home; which may lead to a claim under this policy.
Im satisfied the policy makes it clear that where an incident, which gives rise to a 
legal claim, arises before the start of the policy, cover wont be provided. 
At the time of submitting his claim form, Mr W wanted legal advice to help him 
establish and assert his propertys boundary. 
So, the issues I have to consider are whether the dispute about the propertys 
boundary can be traced back to having occurred before the policy started, and 
whether the legal nature of the claim is covered by the policy. Ill consider these 
points in turn.
Amtrust has said the incident giving rise to the legal claim pre-dates the policy start 
date as Mr W said on the claim form that his concerns about his propertys boundary 
first occurred in October 2020. On its face, this suggests the matter did pre-date the 
policys inception.
Mr W considers that as legal proceedings hadnt started and there hadnt been a 
nuisance, trespass, or physical damage to his property prior to the policy starting, his 
claim and any future claim should be covered. But this complaint doesnt turn on 
whether an insured event or legal proceedings happened before the policy started. 
Instead, whats key is whether a dispute arose prior to the policy starting which may 
lead to a legal claim.
To determine this, Ive looked at the evidence provided. In his claim form Mr W 
details how from October 2020 to June 2021 hed expressed concerns about the developers plans. Its also apparent there had been correspondence between Mr W 
and the developer about how to move forwards as an agreement couldnt be 
reached. The fact there was a continuous dialogue because the parties had reached 
an impasse satisfies me the dispute was ongoing and that its reasonable to conclude 
a legal dispute may have arisen from it. 
But even if I was persuaded Mr Ws timeline of events was just for context  as hes 
suggested - of note is that he specifically says the developer had in May 2021 said it 
would resort to litigation if a resolution couldnt be met. Significantly this was also 
prior to the start of the policy. So, again its reasonable to conclude the issues 
concerning the boundary may have resulted in legal proceedings. 
Although I appreciate it was Mr Ws intention to resolve the boundary dispute 
amicably, that doesnt have a bearing on how the policy terms should be interpreted - 
which are clear in that if an incident which gives rise to a legal claim can be traced 
back to before the policy started then cover isnt provided. And Im satisfied based on 
what Ive seen the events which occurred prior to the policy starting are linked to the 
claim Mr W was seeking to make. 
Mr W thinks Amtrust has previously supported his position that there hadnt been an 
insured event prior to the policy starting and that this means any future claim should 
be covered, but Im not persuaded by this argument, and Ill explain why.
Having read the email, Im satisfied Amtrust were instead illustrating that if Mr W 
wanted to make a claim under the property section of his LEI policy, the legal claim 
would need to be about a nuisance, trespass, or physical damage to his property. 
Meaning claims about property issues - but which didnt relate to one of these - 
wouldnt be covered, which includes Mr Ws claim for legal support to establish his 
propertys boundary. But in any case, I would be unlikely to direct Amtrust to cover 
uninsured matters even if an agent had been unclear or made a mistake within a 
communication. 
Mr W says Amtrust has incorrectly said the policy doesnt provide cover for defending 
property claims, but I dont agree. I say this because under the section We cover the 
following it says, Protection of property - Legal costs for pursuing a legal claim []. 
Furthermore, under We do not cover it says, Protection of property  defending 
any dispute other than defending a counterclaim. So, whilst other sections of the 
policy may include defending legal action, Im satisfied the applicable policy sections 
make it clear there isnt cover for defending property legal disputes. So, I dont 
consider the advice Amtrust has given in respect of this to be incorrect. 
Mr W has said the policy was mis-sold as the sellers website suggests cover for 
defending legal action is provided. If Mr W has concerns about the sale of the policy, 
hell need to direct these to the seller of the policy. 
Amtrust has explained that if Mr Ws circumstances change, and a nuisance, 
trespass or physical damage to his property occurs, he should contact Amtrust so it 
can assess the claim - though it added the claim would unlikely be accepted if the 
incident was linked to events which pre-dated the start of the policy. 
Its not clear if Mr W had LEI cover in place with another insurer prior to this policy 
commencing, but if he did, he might want to consider contacting that insurer.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman