DRN-3214464
The complaint
Ms O and Mr S's complaint is about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company
Limiteds handling of a claim under the legal expenses section of their home insurance 
policy. 
Liverpool Victoria use claims-handlers to deal with claims and complaints on its behalf but 
for ease, I will refer to Liverpool Victoria, as it is responsible for its claims-handlers actions. 
What happened
In September 2019, Ms O and Mr S contacted the legal helpline provided with the policy as 
they wanted to make a claim for cover in relation to a neighbour dispute. Their neighbour 
was obstructing their right of way with their cars and by erecting a fence, causing them 
nuisance. Ms O and Mr S had contacted the policy helpline about issues with the same 
neighbour in 2017 but had not wanted to pursue any action at that stage. 
  
Liverpool Victorias panel solicitor, that provides the helpline, carried out an assessment of 
the claim. They refused the claim initially as they thought the incident giving rise to the claim 
had started before the policy. This was not the case and Ms O and Mr S provided further 
information to confirm theyd had the policy since 2010, which was well before the dispute 
had started. However, in the meantime Ms O and Mr S instructed a solicitor themselves and 
incurred legal costs of £720. Their solicitor apparently said they had good prospects of 
succeeding in their claim. 
Liverpool Victoria says this advice on the prospects of the case was subject to a number of 
caveats and the solicitors also said the advice would depend on the outcome of a surveyors 
report. However, Liverpool Victoria agreed that panel solicitors would be instructed to assess 
if the claim had reasonable prospects and to progress the matter if they were satisfied it was 
covered under the policy. They were instructed at the beginning of December 2019.  
However, Ms O and Mr S were unhappy with the panel solicitors and complained about them 
in May 2020. Liverpool Victoria initially said that as they were unhappy with the proposed 
action the solicitors wanted to take, it could not answer a complaint about the solicitors as 
they are regulated by their own professional body and act independently. However, it did ask 
the panel solicitors for an update on the case and confirmation that the case has reasonable 
prospects of success, a pre-requisite of cover under the policy.
Ms O and Mr S remained unhappy with the panel solicitors and made a formal complaint 
about them in July 2020. They asked if their own solicitor could act. In the meantime, I 
understand the fence was removed in February 2020 but was then reinstated in July 2020 
(and is still there now).
The panel solicitors confirmed the claim had good prospects and proceedings would be 
necessary. Liverpool Victoria therefore agreed to Ms O and Mr Ss chosen solicitor acting for 
them. However, Liverpool Victoria asked the solicitors to agree to certain terms which they 
said were not acceptable (such as no interim payments of costs, among other things). It was 
therefore agreed that they would instruct a new panel solicitor.
The second panel solicitors provided a report on the claim in early September 2020 and said 
prospects of success were 50% (below the policy requirement of 51% or more) but 
recommended that the claim be accepted for further investigation and asked for a  
surveyors report to be carried out in order to complete the assessment. Ms O and Mr S 
were told they would have to pay for the surveyor. 
Ms O and Mr S complained about the second panel solicitors. They say they failed to 
provide their report on the case within an agreed time. They are also unhappy about being 
asked to pay for a surveyors report, as this should have been obtained by the first panel 
solicitors. Ms O and Mrs S say they expected the second panel solicitors to just get on with 
the case but instead Liverpool Victoria asked them to assess the case again, which was 
unnecessary. Ms O and Mrs S asked to use their own solicitors again, as they had lost faith 
in Liverpool Victorias panel solicitors. Ms O and Mr S made another complaint in December 
2020. Then on 18 February 2021, Liverpool Victoria confirmed they had the freedom to 
choose their own representative albeit a legal assessment would be needed by a barrister.
At the time they first brought the complaint to us, in March 2021, Ms O and Mr S asked for 
their claim to be authorised and for their own solicitors to act. In the meantime, matters have 
progressed and moved on considerably. 
In July 2021, a barrister reviewed the case and said he thought there were 60  65% 
chances of success on the right of way and trespass (from an overhanging garage). He 
recommended funding for a site visit. The barrister and solicitor attended the property in 
September 2021 and reaffirmed his opinion on the case. As a result of this they sent a new 
letter of claim to the neighbour. I understand it was confirmed by Liverpool Victoria in 
September 2021 that there would be cover to issue the court proceedings. The solicitors 
issued a letter of claim to the neighbour and, as the neighbour did not respond, they drafted 
the relevant court papers. I understand they were aiming to issue the court proceedings in 
January 2022. There was a meeting between the parties and their representatives in 
February 2022, at which it was agreed that a surveyors report would be obtained. 
As the matter has moved on, Ms O and Mrs S have now asked for considerable 
compensation (including loss of earnings for Ms O) for the delays in the case, as they say 
the neighbour dispute would have been resolved in their favour a long time ago and they 
would have been spared the ongoing stress if it were not for failures by Liverpool Victoria. 
Liverpool Victoria acknowledged that the claim was delayed unnecessarily in their first final 
response letter dated 7 September 2020 and offered to reimburse the £720 Ms O and Mr S 
paid for legal advice. However, it says it is not responsible for the way the legal claim was 
handled by any of the solicitors involved and says it dealt with matters promptly and 
reasonably when it was aware of them. 
Liverpool Victoria says the policy provides cover for disbursements that are necessary as 
part of the legal proceedings but will not cover the cost of investigations into whether a 
policyholder has a legal claim or not. It says that if the second panel solicitors advise the 
claim has reasonable prospects and is proportionate to run then it will confirm cover but this 
is reviewable throughout the life of a claim. The second panel solicitors were therefore 
required to assess the claim. And in any case, solicitors would always conduct their own 
assessment. 
Our initial conclusions 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She thought Liverpool Victoria was 
responsible for a total of around eight months delay in the case progressing. However, the Investigator didnt think there was enough evidence that the matter would have been 
resolved if it were not for these delays, given the pandemic and effect this had on the court 
system at the relevant time. The Investigator also said that as Ms O had already been 
signed off work in September 2019, she was not satisfied that her being unable to return to 
work was solely due to the delays by Liverpool Victoria. 
Having considered everything, the Investigator recommended Liverpool Victoria pay £1,500 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim.
Ms O and Mr S do not accept the Investigators assessment, as the compensation does not 
adequately reflect the trouble caused to them and put them back in the position they would 
have been in had the delays and mishandling of their claim not occurred. Ms O and Mr S 
have made a number of submissions in support of their initial complaint and in response to 
the Investigator, which Ive summarised below: 
They were misled over how the insurer and the panel solicitor would handle the claim 
and no surveyors report was instructed. 
The panel solicitors sent a letter threatening action against the neighbour, if they  
didnt remove the fence. But it was not followed up with any legal action, so their 
neighbour became emboldened and added further obstructions in the driveway.
They needed prompt action to get an injunction against the neighbour but the delay 
meant the chance to do this was lost and the failure to get the injunction (as 
commented on by their barrister) may affect the success of their legal case. 
Their own solicitor would not act as they could not agree to Liverpool Victorias  
restrictive terms of appointment, including an hourly rate below that of a qualified 
solicitor. Liverpool Victoria knew the policy would cover the County Court guideline 
rate for a qualified solicitor, so this is tantamount to fraud. 
They asked for their solicitor to be authorised to act in order to take prompt legal 
action but Liverpool Victoria deliberately ensured they would not be willing to act for 
them. As their own solicitor wouldnt agree Liverpool Victorias restrictive terms, they 
had no option but to accept another panel solicitor. However, Liverpool Victoria did 
not convey to the new panel solicitors the urgency of the situation and failed to 
disclose a number of key documents. These documents would not be in Liverpool 
Victorias favour and so they consider this to also be a deliberate act of fraud.
They want the surveyors report and a valuation of the diminution of value of their 
home paid for under the policy. 
Their own solicitor was able to meet face-to-face and assess the case within an hour 
or so but the panel solicitors took four and a half months. 
They requested a face-to-face meeting with the first panel solicitors, they said they 
would arrange this but it never happened.
Ms Os needs as a disabled person have not been respected and reasonable 
adjustments (including having a face-to-face meeting) have not been made.
By February 2021, it was still not confirmed that their claim would be covered and 
they have had to ask repeatedly for clear confirmation it would be covered. 
The insurer won't confirm whether they will definitely cover all legal costs/solicitors 
fees - they keep being vague, saying they'll 'assess' this.
Ms O and Mr S also want to take action against their neighbour for harassment. 
Liverpool Victoria told them that while the policy does not provide cover for stand-
alone claims in harassment, it would consider tagging it onto another claim. So it 
could be added to the nuisance claim. They have plenty of evidence to support the 
harassment claim and as its representative told them it would be covered, Liverpool 
Victoria should confirm that it will honour that so that counsel can include the 
harassment element in the particulars of claim.
Liverpool Victoria is required to instruct suitably qualified lawyers but the first panel solicitor allocated their case to an unqualified paralegal. They had already provided 
an opinion from a properly qualified and experienced specialist property solicitor in 
Autumn 2019, who had already assessed (before even the neighbour installed their 
additional fence obstruction) that they had a good case.
Insurers must also be responsible for ensuring that their chosen panel solicitor firm 
adheres to the terms of the insurance policy and FCA principles when carrying out 
work on behalf of the insurer. The panel solicitors failed to do so and this has not 
been addressed by the Investigator and no compensation offered for the damage 
and distress caused. 
They only agreed to the appointment of the insurers panel solicitor firms as they had 
a reasonable expectation that they would be of a suitable quality to handle our claim 
and because they expected the claim to be progressed rapidly and seamlessly.
The merits of their claim may be adversely affected by the delay in pursuing the court 
proceedings.
Their claim couldve been bought to a successful conclusion over a year and a half 
ago. Instead, they are in a much worse position than before they started the process.
Having no access to their right of way has reduced the value of their home and 
causes significant inconvenience every day: they cannot access their car properly 
and the additional shunting to get the car out is causing damage to their driveway.
They have both been caused a huge amount of unnecessary distress and anxiety by 
the delays, poor advice, constant changes of mind and the state-of-limbo, while also 
dealing with an aggressive, abusive, unreasonable neighbour. 
This distress has been magnified for Ms O given her disability (an anxiety-disorder) 
which Liverpool Victoria and solicitors were aware of at an early stage.
Liverpool Victoria has breached the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principles 
for businesses and other relevant insurance and consumer law and has committed 
fraud but this has not been acknowledged or addressed by the Investigator. 
And it has failed in its obligations to treat the case with priority under the Equality Act 
2010 needed to be handled quickly and efficiently from the start to avoid causing her 
any further injury/detriment. 
The Investigator has totally dismissed the impact of the repeated mishandling on    
Ms Os health, wellbeing and ability to work. 
Some of the impact on them will not be known until the conclusion of the legal 
proceedings. 
Despite the urgency of the situation and the ongoing detriment to them both, 
Liverpool Victoria took the full eight weeks to respond to their complaint but the 
Investigator failed to acknowledge Liverpool Victoria missed the complaint response 
deadline, that it mishandled the complaint and that it has still not reimbursed their 
solicitors costs (which should be paid with interest). The mishandling of the 
complaint process has exacerbated the stress for them. 
Having to engage with all the different entities involved with the claim and complaint, 
and having to repeatedly revisit the issues, is extremely stressful and time 
consuming.
Ms O has been unable to return to work as a result of this ongoing issue and so has 
lost significant income. They ask what evidence would be accepted to prove this loss 
of income (e.g. medical reports).  
There is also a second issue in relation to their property boundary that needs to be 
dealt with.  Legal advice has been to keep that issue separate from the current one 
and to only begin to tackle it after conclusion of the current issue. Therefore, until the 
current issue is resolved they cannot even begin to address that issue, which is 
another cause of stress and anxiety to them. 
The insurers legal helpline completed a telephone claim form on their behalf, which 
they submitted for an insurance assessment. The claim form was inaccurate. This 
was breach of General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR). Ms O and Mr S have submitted a schedule of loss they say is a direct result of Liverpool 
Victorias handling of the claim. This includes additional damage to their property; diminution 
of value of the house because of the legal dispute (which will take longer to recover due to 
the delays by Liverpool Victoria); loss of earnings of just under £40,000 and also loss of 
pension; £10,000 damage to Ms Os employment reputation due to the time off work; and 
distress and inconvenience (as a result of additional time involved in dealing with the matter, 
dealing with the obstructions at home etc) to them both of over £11,500.
Liverpool Victoria doesnt accept the Investigators assessment either, as it says it is not 
responsible for the actions of any of the solicitors involved. It accepts there was a delay of 
around a month due to the misinformation at the outset but, as Ms O and Mr S were able to 
get legal advice which theyve now offered to pay for, it doesnt think this caused any 
detriment. 
It appointed panel solicitors in December 2019 and didnt hear anything more until May 
2020, when Ms O and Mr S asked for details of its complaint procedure which was provided. 
Ms O and Mr Ss full complaint to Liverpool Victoria was not received until mid-July 2020, so 
it couldnt have done anything more before then. It was not clear what the issues with the 
panel solicitor were and Ms O and Mr S made clear they did not want Liverpool Victoria to 
treat the matter as a formal complaint until they had clarified their points in writing.  Liverpool 
Victoria asked panel solicitors for details of their response to the complaint a few days after 
receiving the complaint letter from Ms O and Mr S. And as the panel solicitors confirmed 
proceedings were likely to be needed soon and the case had reasonable prospects it agreed 
to Ms O and Mr Ss own choice of solicitor going forward. Liverpool Victoria says it sent 
terms to them on 27 July 2020 and it could not have acted any quicker than this. As the 
solicitors wouldnt agree the standard terms, they instructed second panel solicitors on 19 
August 2020. As prospects have to be assessed on an ongoing basis, the solicitors tried to 
assess the case but Ms O and Mr S didnt provide the information they asked for to enable 
them to do this. 
As they remained unhappy, Liverpool Victoria says it asked for details of another non-panel 
solicitor they might want to act in October 2020 but didnt receive details of any solicitor from 
Ms O and Mr S with this information until May 2021. Liverpool Victoria says it did not cause 
all the delays in the case and even if it did, the compensation proposed is not reasonable.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
In the meantime, I understand Liverpool Victoria has agreed to pay for counsels opinion on 
the potential harassment claim. The neighbour also offered a settlement, which Ms O and   
Mr S say is not acceptable, as it would still mean their right of way would be blocked. The 
solicitors advised the claim still has reasonable prospects.  
Ms O and Mr S have also made a complaint about the handling of a previous claim, 
unrelated to this one, and about issues with renewal documentation. This decision only 
addresses the handling of the claim relating to the neighbour dispute. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initial refusal of claimIt is not in dispute that there was a delay in the claim being progressed in September 2019, 
as Liverpool Victoria had not provided the panel solicitors, that operate the helpline and deal 
with the initial claim process, the correct information about how long Ms O and Mr S had 
held their policy. Liverpool Victoria has offered to reimburse the legal costs they incurred in 
getting urgent legal advice and says there was no other detriment caused by this. I dont 
agree. This happened at a stage when Ms O and Mr S were clearly anxious to get urgent 
advice and were incorrectly refused cover under their policy. They had to then find their own 
solicitors to provide advice and had to fund that outlay. In its final response letter around a 
year later, Liverpool Victoria offered to reimburse those costs but I understand has not done 
so yet. 
It was not until December 2019, around three months later that the panel solicitors were 
appointed to progress the claim.  This would undoubtedly have caused some stress and 
inconvenience to Ms O and Mr S and was entirely avoidable in my opinion. 
Ms O and Mr S are also adamant this affected their chances of getting an injunction against 
the neighbour and resolving the dispute sooner. There is no convincing evidence to support 
this but I accept that action could have been taken sooner, if the solicitors had been 
instructed sooner. I will address compensation for this later in this decision. 
Handling of the claim from December 2019 to July 2020
Ms O and Mr Ss policy, like all other legal expenses insurance policies, requires any legal 
case to have a reasonable chance of succeeding in court in order to be covered under the 
policy. We would therefore consider this to be a 51% or more chance of the legal case 
succeeding, throughout the life of the case. This is not unfair or unreasonable. 
It is normally for a claimant to establish they have a valid claim under an insurance policy, so 
this would mean Ms O and Mr S would have to establish the likelihood of success of their 
legal case. However, ordinarily legal expenses insurers will ask a solicitor to advise at its 
own costs. Ms O and Mr S provided an opinion from their own solicitor but Liverpool 
Victorias panel solicitors also assessed the case.  
The policy also, again like most legal expenses insurance policies of this kind, provides that 
once proceedings are required the policyholder may choose their own appointed 
representative. This means that until proceedings are required, Liverpool Victoria has the 
right to appoint one of its panel firms. Again, this is not inherently unfair. 
The claim was then passed to panel solicitors in December 2019. Much of Ms O and Mr Ss 
complaint is about the way this firm dealt with the claim, including not following up the letter 
sent to the neighbour and not obtaining a surveyors report among other things.  
We do not assess the merits of the legal claim, or the conduct of the legal case, that is not 
within our expertise. Our remit is to assess complaints about regulated activities, such as 
carrying out an insurance contract. Therefore, in a case such as this, we can only assess 
whether the insurance claim has been dealt with fairly.
We also do not hold legal expenses insurers responsible for the solicitors they may appoint 
when handling a claim. The solicitors are not agents of Liverpool Victoria and are not sub-
contractors as such, even if they are appointed by them. It is not therefore vicariously liable 
for any acts or omissions on their part. They are independent professionals and the insurer 
has no right to interfere or dictate how they conduct the actual legal case. And any complaint 
about the service provided by the legal professionals involved in this case should be directed 
to the relevant body - the Legal Ombudsman.Liverpool Victoria does still have some responsibility however, including to ensure as far as 
possible that the solicitors it appoints to act on behalf of policyholders are suitable and 
appropriate for the instructions in question. I havent seen any independent evidence that 
either of the panel solicitors firms were not suitably qualified to deal with this matter or that 
Liverpool Victoria should have been aware of any deficiencies in their service. 
Liverpool Victoria also has a duty to consider any general complaint made about any 
solicitors acting under the policy and treat its policyholders fairly, if there are any issue that is 
within its power to resolve.
Given this, I am not able to look into most of the issues, Ms O and Mr S have raised, such as 
the refusal of face-to-face meetings, not making a site visit, and not seeking an injunction 
against the neighbours in 2020. Liverpool Victoria is also not responsible for the time taken 
by the first panel solicitors to deal with any legal issues between December 2019 and May 
2020. 
Ms O and Mrs S made Liverpool Victoria aware they were unhappy with the first panel 
solicitors in May 2020. However, they said they did not want it to be treated as a formal 
complaint until they had set out their complaint fully in writing. This was done in mid-July 
2019. I do not think Liverpool Victoria could have done much more during this period than it 
did. Once it received this letter, Liverpool Victoria asked for the panel solicitors response to 
the complaint. The panel solicitors confirmed prospects and that it was approaching the 
stage where proceedings would be required. 
As they were unhappy with the panel solicitors, Liverpool Victoria therefore agreed to Ms O 
and Mr Ss own solicitors being appointed to progress the claim at the end of July 2020. 
Having considered everything, I do not consider that Liverpool Victoria could have done 
much more during this period. 
Fraud allegation 
I understand Liverpool Victoria offered to pay Ms O and Mr Ss solicitors £150 per hour plus 
VAT to act under the policy. They asked for £192 per hour plus VAT. Liverpool Victoria 
agreed this rate around a week later but the solicitors still refused to act as they didnt accept 
other terms, such as waiting until the end of the case to be paid. Ms O and Mr S say that the 
terms offered to their solicitor were restrictive and unfair. And that offering the lower hourly 
rate initially was tantamount to fraud.
The policy does not set out the hourly rate that will be paid but provides for reasonable legal 
costs. Liverpool Victoria offered a lower rate initially and within a reasonable time agreed to 
a higher rate that was apparently acceptable to the solicitors. Offering a lower rate initially 
does not amount to fraud. 
The solicitors were still unhappy with the other terms. However, because a legal expenses 
insurer's liability is restricted to indemnifying unrecovered costs, we have long taken the 
approach that it is within insurers rights to wait until the conclusion of a case before paying a 
claim. The insurer may agree, at its discretion, to make interim payments, but we would not 
usually require it to do so. I understand Liverpool Victoria did offer to make interim payments 
to the solicitors here but they were still not willing to agree the terms. 
 
Overall, I do not think Liverpool Victoria acted unreasonable in regards to the appointment of 
these solicitors. And as they would not agree to the terms required by the policy, it was 
agreed that another panel solicitor would act.  I think this was reasonable. Handling of claim from August 2020 to May 2021
The second panel solicitors were appointed on 19 August 2020. I consider this to be within a 
reasonable time. Ms O and Mr S are very unhappy that they assessed the prospects of the 
claim again and say Liverpool Victoria should have made clear to them the urgency of the 
case and instructed them simply to proceed with the legal claim. 
As stated above, solicitors are independent professionals and so will always carry out their 
own assessment of a case. I do not think it reasonable to expect solicitors to simply issue 
proceedings or carry out legal work without doing their own assessment of the case and how 
it should be conducted. And, again as stated above, it is a policy requirement that any claim 
has reasonable prospects throughout its life and as this can change depending on the 
evidence that comes out as the case progresses, it is reasonable for this to also be 
reassessed at stages throughout a case. 
The solicitors asked for more information from Ms O and Mr S, including I understand that 
they obtain a surveyors report. It was for the solicitors to determine what evidence they 
thought was needed. 
I do not think that Liverpool Victoria acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it dealt with the 
transfer to the second panel solicitors.  
Should survey have been paid for by Liverpool Victoria?
I can understand why Ms O and Mr S were unhappy at being asked to fund the cost of and 
obtain the surveyors report themselves when the claim had previously been accepted as 
covered by the policy. It had been accepted that their property rights were being infringed. A 
surveyors report would be necessary to determine the details of that (and I understand it 
was agreed later to obtain one jointly) but given theyd established a prima facie case, I do 
think this was evidence required as part of the case and therefore should have been covered 
under the policy. 
It seems the legal case didnt progress much between September 2020 and May 2021. 
Liverpool Victoria did offer to appoint Ms O and Mr Ss own choice of solicitor in October 
2020 and they were communicating about that but there was the issue of the surveyors 
report and they were unhappy with the panel solicitors. I think Liverpool Victoria could have 
done more to resolve this issue during that time period, especially regarding the surveyors 
report.  
Handling of claim from May 2021 onwards
It was then agreed that Ms O and Mr Ss own solicitors would be appointed. I understand a 
barrister has also been involved. Their barrister confirmed reasonable prospects of success 
and this was sent to Liverpool Victoria in August 2021. The barrister suggested a site visit 
which was done at the beginning of September 2021 and cover for proceedings was  
confirmed later that month. 
Ms O and Mr S says this left just a few months before part of their claim would be out of time 
(i.e. the garage trespass). The letter of claim expired at end October 2021 but the barrister 
was drafting the particulars in December 2021, with just four weeks to go before the expiry 
date of their claim.
There was a recent query about cover for an added nuisance claim and what the barrister 
could include in the particulars of claim to be submitted to the court. Liverpool Victoria 
confirmed that if counsel supports that the harassment claim would help the nuisance claim and had reasonable prospects, it would be covered. I can see it also agreed to fund 
counsels opinion on this. Proceedings were issued and the case has progressed. 
Ms O and Mr S say they were caused additional stress and worry about possibly being too 
late to bring their claim and this would not have happened if it were not for the delays by 
Liverpool Victoria earlier in the claim process. I will consider this 
However, I can see no evidence of any delays by Liverpool Victoria during this period and 
think it acted reasonably in confirming cover for the harassment claim, if it would assist the 
main nuisance claim. 
Complaint handling and GDPR
Ms O and Mr S are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria took too long to respond to their 
complaint. A respondent business has up to eight weeks to respond to a complaint but if it 
fails to do so within that time, the consumer can ask us to look into the complaint without the 
businesss response. Sometimes it will be possible to issue a final response sooner but 
Liverpool Victoria was allowed to take up to eight weeks to do so. Indeed, it doesnt have to 
provide a response at all  although it is obviously good practice for it to do so. 
While I appreciate Ms O and Mr S were anxious to be able to progress their legal claim, I do 
not consider that any award is appropriate for this. 
Ms O and Mr S also say that there was a breach of GDPR by the helpline solicitor who 
completed an insurance claim form inaccurately. At the relevant time, the panel solicitors 
were instructed to act on Liverpool Victorias behalf, so I consider that it was reasonable for 
the solicitors to process the information and complete the required forms. They are required 
to process that data accurately and Ms O and Mr S say that because mistakes were made 
about the dates of their cover, this was a breach of the regulations. While all businesses are 
required to take reasonable care when dealing with a customers data, sometimes things go 
wrong and mistakes are made. I will address the impact that mistake had on Ms O and Mr S 
below. I do not consider that any additional award is appropriate to penalize the business for 
a data breach, as we do not regulate such matters. 
Compensation 
Ms O and Mr S are adamant that all their suffering in the last few years is a result of 
Liverpool Victorias handling of their legal expenses claims. They say that if a robust letter 
had been sent to the neighbour, with the support of a full surveyors report, with court 
proceedings to swiftly follow if the neighbour did not fully comply then their neighbour have 
agreed to remove the obstruction during mediation, if not before, and the matter would have 
been resolved a long time ago.
This has clearly been an upsetting and stressful saga for Ms O and Mr S. Any legal dispute, 
especially with a neighbour, is an extremely difficult experience. They have said Ms Os 
health in particular has suffered as a result. There is no medical evidence to support this, as 
far as I am aware, but I have no doubt it would have been extremely frustrating and stressful 
that this took so long to resolve. Having said that, Ms O and Mr Ss expectations about 
compensation are somewhat unrealistic (even if Liverpool Victoria was responsible for the 
entire period it took from September 2019 to now, which for the reasons given above I dont 
think it was) even taking account of Ms Os health conditions. 
There is no convincing evidence to support that the dispute would have been resolved by 
now, if it were not for the delays on Liverpool Victorias part. The lawyers took the action they 
considered appropriate at each stage and Liverpool Victoria is not responsible for their handling of the case. There was the initial delay and delay in late 2020 to mid 2021. I have 
not worked out exactly how long is attributable to Liverpool Victoria, as it is impossible to be 
so accurate but I agree with the Investigator that it would have been around eight months 
additional delay.  
I also note that this dispute had already been going on for two or three years before this 
claim was made and there are no certainties about how the neighbour would have 
responded at any stage. I note the neighbour is contesting the claim and alleges that Ms O 
and Mr S have trespassed on their land. So I am not convinced that the legal case would 
have been resolved in 2019/2020, as Ms O and Mr S suggest, if it had not been for the 
delays Liverpool Victoria is responsible for. 
Having considered all the evidence, I agree with the Investigator that the total sum of £1,500 
compensation is warranted. This is to reflect the delays that were attributable to Liverpool 
Victoria and the consequences that flowed from that (including the stress of getting their own 
legal advice, not agreeing to pay for the surveyors report, various delays and concerns 
about being able to proceed with all their claims) especially in the context of Ms Os health 
conditions. 
Loss of earnings
To be able to make an award for loss of earnings, I would have to be satisfied that Ms O has 
incurred loss of earnings solely and directly as a result of Liverpool Victorias wrongdoing. 
Ms O was signed off work in September 2019. The reasons for her leaving work then were 
unrelated to this dispute. However, Ms O and Mr S say that she would have been able to 
return to work had it not been for stress caused to her by this ongoing claim, which should 
have been resolved long ago. Ms O and Mr S have provided a lot of information about Ms 
Os condition and I have no doubt whatsoever that this has been an incredibly difficult period 
of time for her. 
Ms O and Mr S have described their neighbour as being aggressive and abusive and 
theyve said theyve had problems with them since 2016. They told us that they were aware 
this might lead to a legal property dispute in 2017 but Ms O was not strong enough to deal 
with it then, so they notified Liverpool Victoria but left it in abeyance until 2019, by which time 
the neighbour had got worse and they had occasion to call the police in August 2019. 
So I can see that the ongoing dispute might have affected Ms Os ability to resume working. 
However, as I am not satisfied it has been established that the claim would definitely have 
been resolved much sooner, I do not consider that the fact she is still not back in work is 
entirely due to anything done wrong by Liverpool Victoria. 
I am not satisfied that Liverpool Victorias mishandling of the claim is the sole reason Ms O 
has not been working since September 2019 and so am also not convinced that I can 
reasonably require Liverpool Victoria to pay any amount for loss of earnings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do the 
following:  
1. reimburse Ms O and Mr S for legal costs incurred in 2019, (on production of suitable 
evidence of them), together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date they 
paid the costs to the date of reimbursement; and 2. pay Ms O and Mr S £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman