DRN-2780400
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided poor customer service after he reported 
that he had been the victim of a scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr L is unhappy with the service he received after reporting the fraud on his account. 
This includes being placed on hold for long periods of time, being hung up on, and 
also receiving poor service when he went into the branch to change his password. 
HSBC have provided copies of the calls they had with Mr L. I can see they explained 
that there was a wait to speak to their fraud team due to the busy Christmas period. 
And I appreciate he had to wait some time before being able to speak to them. But I 
dont consider that he had to wait for an overly unreasonable length of time. I also do 
not consider it would be fair and reasonable to expect a business to compensate 
their customers for all of lifes unexpected inconveniences (such as being placed on 
hold), and the time they have to devote to carrying out such administrative tasks.
HSBC also set up the fraud claim on the day they were made aware of it by Mr L, 
which was when they also contacted the receiving bank to see if the money could be 
recovered from the beneficiary account. I appreciate there was an issue with the 
fraud claim forms not being completed correctly, but this doesnt appear to have 
hindered the investigation into Mr Ls claim. So Im not persuaded that HSBC have 
caused any avoidable delays when looking into the matters he reported. 
Mr L further submits that he was grossly mistreated by HSBC when he visited their 
branch on 29 December 2020, where he was subjected to threats of violence by a 
member of staff. This is particularly concerning, and as Im sure Mr L will appreciate, 
such a serious allegation would need to be substantiated by persuasive evidence to 
corroborate his claims. However, other than Mr Ls testimony, there is no other 
persuasive evidence available to support his allegations. I also note that some of the 
details Mr L reported about his visit to the branch have turned out to be false, such as 
his two-year old son not being present, who he originally said the branch staff had 
sworn in front of. So I wont be asking HSBC to take any further action with regards 
to these allegations. 
I also understand that Mr L feels he has been discriminated against due to the 
problems he has experienced. I appreciate he would have been frustrated at times 
with the process he had to go through to report the fraud on his account. But theres 
no evidence that HSBC have treated him any differently as a result of a protected 
characteristic. So Im not persuaded that HSBC have discriminated against Mr L in 
these circumstances.  
Mr L has also reported concerns regarding HSBCs handling of his complaint, such 
as it not being logged, as well as compensation that he says was offered but later 
withdrawn. However, as explained by the investigator before me, complaint handling 
is not an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This service is 
unable to consider any complaints that do not concern a regulated activity. So Im 
afraid I will not be able to comment on any of Mr Ls concerns regarding HSBCs 
handling of his complaint. 
In summary, I can understand that Mr L would have been frustrated by process of reporting 
the fraud he fell victim to, and that this would have been a particularly stressful time for him. 
And while I appreciate that in some instances HSBC could have provided a better service, 
Im not persuaded that it warrants an award of compensation in these circumstances. So it 
follows that I will not be directing HSBC to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman