DRN-4395276
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Usay Business Limited mis-sold them a personal private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs B held a personal private medical insurance policy with an insurer Ill call P. 
Theyd been insured by P for a number of years. The policy was fully underwritten and 
provided cover for Mr and Mrs Bs existing medical conditions. One of these conditions was 
endometriosis, which Mrs B had been diagnosed with some years before. P had paid for 
consultations and treatment under the policy. 
In June 2022, Mrs B spoke with Usay, as their renewal quote with P was more than Mr and 
Mrs B could afford. Usays adviser explained the options available to Mr and Mrs B. These 
included switching their existing policy with P to a new insurer, which would continue their 
existing medical cover, or taking out a new moratorium policy, which would potentially 
exclude cover for their existing medical conditions. The adviser recommended that Mr and 
Mrs B should switch their policy with P to a new policy with an insurer Ill call A.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs B decided to accept the advisers recommendation and they took out 
a switch policy with A. However, they later complained to Usay that the policy had been 
mis-sold to them. Thats because A had turned down a claim theyd made for treatment of 
Mrs Bs endometriosis on the grounds that it considered Mrs Bs condition was chronic. Mr 
and Mrs B said theyd only taken out the policy with A because theyd understood it would 
provide the same cover as their previous policy with P.
Usay didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B. It maintained that its 
advice had been suitable for them. And so Mr and Mrs B asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Usay had mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs B. He felt that the 
advice to switch their existing policy from P to A had been suitable. He considered that 
Usay had recommended a policy which provided cover for Mrs Bs endometriosis. He didnt 
think Usay could be held responsible for As claims decision.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I dont think Usay has 
treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
Usay recommended that Mr and Mrs B should switch their existing policy with P to a new 
policy with A. This means it needed to ensure that it carried out an assessment of Mr and 
Mrs Bs demands and needs and that its advice was suitable for them. It also needed to give 
Mr and Mrs B enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that they 
could decide if it was right for them.
Ive listened carefully to the calls between Mrs B and Usays adviser. Im satisfied that the 
adviser asked Mrs B clear questions about her existing cover with P; what cover she and Mr 
B wanted; their preferred hospital list and about their medical history (including information 
about their childrens health). Im also satisfied the adviser clearly explained the cover 
options which were available to Mr and Mrs B and the ways in which each type of policy 
worked  in particular, the difference between a switch policy and a moratorium policy.
Both Mr and Mrs B had existing medical conditions. Having listened to the calls, it seems to 
me that continuing cover for endometriosis was important to Mrs B. So, in my view, a 
recommendation to switch the existing cover with P to a policy with A was suitable and 
appropriate for Mrs Bs needs. Thats because a switch ensured that Mrs Bs endometriosis 
would be accepted for cover under the policy with A. If Mr and Mrs B had opted for 
moratorium cover, endometriosis would have likely been excluded for at least two years  
and Mrs B was concerned that the excluded period could be even longer. And I can see from 
the policy documentation that the policy with A was set-up on switch terms (continued 
medical exclusions), which meant that Mr and Mrs Bs medical underwriting was carried over 
from their policy with P to their policy with A.
It seems A hasnt paid Mrs Bs claim because it considers that its caught by a policy 
exclusion for chronic conditions. However, that doesnt mean Usays advice to switch 
policies wasnt suitable. Its still the case that cover for endometriosis itself wasnt excluded 
from the policy with A  claims for endometriosis could be considered in line with the policy 
terms. It was down to A to assess whether or not the claim was payable under the terms of 
the contract. Usay isnt responsible for assessing - or indeed authorised to assess - whether 
or not a claim is likely to be successful. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I find Usays 
recommendation to have been suitable, given cover for endometriosis was in place  even if 
ultimately, A didnt pay the claim for another reason. 
I note Mr and Mrs B consider that if theyd remained with P, the claim is likely to have been 
covered. But having listened to the calls between Mrs B and Usay, it seems Mr and Mrs B 
had already decided to cancel their existing cover with P due to the price. So it isnt at all 
clear that even if Usay hadnt advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy with A; theyd still 
have had a policy with P in place to potentially claim on. And it also isnt at all clear that even 
if Mr and Mrs B had renewed their cover with P, any future endometriosis claims would have 
been payable.
It seems that Mr and Mrs Bs main reason for switching insurers was because of the cost of 
renewing their existing cover with P. The policy Usay recommended with A was significantly 
cheaper than the policy with P. And the policy Usay recommended included the hospital list 
Mr and Mrs B wanted; along with a cheaper excess and very broadly similar cover options. 
In the round then, Im satisfied that Usays adviser recommended a policy which met Mr and 
Mrs Bs demands and needs. And I find too that Usay gave Mr and Mrs B enough clear, fair 
and not misleading information about the policy and the way it worked so that they could 
make an informed decision about whether it was right for them.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs position, Im satisfied that Usay met its 
regulatory obligations when it sold this policy to them. And I think its advice to switch to the 
policy with A was suitable and reasonable. So it follows that I dont think Usay mis-sold the 
policy to Mr and Mrs B and that Im not directing it to refund their premiums.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman