DRN-3658342
The complaint
Miss P complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd treated her unfairly in 
the way it handled her car insurance claim.
What happened
Miss P made a car insurance claim after her car was stolen from outside her partners home. 
Shes unhappy that Berkshire Hathaway cancelled her policy when the claim was made, only 
to reinstate it later and ask her to pay the remaining premium in full. Miss P says she wasnt 
given the option of paying in instalments and this caused her financial difficulty.
Miss P adds that the insurer made an error with its claim decision, provided a poor service to 
her when she tried to make contact and caused delays. Miss P says this has affected her 
financially, as shes had to take time off work, she had to live away from home during the 
claim and that she wasted time attempting to collect the car. Miss P also says she was 
unfairly charged £600 excess when she was informed by Berkshire Hathaway that it would 
be £350.
Berkshire Hathaway didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. The insurer said it cancelled the policy 
as a protective measure to avoid any potential liabilities whilst the car was stolen. The 
insurer explained that the excess Miss P was charged was accurate and apologised for any 
delays to the claim. Miss P remained unhappy and asked for this service to review her 
complaint  she wants Berkshire Hathaway to pay her £400 compensation.
Before one of our investigators issued their view, Berkshire Hathaway offered to refund 
Miss P £250 from the excess she paid, as it identified it had made an error in the advice it 
gave her. Our investigator felt this was fair and added that, although the insurer had made 
some errors, he concluded that Berkshire Hathaway need not do anything more  this was 
given the fact that Berkshire Hathaway had paid the claim despite identifying a valid reason 
to decline it. So the investigator felt that Miss P had received a far more favourable outcome 
that what the investigator wouldve awarded in potential further compensation.
Miss P didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also think that Berkshire Hathaways offer to refund £250 of the excess 
Miss P paid is a fair way to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Upon notification of Miss Ps claim, Berkshire Hathaway decided to cancel the policy. The 
insurer says that this is so it could protect itself and Miss P from any potential liabilities. I 
dont find this unreasonable. At the time, there was no knowing what had happened to 
Miss Ps car and what further incidents could occur, so I think it was reasonable that the 
insurer took steps to protect itself and Miss P from any liability. 
Miss P is unhappy that, when her car was found and the policy reinstated, Berkshire 
Hathaway asked her to pay the full remaining premium. Miss P says this caused her 
financial difficulties. Although the insurer initially said that full payment of the premium is 
standard in these circumstances, it recently recognised that it shouldve offered a new 
payment schedule to Miss P. Id normally consider whether Berkshire Hathaway should pay 
Miss P compensation for the impact of its error. But for the reasons Ill explain later, I dont 
think it would be fair to do so.
Miss P says the insurer caused unreasonable delays to her claim. This meant she was 
without her car for longer than required. Berkshire Hathaway hasnt been able to confirm 
whether Miss P was given a courtesy car around the time. But Ive looked at the duration of 
the claim and I can see from the details the insurer provided, that it had taken around a 
month after the insurer collected the car for it to be ready to be returned to Miss P. I dont 
find this to be an unreasonable amount of time and I havent seen anything that makes me 
think that Berkshire Hathaway unfairly delayed the claim.
Looking at the terms of Miss Ps policy, it seems she was indeed correctly charged £600 
excess. Miss Ps policy had a voluntary excess of £250, a compulsory excess of £100 and a 
£250 young drivers excess  which Miss P needed to pay given her age around the time of 
the claim. However, Ive listened to a copy of a call Miss P had with Berkshire Hathaway, 
during which it seems she was wrongly advised that she wouldnt have to pay the young 
drivers excess. The insurer has accepted it made an error here and has offered to refund 
the £250 young drivers excess Miss P paid. I think this is a fair way to resolve this part of 
her complaint. 
Miss P has also raised other concerns  that the insurer didnt return her calls as promised, 
that she was left living elsewhere during the claim and that she had to make several wasted 
trips in attempts to collect her car. We asked Miss P for more information around these 
comments, but we didnt hear back from her. And I havent seen anything else that makes 
me think all these issues occurred because of something Berkshire Hathaway did wrong. 
At one point during the claim, Berkshire Hathaway decided that it wouldnt pay the claim at 
all  the insurer relied on the fact that a door in Miss Ps partners home was left unsecured. 
So Miss P wouldve likely needed to cover the costs of the repairs herself. Berkshire 
Hathaway says that its repairer had incorrectly begun repairs, so it felt a fairer approach 
would be for it to continue the repairs and cover the costs. 
Berkshire Hathaway has shown us that the overall costs of the claim totalled around £3,800. 
So I agree that Miss P has been placed in a more favourable position, given shes been 
covered for a claim that the insurer seems to have had valid reasons not to accept. 
Moreover, the claim value far exceeds any further compensation I may have awarded, had 
the claim not been paid at all.
So for that reason, although there does seem to be some errors on the insurers part, it 
seems to me that Miss P has benefited substantially by having her claim covered to the 
value of several thousands of pounds - despite the insurer appearing to have cause not to 
pay the claim at all. So I wont be asking Berkshire Hathaway to pay anything more than 
what it has already offered to pay Miss P.
Putting things right
Berkshire Hathaway acted unfairly when it gave Miss P incorrect information about the 
excess she would need to pay. The insurer has offered to reimburse Miss P the £250 it said 
she wouldnt have to pay. If Miss P accepts my decision, Berkshire Hathaway should refund 
this amount to her.My final decision
My final decision is that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd has offered a fair 
resolution to this complaint. If Miss P accepts the offer, Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd should pay her £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman