DRN-4065563
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information about the incentive for 
switching his current account to them.
 
What happened
Mr W used HSBCs online chat to ask for information about the switcher offer of £200. 
Following this, he completed an online application. Mr W says he was assured during the 
online chat he would be eligible for the £200. Mr W was asked to attend a branch to provide 
identification twice, but in the end was told he wouldnt be eligible for the £200 incentive 
payment  because hed held an HSBC account too recently. Mr W complained to HSBC. 
HSBC responded to say they hadnt given any assurances about Mr Ws eligibility for the 
£200 in the online chat hed had with them. But they accepted hed been inconvenienced 
because hed been into the branch a couple of times during the time the application was 
being processed  they offered him £20 in recognition of this.
 
Mr W wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered what had happened. He said, in summary, he also didnt think HSBC 
had given any assurances about Mr W being eligible for the £200 payment. He was satisfied 
Mr W had decided to go ahead with the application himself, including agreeing to a credit 
search being made. The Investigator did say he thought £20 was fair in recognition of the 
fact Mr W had made two trips to the branch. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he wanted HSBC to pay him £60. Our Investigator asked HSBC 
if theyd be willing to do that, but they said they werent. 
As Mr W didnt accept our Investigators findings, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of HSBCs Current Account Switching Service Switcher Offer said 
customers would not be eligible for the offer if:
You are an HSBC current account holder on the date of the application or have been on or 
after 1 January 2019. 
Mr W contacted HSBC at about 10:55pm on 21 December 2022 via their online chat service. 
The Switcher Offer was expiring that night. Ive reviewed the entire transcript of this 
conversation  the agent did not give Mr W any assurances that he would be eligible for the 
£200 payment. Mr W decided to go ahead with an application. 
Mr W later discovered that he wasnt eligible for the £200 payment because hed previously 
held an HSBC current account which was closed in September 2021. So, he decided to not 
go ahead with the switch. 
Mr W is unhappy that he had to make visits to the branch to provide identification when the 
application was being processed. HSBC have explained this was for security reasons 
because some of the details Mr W had submitted as part of his application didnt match the 
details they already held for him. So I dont think this was unreasonable, to ask him to do this 
in the first instance. But HSBC have accepted that Mr W was sent a second message asking 
him to attend the branch when he didnt need to  so I agree Mr W was inconvenienced by 
this second visit to the branch. Theyve offered Mr W £20 in recognition of this and I think 
this is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr W is unhappy HSBC carried out a credit search as part of the application. HSBC has 
provided a screenshot of the relevant part of their current account application process. 
Under the heading Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) Information it says Well search 
and share your information with CRAs and A record of our search will be held with the 
CRAs. So I think HSBC made it clear that they would conduct a search and that search 
would be recorded on Mr Ws credit file. 
On the same page  in order to continue with the application  applicants are required to tick 
a box to confirm theyve read all the information and agree to the terms and conditions of the 
account. Mr W must have ticked this box in order for the application to have been processed. 
So Im satisfied he agreed to the credit search being carried out by doing so. 
Mr W also says HSBC have since removed the search from his credit file. Hes provided a 
screenshot which shows a search was due to be removed, but this doesnt say which search 
was being removed. Either way, Im satisfied for the reasons Ive already explained HSBC 
was entitled to record the search, so if they have now removed it, this would be to Mr Ws 
benefit and isnt something I would have required them to do. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc have already made an offer to pay Mr W £20 in settlement of this 
complaint. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr W £20. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman