DRN-3709096
The complaint
Mr P complains Allianz Insurance Plc has unfairly delayed a settlement in relation to a home 
insurance claim and previous complaint.
Mr P is represented by his surveyor, Mr S.
What happened
In 1999, Mr P made a successful subsidence claim. Vegetation was removed, and Allianz 
undertook crack repairs and redecorations. 
Mr P went on to report further issues at the property. In 2003, Allianz accepted the property 
was still suffering from subsidence. However, Allianz also said a major factor was the lack of 
connection between the different types of construction, where the two extensions adjoin the 
original property. It said that such differential movement wasnt covered. Nonetheless, in 
2004, Allianz undertook structural repairs to the left flank wall. This was after Mr P had 
completed some private works, to resolve the damp issues at the property.
In 2016, Mr P contacted Allianz again. He thought the property was still moving due to the 
appearance of some cracks and gaps. The property was also suffering from further damp. 
Allianz undertook level monitoring and damp investigations. 
Allianz concluded the monitoring readings showed no significant movement. It also said the 
damp investigations found the damp issue was a long-standing problem that related to the 
construction and build of the property, not its previous repairs. Mr P complained about 
Allianzs further claim decision.
In June 2021, I issued a final decision. I upheld the complaint in part. My final decision was 
accepted by Mr P, so it became legally binding on Allianz. In my final decision, I directed 
Allianz to:
- cover the cost of replacing the render system on the left flank wall (including costs 
relating to the boiler, if impacted), or undertake these works itself (if an agreement 
cant be reached about the scope of works required, the cash settlement, or the 
terms of Allianz doing the work, a further complaint can be made);
- cover alternative accommodation and storage costs if required due to replacing the 
render system on the left flank wall (costs to be agreed in advance, and if an 
agreement cant be reached about the need for, or cost of, alternative 
accommodation or storage, a further complaint can be made);
- cover 33% of the internal damp repair costs, limited to the rooms next to the left flank 
wall, including 33% of the replacement bedroom carpet (if an agreement cant be 
reached about the scope of works required or the cash settlement, a further 
complaint can be made);
- cover 33% of the alternative accommodation and storage costs if required due to the 
internal damp repairs to the rooms next to the left flank wall (costs to be agreed in 
advance, and if an agreement cant be reached about the need for, or cost of, 
alternative accommodation or storage, a further complaint can be made);
- consider further submissions from Mr P about the adequacy of the previous structural 
repairs, or the condition of the wall due to the damp conditions created by the render 
system (should such issues be found when the render system is removed); 
- pay Mr P £850 to rectify the intrusive investigations, if not yet paid. 
- pay Mr P £850 for Mr Ss July 2019 report, if not yet paid; and
- pay Mr P £800 compensation, in total, as recommended by our investigator.
In October 2021, I issued a jurisdiction decision and a final decision on a second case, about 
the certificate of structural adequacy (CSA). To summarise, I couldnt consider whether a 
CSA had been issued in 2004 as the complaint had been brought too late, and I didnt 
require Allianz to issue one now, following its more recent investigations.
In November 2021, Mr P complained to Allianz about the delays since my June 2021 final 
decision. Mr P explained Allianz had unreasonably questioned the application of building 
regulations and the need for building control consent.
In December 2021, Allianz issued a final response to Mr P about his further complaint. To 
summarise, Allianz accepted the new render should comply with building regulations if its 
feasible to do so, and it noted its loss adjuster would ask Mr Ps contractors for a further 
breakdown of their quotes so it could consider the settlement. 
Allianz paid Mr P £200 compensation for the delay caused by its position on the building 
regulations. It also paid £1,500 for Mr Ss professional fees, which were incurred whilst 
disputing that matter.
In January 2022, Mr P asked our service to consider a third case. Mr S provided us with a 
timeline, detailing the events since my final decision in June 2021.
In July 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps latest 
complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not the role of this service to enforce an ombudsmans final decision; thats a matter for 
the courts. If Mr P considers Allianz isnt complying with my June 2021 final decision, hell 
need to obtain legal advice. However, Ive not seen anything that suggests Allianz isnt 
endeavouring to comply with my final decision. 
We are also unable to revisit points that have been the subject of an ombudsmans final 
decision. As such, I wont be commenting any further on Mr Ps previous cases.
I can consider the delays following my June 2021 final decision, in respect of the settlement 
for the remedial works. However, Ill only be considering up to 1 December 2021, which is 
when Allianz issued its final response. This is because, if Mr P is unhappy about events 
since then, hell need to complain to Allianz first, so it has an opportunity to respond. Mr P accepted my final decision in July 2021. Allianz contacted him within two weeks to pay 
the sums I awarded and to explain the next steps in relation to the remedial work. Allianz 
explained it would need to visit the property to draw up a schedule of works, before 
considering Mr Ps quotes. Those steps are in-line with my final decision.
The on-site meeting to discuss the schedule of works went ahead about two months later, in 
September 2021. However, a dispute then followed about building regulations and building 
control. Allianz has already accepted its position was wrong, so I dont need to make a 
finding on that.
Based on Mr Ss timeline, the dispute caused about two months of delay. Allianz has paid 
£200 compensation for that delay and covered Mr Ss professional fees in relation to the 
dispute. The compensation paid is in-line with our approach, and I consider Allianz has 
treated Mr P fairly by paying Mr Ss fees in relation to the dispute. 
So, in conclusion, Im not persuaded Allianz needs to do something further in relation to the 
period between 17 June 2021 (the date of my final decision) and 1 December 2021 (the 
date of Allianzs latest final response).
Based on the information provided, its not clear whats happened since 1 December 2021. 
However, if Mr P is unhappy about delays since that date, or the scope of works and/or 
settlement, he can make a new complaint to Allianz about those matters.
Allianz acknowledged my provisional decision, but it didnt make any further comments. Ill 
summarise Mr Ss response:
- Mr S wasnt copied into Allianzs final response email in December 2021, and he 
wasnt aware of it.
- This service has varied the scope of Mr Ps complaint, which related to the unpaid 
cash settlement following my final decision in June 2021.
- Whats important is the progress made between January 2022 and July 2022 after 
updated quotations were submitted and the issue of complying with building 
regulations was resolved. 
 
- The outstanding critical factor is the implementation of my June 2021 final decision, 
in respect of agreeing the cash settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of the December 2021 final response, whilst Mr S wasnt copied in, its evident the 
email was received by Mr P given he responded to it. Mr P was free to share the email with 
Mr S if he wished to do so.
Whilst Mr S wants our service to make a finding on the claim settlement (which I understand 
is in dispute following the submission of quotes), we arent handling Mr Ps claim. My role 
here is to consider the events between my June 2021 final decision and Mr Ps further 
complaint in November 2021 (which was responded to on 1 December 2021).As I noted in my July 2022 provisional decision, between June 2021 and December 2021, 
Allianz was endeavouring to comply with my June 2021 final decision in respect of 
determining the claim settlement. Albeit, it caused about two months of delay.
I appreciate matters have since moved on, but as I also explained in my provisional decision, 
if Mr P is unhappy about events since 1 December 2021, he needs to make a new complaint 
to Allianz before we can become involved. He can then refer a new complaint to our service 
once Allianz has responded, or after eight weeks if its not responded by then.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, and Mr S, but for the reasons Ive set out above and in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman