DRN-2867468
The complaint
Mr G complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold his van insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr G claimed on his van insurance policy. It had been sold to him by 
Hastings in 2017 and had renewed in 2018. The van had been damaged in a collision with a 
third-party. But Mr Gs insurer wouldnt cover the damage as he didnt have comprehensive 
cover - only third party, fire and theft (TPFT). 
So Mr G had to pay more than £2,000 for the repairs. Hes tried to reclaim the costs from the 
third-partys insurer. But as its based overseas hes been unsuccessful. He says Hastings 
should cover the repair cost as he feels it mis-sold his insurance. He feels it should have 
sold him comprehensive cover  and if it had his insurer would have paid for the repairs. 
Hastings didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said in 2017, during the sale of his 
original van policy, Mr G had selected TPFT cover after being given the choice of that or 
comprehensive cover. It said policy documents provided after the sale, and for the renewal, 
confirmed the level of cover provided. It says it was Mr Gs responsibility to ensure he has 
insurance suitable for his needs. 
Our investigator didnt agree with Mr G that Hastings had mis-sold his insurance. He didnt 
accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. In May 2021 I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. As it forms part of this final 
decision Ive copied in its reasoning below. In it I set out why I intended to require Hastings 
to pay Mr G £1,160 (plus simple interest) and £100 compensation. I also asked Hastings and 
Mr G to provide any information or comments they would like me to consider before issuing 
a final decision. Below I address the responses I received.     
What Ive provisionally decided and why
When selling Mr G the policy Hastings was required, by its regulators general 
principals, to treat him fairly and to provide him with information thats clear, fair and 
not misleading. I intend to decide it failed to do that and caused him to lose out 
financially.
Hastings had arranged Mr Gs comprehensive car policy in 2016. In July 2017 he 
called Hastings to cancel that policy because he needed a policy for his new van 
instead. 
During the phone call Mr G was asked if he wanted comprehensive or third party, 
fire and theft cover. He asked the adviser to repeat the second of those. She replied, 
third party, fire and theft. No explanation of the difference between the two levels of 
cover was offered. Mr G then hesitantly responded with yes, third party, fire and 
theft.    
Considering Mr Gs hesitancy, the value of the van and that TPFT offered a 
significantly reduced level of cover, in comparison to his prior comprehensive policy, I 
think Hastings should have provided further information to ensure he knew the 
difference in the level of cover provided. I think treating him fairly, and having due 
regard to his information needs, would have involved providing at least a brief 
summary of the different benefits and limitations offered by the two levels of cover, 
given that he sounded uncertain when asked the question.  
Mr G says he didnt understand the limitations of a TPTF policy. He says he wasnt 
aware insurance was available that didnt provide cover for the policyholders vehicle 
in the event of an accident. Having listened to the sales call I find this plausible. He 
seemed unsure at the relevant decision point. In addition, he didnt seem to be very 
knowledgeable about insurance in general. For example, protected no claims 
discount had to be explained to him. 
Hastings points out the sale wasnt advised, but was information only. So it was for 
Mr G to ensure the policy was suitable for his needs. I accept that, but it was 
Hastings role, as the firm selling insurance, to provide him with clear information to 
allow him to do make an informed choice. In the circumstances I think it failed to 
provide him with information that was clear and so treated him unfairly.  
Hastings also says Mr G should have reviewed the policy documents provided to him 
after the sale. Ive looked at those. They state the level of cover as TPFT. But they 
dont clearly set out its significant, and relevant limitation. It wouldnt be easy for an 
inexperienced customer to understand their vehicle wouldnt be covered by the policy 
if damaged in an accident. 
This limitation wasnt set out in the Key Facts document. That includes a table 
comparing the features and benefits of comprehensive and TPFT cover. But it 
doesnt explain that only comprehensive provide accidental damage cover for the 
policyholders car. The first benefit listed for TPFT is Courtesy vehicle. It explains 
how one will be provided during repairs to the policyholders vehicle following an 
accident covered under the policy terms. I think a customer might reasonably 
interpret that as their van being covered for accidental loss or damage. 
Overall, I dont agree with Hastings that the policy documents did enough to make up 
its earlier failure to provide fair information. Even if Mr G had checked the 
documents, I think its unlikely he would have understood the relevant limitation of his 
TPFT cover. I feel the same about the very similar information provided for the 2018 
renewal. 
So, in the circumstances Hastings should have done more, during the sale, to explain 
the different cover offered by TPFT and comprehensive. Had it not made that error I 
think Mr G probably would have chosen comprehensive cover. 
I say this as Mr Gs previous policy, for a car likely to be of a significantly lower value, 
was comprehensive. In addition, the van had been purchased on finance and was for 
his employment. So, its seems unlikely he would choose to risk it not being covered 
in the event of an accident. 
I accept comprehensive cover would probably have been provided at a higher cost. I 
also note Mr G was surprised at the price he was quoted for the TPTF cover he was 
offered. But I still think, considering the above, he would have selected 
comprehensive cover had he been given fair information.  It seems likely Mr G would then, at his 2018 renewal, been offered and accepted 
comprehensive cover. He would then have had that in place at the time of the 
collision. So his insurer would have dealt with his claim, most likely repairing his van 
and attempting to reclaim the costs from the third-party. But instead Mr Gs had to 
take on these responsibilities for himself. 
Mr Gs provided information to show he paid £2,160 to repair the car. Hes tried to 
claim against the third-partys foreign insurance policy using relevant agencies. Its 
been a few years now without much sign of progress. Hes taken reasonable steps to 
minimise his loss But, considering the time passed it seems unlikely to me he will 
recover his losses this way now. 
So, I intend to require Hastings to take steps to put Mr G back in the position he 
would have been without its mistake. It seems likely an insurer would have dealt with 
the repairs so he wouldnt have had that cost.
However, Mr G would probably have had to pay a policy excess. Its also likely   
comprehensive cover for 2017 and 2018 would have cost him more. The claim 
record may have resulted in higher premiums for future policies for a few years at 
least. Thats because his no claims discount would have been reduced. And it seems 
unlikely his insurer wouldnt have recovered its claim expenditure, so the incident 
would be recorded as fault claim for Mr G.
I cant know for certain the cumulative financial impact of all this on Mr G. But in the 
absence of anything firm Ive had to decide upon a figure. In my experience £1,000 
seems a reasonable total amount. If Mr G or Hastings can provide more concrete 
calculations for these deductions, Ill consider them.  
So, to put things right for Mr G Hastings will need to cover the £2,160 cost of the 
repairs. But it can deduct £1,000 from that to reflect the expenditure hes likely to 
have incurred had a claim been paid. That leaves £1,160 for Hastings to pay. Its 
caused him to be unfairly without the use of those funds. So, to recognise that it will 
need to add simple interest at 8% from when he paid for the repairs, in February 
2019, to the date of settlement.   
This matter has caused Mr G some inconvenience. He had to arrange repairs and 
pursue the claim against the third party himself. To recognise the impact of this 
Hastings will need to pay £100 compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. But he did refer to losing income because his van 
was out of use for a week or so. He says he had to turn down about £900 of work. I can only 
fairly require Hastings to cover any loss that I feel was caused by its mistake. Id also need 
to see that he took reasonable steps to minimise any loss. Even if Mr G had comprehensive 
cover his van would still have been out of use for a similar period.  Mr G may have had cover that provided a courtesy vehicle during repairs if he had taken out 
comprehensive cover. Even if he did, I still feel its likely he would have had to miss some 
work - to drop off and collect the damaged van for example. But to require Hastings to pay 
Mr G for loss of income, Id need to see that Mr G took reasonable steps to hire a 
replacement van to minimise his losses  but was unable to do so. And thats not the case 
here. In addition, Id need to think it most likely he was unable to rearrange the lost jobs for a 
different time. Overall, I havent seen enough to for me to say Hastings should fairly cover a 
loss of income.
Hastings disagreed with my findings. It explained that the sale was non-advisory. It says that 
means it would set up the insurance based upon what Mr G asked for. I accept that it was an 
information only sale. As I explained in my provisional decision that meant Hastings was 
required to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mr G could make 
an informed choice about the insurance he was buying. I still dont feel Hastings did that
Hastings said when offered the choice of comprehensive cover or TPFT, Mr G answered 
Yeah, just third party fire and theft. It says that suggests he was aware TPFT offered less 
coverage than comprehensive. Hastings hasnt said this specifically, but I assume its 
referring to the just in that sentence. If Mr G did use that word I might agree with 
Hastings. But having listened to the call recording again I dont agree he did. He said Umm. 
Yes. Third party fire and theft. 
Hastings has made various points about Mr G not asking for further information about TPFT 
cover. But for the reasons Ive set out above I feel Hastings, in the circumstances, should 
have offered him more information. Im persuaded he wasnt aware of the limitations of 
TPFT, so had no reason to ask. 
Hastings has again referred to the information sent to Mr G after the sale. That information 
did set out that he had TPFT. It gave some comparison of the different coverage it and 
comprehensive provided. But it didnt clearly set out a signification limitation of the cover  
that Mr Gs policy didnt cover accidental damage to his own van.  As I explained above, I 
think its possible that information would lead a policyholder to believe that damage was 
covered. Overall, I still feel the policy information provided after the sale didnt, in the 
circumstances, do enough to make up for Hastings earlier failure to provide fair information. 
As Mr Gs vehicle wasnt covered under the terms of his policy Hastings said it shouldnt be 
responsible any costs of repair to his van. As I set out above, I feel Mr G would probably 
have had cover for his van if it werent for Hastings mistake. So it should take steps to put 
things right for him. I wont repeat my reasoning for the redress it should pay  thats all set 
out above. I havent been provided with good reason to change my mind about that. 
Hastings will need to pay Mr G £1,160 (plus simple interest) and £100 compensation. 
  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr G:
£1,160  it should add simple interest to this amount from February 2019 to the date 
of settlement. - and 
£100 compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience its caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman