DRN-4037571
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they held with Scottish 
Widows Limited. Their complaint is that:
the policy was mis-sold as undue influence was exerted by Mrs Fs employer to take out 
the endowment policy, despite it being unsuitable for her and her circumstances having 
not been assessed. In addition, the likely returns from the policy were grossly 
exaggerated and were, therefore, misleading; 
they were told at the time of the sale not to cash in the endowment before the end of the 
term, as a large terminal bonus would be payable at maturity. However, no terminal 
bonus was paid;
The funds the policy invested in were mismanaged; and
The administration of their policy and complaint was poor and the £100 offered for this 
was desultory.
Mr and Mrs Fs policy was originally with a different product provider, but Scottish Widows is 
now responsible for the policy, and so I will refer to it throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Fs policy started in 1996. It had a sum assured and target value of £76,000 and 
a term of 25 years. During the term of the policy they were told that the policy was unlikely to 
achieve its target value. On one occasion Mr and Mrs F increased the monthly premium to 
make achieving the target more likely. However, just over a year before the policy was due 
to mature, Scottish Widows again told them that there was a high risk of the policy not 
reaching the £76,000 target  the highest projected return was over £10,000 lower than the 
target.
The policy was due to mature on 2 December 2021 and on 4 October 2021 Scottish Widows 
sent Mr and Mrs F a maturity letter detailing what they needed to do to claim the policy 
proceeds. It explained that they needed to sign and return the enclosed maturity payment 
form. When no response was received, Scottish Widows sent another letter on 11 November 
2021, chasing a response. 
Mrs F called and emailed Scottish Widows a couple of weeks later, having received the 
maturity letter. She asked if the form could be returned by email, in order to avoid postal 
delays caused because they lived overseas. This was agreed and the maturity payment form 
was emailed by Mrs F the same day. Scottish Widows didnt acknowledge receipt of the 
email.
Mrs F called again on the maturity date. She was disconnected, but before she was, she 
was told that the quality of the emailed document had been questioned. After the call 
disconnected, the call handler confirmed that the forms were ok and moved the processing 
of the maturity forward. Mrs F emailed the same day (attaching further copies of the form) 
asking for confirmation about the documents, Scottish Widows didnt respond. 
The following day Scottish Widows sent Mr and Mrs F a letter confirming what the maturity 
value was and that it had been paid to their bank account.
On 6 December 2021 Mrs F called to check about the payment of the maturity value. 
Scottish Widows confirmed that it had been paid and was en-route in the banking system. 
She complained that she hadnt had a response to her email of 2 December 2021. In 
addition, she wasnt happy that the policy hadnt reached its target value, despite them 
having increased the policy premium. They were also unhappy that the maturity value was 
lower than the value she been given when she called a few days before the maturity date. 
Scottish Widows responded to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in its letter of 9 February 2022. It 
upheld the complaint about its administration of the maturity, in that there was a delay in 
responding to Mrs Rs enquiries before the maturity. It paid them £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience that caused them. It also paid an additional £50 compensation for not 
responding to their complaint within eight weeks. However, in relation to the maturity value, it 
confirmed that the policy was unit linked and so its value fluctuated on a daily basis, 
depending on the performance of the assets held within the fund. Scottish Widows 
apologised if the policy hadnt performed as Mr and Mrs F had expected, but was satisfied 
that the investment hadnt been mismanaged.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept Scottish Widows response. They explained that the policy was 
taken out when Mrs F was a member of staff in the banking group that had originally sold her 
the policy. They said that it was drummed into Mrs F that if the policy was maintained to the 
end of the term bonuses would be added to the value, but this didnt appear to have 
happened. Mr and Mrs F highlighted that theyd not been given any information on how the 
maturity figure had been calculated or whether it included bonuses. 
Scottish Widows issued a further letter to Mr and Mrs F. It reiterated that the policy value 
was not guaranteed at any point and the maturity value could have been higher or lower 
than any figures given before that date. In relation to the loyalty bonuses Mr and Mrs F had 
referred to, it explained that loyalty bonuses were paid into the policy at incremental stages 
throughout the term and no end of term bonus was paid.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that it be referred to an 
ombudsman. They said that the investigator hadnt addressed the substantive points made 
in the complaint. They reiterated that they considered that the funds the policy had been 
invested in had been mismanaged and that Scottish Widows had not taken any, or had 
taken insufficient, steps to safeguard the value of the investment in the last five years of the 
policy term. Mr and Mrs F said they considered this was evidenced by the significant 
reduction in the value of the policy in the final days of the term. They indicated that they 
considered this amount of reduction would only be justified by a Wall Street Crash type of 
event, which there had not been. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Fs further comments. She highlighted that they had 
said it wasnt in dispute that the value of policies could fluctuate due to a number of factors. 
She wasnt persuaded there was evidence that the funds or policy had been mismanaged 
and was satisfied that Mr and Mrs F had receive the amount they should have.Mr and Mrs F repeated their request that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. They 
reiterated that they considered the fact that their policy value had dropped in the last few 
days of the term meant that it, and the underlying investment, had been mismanaged. They 
said that they considered that a feasible explanation of the fall in value had not been given 
and that this was disgusting, and they were effectively being asked to accept that the 
performance of a 25-year investment was a total crapshoot with no expertise or 
safeguards supplied.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 January 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
Before I set out my conclusions about the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that 
Mr and Mrs Fs concerns about the policy having been mis-sold will not form part of my 
consideration. This is because for a complaint to fall within my jurisdiction, it must firstly be 
made to the financial business responsible for the act complained about. In this case, 
Mr and Mrs F complained to Scottish Widows about the administration of the maturity and 
the maturity value, including the fact that they believe the policy and underlying funds were 
mismanaged. While their consideration of those matters may have made them question the 
original sale, that is a very different complaint from whether the policy has been administered 
in line with the policy terms and conditions, and whether the funds invested into have been 
managed correctly. As such, if Mr and Mrs F want their complain about the policy being 
unsuitable at the time of the sale, they will need to raise that complaint with Scottish Widows 
before we can become involved. 
I note that Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Scottish Widows took longer than eight weeks to 
provide its response to their complaint. Our rules also set out the matters that we can look at 
These being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, paying money by plastic 
card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary 
activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. However, that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers.
In the circumstances of this complaint the complaint handling wouldnt be considered 
ancillary to the events Mr and Mrs F have complained about. So I cant consider Scottish 
Widows administration of the complaint or whether the compensation paid was appropriate.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially, I will comment on the administration of the maturity. It is unfortunate that due to 
where Mr and Mrs F live, there were delays in them receiving the maturity letter. However, it 
was sent in time for the maturity to happen on time, which is what happened. That said, as 
Scottish Widows acknowledged, it would have been helpful if, given what Mrs F was told in 
her telephone conversation, it had subsequently told her the maturity forms were fine and 
that it was being processed. It was not until four days later that she was made aware that the 
maturity had gone through, and only because she called Scottish Widows. However, as this 
was a relatively short period of time, I think the compensation Scottish Widows has paid is 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
That said, it is clear that Mr and Mrs Fs primary concern is the maturity value of the policy. 
They believe that Scottish Widows didnt protect the policy value as it should have and that 
the funds invested in were mismanaged because there was a shortfall. I can understand why Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that the policy value was less than its 
target and that it decreased in the few days before maturity. This would especially be the 
case given the security condition built into the policy. Such conditions involve the fund value 
gradually being transferred from funds that are very susceptible to changes in the financial 
markets, to one that would not be affected in the same way. This usually occurs over the 
final five years of the policy term. However, while this would significantly reduce the impact 
of negative movements in the financial markets, it would not mean that a policy would be 
completely protected from any such impact, as some of the holding would still be invested in 
the original funds chosen. 
In relation to the maturity value being lower than Mr and Mrs F hoped, unfortunately for 
them, the returns for such policies have been much lower than when they took out the policy 
in 1996. This led to a reduction in the growth rates achieved and necessitated them 
increasing their premium to get closer to their target value. However, even with that 
increase, the policy never guaranteed to reach the target value and the maturity value was 
always dependent on the value of the underlying fund holdings. 
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs F have raised their concerns and it is very unfortunate that 
the policy didnt reach its target value, and that the value decreased in the days before 
maturity. However, that of itself isnt evidence of mismanagement or Scottish Widows acting 
incorrectly.
Mr and Mrs F and Scottish Widows entered into a contract. Mr and Mrs F agreed to pay a 
monthly premium and Scottish Widows agreed to provide life cover during the term. It also 
agreed to provide an investment which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a 
target amount. 
This is where the problem has arisen. The hoped-for growth rates havent been reached - far 
from it - but they were never guaranteed. A shortfall was always possible. Of course, no-one 
thought that would happen when the policy was arranged, but it doesnt change the nature of 
the contract. When those rates were not met, Mr and Mrs F increased the monthly premium, 
but that increase didnt guarantee that the target would be met, it just increased the 
likelihood that it might be.
Mr and Mrs F paid their premium each month and Scottish Widows had to invest the 
premium, taking costs as and when required from the fund. As far as I can see that is exactly 
what it did. Growth over the policy term has turned the premiums paid into a maturity value 
which unfortunately was less than hoped for. Scottish Widows did what it had to do. 
Being able to say that, looking back, different investment decisions would have been more 
profitable than the ones actually taken is a statement of the obvious. To make judgments like 
that, however, would be to use hindsight in making a decision. I cannot use hindsight in 
making a decision. A very large number of decisions over a 25-year period relating to 
investments, costs and charges have been made by the investment managers at Scottish 
Widows. Those decisions were made in a regulated environment with layers of governance, 
independent scrutiny (such as by actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. Some of the 
factors influencing returns were outside its control. Even if I were to try and drill down to 
individual decisions it is very unlikely that I could point to an individual decision or set of 
decisions which were, without using hindsight, so manifestly bad or wrong that redress 
should be paid. 
I am also satisfied Scottish Widows kept Mr and Mrs F informed about the performance of 
their policy over the years. This included telling them just over a year before the maturity 
date that the policy was likely to mature with a much larger shortfall than it did. Mr and Mrs F said in their final submissions that they were being asked to accept that the 
performance of the investment was a crapshoot, by which I take it to mean a high-risk 
gamble. Its not how investment risk is usually described, but yes, there is always the risk 
that a unit linked investment can fall in value significantly in a very short period of time. That 
is why security conditions are often included in such policies. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs F, 
the significant volatility in the financial markets over the past few years and those that were 
starting to emerge at the end of 2021, which have caused investment losses across the 
board, also caused their policy to reduce in value. That doesnt evidence that Scottish 
Widows mismanaged the investment funds or that it didnt do what it was meant to do 
administratively to protect the policy value in line with the terms and conditions. I would also 
comment that its unlikely to have been in the interests of the fund managers to perform 
badly and I am sure Scottish Widows would have wanted the fund to do as well as possible. 
Mr and Mrs F have said that they have not been provided with a breakdown of how the 
maturity value was calculated, including information about the bonuses applied to the policy. 
While this isnt something that would automatically be provided by many product providers, I 
have asked our investigator to ask Scottish Widows to send Mr and Mrs F that information.
Scottish Widows confirmed it had received the provisional decision and had nothing further 
to add. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept my provisional decision and set out a list of questions which 
related to Scottish Widows responsibilities in relation to protecting the value of its investment 
funds and the products invested in them. They also reiterated what they wanted from 
Scottish Widows in terms of evidence to prove to their satisfaction that it had done its job 
properly in this regard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs response to my provisional decision effectively simply repeats that they dont 
think that Scottish Widows did anything to protect the value of their policy as it approached 
its maturity date, or if it did do something, it was inadequate. I can understand they are 
disappointed that the value of their policy was not higher in light of them having increased 
the premium to try to ensure that it reached its target value. It would especially have been 
disappointing that the value of the policy fell in the days before maturity. 
However, as I explained in my provisional decision, it is unfortunately the nature of a unit 
linked policy that the value of the funds it invests in can change considerably in a short 
period of time and this can be reflected in the value of the policy. While life assurance 
companies can build in policy terms that are designed to minimise the impact of poor 
performance or sudden drops in the financial markets toward the end of the policy term, they 
are not able to prevent such events having any effect at all. Mr and Mrs Fs policy matured 
during the global Covid-19 pandemic, which caused uncertainty in the financial markets. 
Unfortunately for them, that impacted their policy value adversely. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs F didnt get the amount they wanted or hoped for from the policy, 
doesnt mean that Scottish Widows did anything wrong and nothing they have said in 
response to my provisional decision has persuaded me that it did. 
Mr and Mrs F have set out information that they want from Scottish Widows. If a policyholder 
asks for information about their policy and the fund(s) it is invested in, I would usually expect a life assurance company to provide it. I have already confirmed that Scottish Widows 
should provide Mr and Mrs F with a breakdown of how the maturity value was calculated and 
the bonuses that were applied to the policy during its term. 
However, Mr and Mrs F have also requested an in-depth analysis of the fund management 
over the five years prior to their policy maturing, with particular attention to the three days 
immediately before the maturity. They want Scottish Widows to build into this report proof it 
did enough to protect the value of their policy. This goes beyond a simple request for 
information, and I dont consider that it is something that Scottish Widows should reasonably 
be required to provide. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman