DRN-2718545
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard). 
when he asked it to process a chargeback.
What happened
Mr W purchased airline tickets in January 2020 at a cost of £604.82. The following day he 
purchased airport parking for £55.99. He made both purchases using his Barclaycard. 
Mr Ws flights were scheduled for April 2020 and the airport parking covered the seven days 
of his trip.
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary foreign travel and the 
country then went in to a full national lockdown. Mr W says he was unable to use the flights 
or the parking and although both providers initially said theyd refund him, they subsequently 
said theyd issue him with vouchers instead. Mr W didnt want vouchers  this was a one-off 
trip that he was unlikely to repeat  so he contacted Barclaycard to ask it to help him get his 
money back. Mr W told us:
he put in a claim with Barclaycard by completing and returning a dispute form on 
30 March, and he also telephoned the bank because hed read in an online forum 
that some chargebacks were being authorised and processed within an hour. He 
says he wanted to understand how the chargeback process worked and the likely 
timescales. But the bank said it wouldnt comment on its internal processes;
he contacted the bank a month later because he hadnt heard from it and was told his 
claim was being dealt with;
the bank questioned whether hed actually paid for the flights himself and asked him 
to provide lots of additional information;
he contacted Barclaycard again on 24 June to raise a complaint because his claim 
hadnt been processed. And he told the bank the delays were causing him distress;
hes now received the refunds, the money was credited to his account on 23 and 
24 June, but hes been given no explanation of what happened and why it took so 
long;
hes unhappy with the service Barclaycard provided; he says his claim took too long 
and there was no communication from the bank about the delay. He says he was 
asked for the same information several times and the delays have caused him stress, 
worry and anxiety.
Barclaycard rejected this complaint. It apologised for the distress it had caused but said it 
had carried out its chargeback investigation correctly. It confirmed Mr W had disputed the 
payments on 30 March and says it contacted him on 29 April because he was unhappy that 
the chargebacks hadnt yet been raised. It says it explained it hadnt been able to review his 
claims at this point because of the number of other claims it had received from its customers.
Barclaycard says it needed some additional details from Mr W in order to assess his claims, 
so it wrote to him on 7 May and then telephoned him on 27 May to get this information. It 
says once it had this extra information, it wrote to him again on 23 June to confirm it had 
credited his account with the amounts in full and it says these refunds wouldve been visible 
on his subsequent statement dated 3 July.
Barclaycard told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all 
categories of dispute were very seriously delayed. Its call centres were closed without notice 
and it had to reshuffle its workforce. Barclaycard apologised for the inconvenience its 
customers experienced but said this had been outside its control. It said it had received 
thousands of travel claims to work through and it had done this as quickly as possible.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld. He said he 
thought Barclaycard couldve communicated better with Mr W  it couldve provided him with 
more general advice and information about the chargeback process which wouldve 
alleviated his concerns. Our investigator explained that it was clear from the banks contact 
notes how important these refunds were to Mr W and the frustration and distress the delays 
were causing him. But he also acknowledged that some of Mr Ws comments to the bank 
were unacceptable at times. Taking everything into account, he thought that Barclaycard 
should pay Mr W £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Barclaycard accepted our investigators opinion and said it would pay Mr W £100.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr W says Barclaycard should be 
paying him compensation in the region of £15,000 for the distress its caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr W received from Barclaycard. This is because although Mr W paid for flights and 
airport parking that he wasnt able to use and was also unable to get a refund from the 
retailers, both parties have confirmed that the chargebacks were successful and the money 
was credited to Mr Ws bank account in June 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask for a payment Mr W made 
to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr W paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr W wasnt provided with the goods that he originally paid for. 
And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect Barclaycard to raise a 
chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within Visas 
chargeback rules.Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Barclaycard to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did. It took more 
than a month to establish that it needed further information from Mr W, and a further month 
to obtain it. Thereafter, the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes and 
the time taken for the money to reach Mr Ws account was in line with what I would expect.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr W. 
Hed booked flights and airport parking, and from what hes told, his experience with the 
retailers wouldve caused him anxiety. Both confirmed they would issue refunds to Mr W, 
later explaining that this would be in the form of vouchers, but Mr Ws circumstances meant 
that he was unlikely to use their services again.
But I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the online 
retailers who caused the initial problems here as they didnt give Mr W his money back when 
it seems they should have.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr W first contacted Barclaycard, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive thought carefully about the service Barclaycard provided. I think it shouldve better 
explained to Mr W the chargeback process and the likely timescales and I think it couldve 
obtained the additional information it needed from Mr W sooner. I say this because Mr W 
has a health condition, the details of which are known to all parties and I think the poor 
service and delays in dealing with his claim wouldve caused Mr W additional worry and 
anxiety. Barclaycard shouldve appreciated this.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Barclaycard to pay Mr W £100 in recognition of the poor service it provided. 
I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think 
Barclaycard needs to do anything more.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr W £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman