DRN-3367363
The complaint
Mr M complains about an invoice he has received from Brazier Consulting Services Ltd 
(Brazier) for work carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
and payday loans. 
What happened
Mr M instructed Brazier to act on his behalf in relation to a number of PPI and payday loan 
claims. Mr M says he provided Brazier with all relevant information and then didnt hear back 
for a while. Mr M says he received a text from Brazier and replied to book a call back, but he 
then didnt hear back from them. Mr M says he then received an invoice for £250 claiming 
that an award had been recovered from a lender. Mr M contacted Brazier and they then 
claimed the £250 was for cancellation charges. So, Mr M complained. 
Brazier responded and explained the cancellation charges had generated on three of his 
claims. They said the claims against Lender P and Lender M required further information 
which Brazier said they had asked Mr M for on numerous occasions but never received. 
And, they had been told that in relation to the claim against Lender L, Mr M had removed 
their authority before Brazier had received their final response. Brazier said they therefore 
charged a cancellation fee in line with their terms and conditions. They also confirmed they 
hadnt received any money from any of the lenders.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. She thought Brazier had acted unfairly in 
charging a cancellation fee and recommended they waive this. Brazier havent responded so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided Brazier with details of the complaint being made against 
them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its important that 
we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In this case, while 
Brazier have provided limited information, they havent responded to our investigators 
requests for further information. 
Im satisfied weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to 
respond. I must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mr M to 
have to continue waiting for an answer to his complaint.   
Theres no dispute here that Mr M instructed Brazier to act on his behalf in relation to claims 
against Lender P, Lender M and Lender L. Brazier have also provided a signed Letter of 
Authority (LoA) for each of these lenders. The dispute here relates to the fee being 
charged. Brazier say this represents cancellation charges, but Mr M says this conflicts with 
the information on the invoice which suggests money has been recovered and the fee 
represents Braziers success fee. And, Mr M also says he has always responded to Braziers 
requests for information so he doesnt understand how they can charge a cancellation fee. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which Mr M agreed when he instructed Brazier. 
Under the heading What we expect from you, it says, To provide us promptly with all 
relevant information and items we request to enable us to pursue your claim. Then, under 
the heading Cancelling this agreement it says, You may terminate the Agreement within 14 
days of the date you sign the Letter of AuthorityIf you wish to cancel after the 14 day 
period, there will be a charge of £40 + VAT per hour for any work undertaken on your case. 
If you withdraw our authority to work on your behalf after the 14 day cooling off period, there 
will be a charge of £40 per hour for any work undertaken.   
Brazier say the cancellation charges have arisen as a result of Mr M cancelling the LoA for 
Lender L, and not providing information for his claims against Lender P and Lender M. The 
LoAs for these lenders have been signed by Mr M in May 2019. And, given that Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr M cancelled his instructions for any of the claims against these lenders 
within the 14-day cooling off period, Im satisfied a cancellation fee is potentially chargeable 
in the event that Mr M doesnt provide information or cancels his instructions to Brazier. 
I can see our investigator has asked Brazier for evidence that Mr M cancelled their authority 
for the claim against Lender L before receiving their final response, but they havent provided 
any evidence of this. Our investigator then approached Lender L direct and asked if they had 
received any contact from Mr M to cancel Braziers authority to deal with the claim. Lender L 
confirmed they have no record of Mr M raising a claim either direct or through Brazier. Given 
that they have no record of any claim being made, it follows that theres no evidence that   
Mr M cancelled Braziers authority to deal with the claim. So, in this respect, I dont think a 
cancellation charge is reasonable. 
In relation to the claims against Lender P and Lender M, Brazier say, despite requesting 
information on numerous occasions, Mr M never provided this. Brazier say they contacted 
Mr M by text and then tried to call on several occasions. They say they made numerous 
attempts to contact Mr M about these claims. I can see our investigator has asked Brazier 
for evidence of their contact with Mr M asking for further information but Brazier havent 
provided any evidence of this. In the absence of this, Ive considered Mr Ms testimony and 
information provided by Mr M which includes emails between him and Brazier.    
Mr M accepts he received contact from Brazier by text and confirms he responded by text to 
book a call back, but he never heard back from Brazier. I can see Brazier then email Mr M in 
February 2020 and apologise for not having been in touch for some time. They confirm 
theyre still working on Mr Ms claims but, given that lenders have received a high volume of 
complaints due to the PPI deadline, there have been delays in processing complaints. 
Brazier say theyll contact Mr M as soon as they hear back from the lenders. 
I can see Mr M then emails Brazier in May to say he has received an invoice for £250 which 
claims he has received an award. Ive seen this invoice and, under the heading Amount 
recovered, it gives a figure of £1,041.66. And, beside this, it says the cancellation charges 
are £208.33  and the total with VAT being £250. Mr M confirms he hasnt received any 
award and still not received a call back regarding Lender P and Lender M. Mr M then chases 
on 1 June and 30 June. Brazier respond on 2 July to say a claims adviser will contact Mr M 
in the next 24 hours. Having not heard back, Mr M chases on 19 July to say he has responded to their texts and sent emails but he hasnt received a response. Mr M chases 
again on 14 September. 
Brazier respond and confirm the invoice Mr M received was for a cancellation charge and 
not for a successful claim so he wont be receiving a refund. Mr M responds and asks how a 
cancellation charge has arisen as he has been trying to contact Brazier for some time. Mr M 
asks Brazier to confirm the position with his claims and whether they require any information 
from him. Brazier respond and explain the cancellation charges were generated as they tried 
to get in contact with Mr M but werent successful. They say Mr M is now liable to pay £250 
for the claims against Lender P and Lender M. Brazier say the claims needed to be 
submitted through a portal but because they were unable to get hold of Mr M, they can no 
longer be looked into. 
Mr M responds and explains its Brazier who havent been responding to his emails. Brazier 
respond and say theyve been trying to contact Mr M since 2019 to get the claims logged 
against Lender P and Lender M but werent able to get hold of him. Mr M responds and says 
Brazier contacted him and said they will be in touch, but despite his many emails, they never 
responded to him. Mr M explains he has received an invoice from Brazier which claims 
theyve recovered some money from a claim but are instead asking for a cancellation fee. 
Brazier respond to say a claims adviser will contact Mr M within 24 hours. Mr M then emails 
Brazier and queries how Brazier havent been able to contact him. He says Brazier sent him 
a text asking him to contact them by phone, email or by replying to the text. Mr M says he 
replied by text on more than one occasion but he then received an invoice for £250 which 
also shows an amount of £1,041.66 which has been recovered. Mr M asks Brazier to deduct 
their fees from the amount recovered and to send him the remainder. Mr M also asks for an 
update on all of his claims. 
Brazier respond and provide an update on Mr Ms claims  this update doesnt include the 
claims against Lender P and Lender M. Mr M responds and asks for an update on these 
claims and about the money which Brazier say has been awarded to Mr M. Mr M then emails 
again and refers to a missed call and text from Brazier about the cancellation fee. Mr M also 
refers to a text message he received from Brazier in June to say they were trying to contact 
him in relation to his claim against Lender M. Mr M refers to his previous emails and asks 
Brazier to respond to the points he has raised. Brazier respond and confirm the invoice was 
worded incorrectly and no money has been recovered. 
From the information Ive seen, I cant see that Brazier, prior to sending the invoice, asked 
for any information from Mr M in relation to his claims against Lender P and Lender M. There 
is a text message in June but I can see Mr M has been in contact with Brazier before this, on 
the same day as the text message, and after the text message. So, I cant see theres any 
evidence that Mr M hasnt provided any information requested by Brazier. I note Brazier say 
they werent able to get hold of Mr M, but the information Ive seen shows Mr M was in 
regular contact with Brazier and it was Brazier who werent corresponding with Mr M in a 
timely manner. 
I note the invoice refers to an amount being recovered but lenders will generally contact a 
customer direct to confirm if the claim is upheld and to pay any award. Given that Mr M 
hasnt received any direct contact from any lender, I believe the invoice is for cancellation 
charges and not a success fee arising out of a successful claim.      
Taking this all into account, I havent seen any information which suggests Mr Ms actions or 
omissions have led to the three claims being cancelled, so I cant say the cancellation fee is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint and 
dont agree Brazier are entitled to the cancellation fees they have claimed. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Brazier havent acted fairly in charging Mr M cancellation fees for the 
claims against Lender P, Lender M and Lender L. So, they should cancel the invoice sent to 
Mr M for these fees.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Brazier Consulting Services Ltd must cancel 
the invoice sent to Mr M for their cancellation fees. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman