DRN-3650577
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds handling of her home emergency claim which 
she says led to carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning.
What happened
Any reference to UKI includes its respective agents or contractors.
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In August 2020, Ms M had her gas meter switched.
In mid-September Ms M felt unwell and she was seeing yellow flames on her cooker. 
Ms M contacted the National Grid helpline explained she had yellow flames on her 
cooker. It said that this could be a CO leak and advised Ms M to turn everything off 
and theyd get someone to attend within an hour. A gas company attended and 
capped off the gas. Ms M says she was admitted to hospital and had a positive blood 
test for CO.
The following day Ms M reported the issue to UKI on its home emergency line to 
report the CO leak.
UKI sent a contractor to investigate, he found no CO readings however, noted 
staining on the boiler flue that he thought was most likely thermal scorching. He 
recommended the flue be replaced and put warning notice on boiler and left it 
switched off.
Late September, UKI arranged for the flue to be replaced. The engineer says that all 
relevant checks were completed in addition to reviewing CO levels and that all tests 
were successful.
Not long after this Ms M was feeling unwell again and she was admitted to hospital in 
early October. Ms M says she was diagnosed as having CO poisoning, severe 
pneumonia, and severe pleurisy. And a shadow was found on one of her lungs.
When Ms M was discharged from hospital she contacted the official list of gas 
engineers  Ill refer to it as company G. However, before an inspector could do an 
inspection Ms M went to accident & emergency again she says she had a positive 
CO blood test and was placed on a nebuliser for several hours before being 
discharged.
Ms M called the gas company and it came and capped off the gas at the meter again.
When G inspected the property on 2 November 2020 it said the flue had been 
incorrectly fitted. The boiler was shut off and an at-risk notice was placed on the 
boiler the Inspector from G said it would contact the contractors to get it to put things 
right.
UKIs contractor attended a couple of days later and disagreed with G, saying the 
problem was a potential blockage within the gas pipe to the cooker. So, it 
disconnected the gas to the cooker and said the boiler was running correctly and 
removed the at-risk notice, it said there were no signs of CO in in the air test point.
Ms M was feeling unwell and arranged for G to attend again.
G reattended the property on 6 November 2020, in summary it reiterated its finding 
from the earlier visit and said again the flue hadnt been fitted correctly, its test 
readings werent satisfactory. It placed the boiler at risk and said the orange 
colouration to the gas cooker flames was caused by Ms Ms nebulizer machine.
Ms M says she was admitted to hospital again on 9 November 2020 with CO 
poisoning.
Mid-November the flue on the boiler was fixed. But Ms M said shed lost confidence 
with UKIs contractors and wanted the work checked by G. G was able to visit the 
property in early December and confirmed it was now safe to use.
Ms M feels that if the flue issue was fixed/installed correctly, the latter three episodes 
of poisoning, severe pneumonia and severe pleurisy wouldnt have happened  and 
neither would the shadows on her lungs. Ms M also complains that UKI were aware 
from the outset that she suffered from asthma and a partial collapsed lung. She was 
shielding due to the risks of Covid-19 however, she says the engineers were careless 
and didnt wear appropriate PPE. She also says that one of the engineers removed 
all the contents from her boiler cupboard and in doing so caused damage to her 
fridge freezer. She went several months with no hot water, heating and at times lack 
of cooking facilities.
UKIs claim management company has apologised to Ms M for the issue of the 
engineers not wearing PPE whilst in her property. In recognition of the lack of PPE, 
the original poor fitting of the flue and for the delays experienced, it awarded £250 
compensation.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She felt that UKI were responsible for a CO 
leak and that the compensation should be increased by a further £750 (£1,000 in 
total). She thought it was more likely than not the fridge freezer was damaged by the 
contractor and so UKI should pay for the quote Ms M provided it.
UKI have said the boiler Ms M has is a room sealed appliance and there was no 
evidence of a CO leak from the appliance into the property. It also said if the 
engineer from G had found a CO leak, he wouldve placed the appliance as 
immediately dangerous and wouldve raised a RIDDOR (Reporting of Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations). It said it wouldve expected the 
hospital to have informed the Health and Safety Executive and raise a RIDDOR if the 
CO had leaked into the property. It also said there was no clear evidence as to how 
the fridge freezer was damaged.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 29 July 2022. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms M has provided a very detailed account of the events in her timeline and 
both parties are aware of this. Within this decision I wont be responding to every specific 
point. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I 
will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make.UKI disputes that there was a CO leak into Ms Ms home. So, firstly, I have considered if the 
evidence supports that a leak most likely took place. I understand Ms M first reported an 
issue when she saw yellow/orange flames on her cooker, and she was feeling unwell. She 
was advised by the National grid helpline this may be a CO leak. A gas company attended 
the property and capped the gas supply at the meter pending further investigation.
When UKIs contractor attended it didnt find any CO leak, but it did think there was some 
thermal scorching to the flue and placed a notice on the boiler do not use and arranged for 
the flue to be replaced.
After the flue was replaced, G reviewed the work and noted poor workmanship as the flue 
hadnt been installed to the required standards. G reported that the flue integrity test 
recorded readings that were unsatisfactory. But I note there is no commentary from G that 
explicitly states or suggests there was a CO leak. It issued a warning at risk notice and 
turned the boiler off. Ive looked at classifications of the notice issued by G. It was an at risk 
(AR) notice this means the appliance/installation is potentially dangerous, where one or 
more faults exist and which as a result, may in the future constitute danger to life or property. 
It wasnt categorised with an immediately dangerous (ID) notice this is where an 
appliance/installation if left connected to the gas supply is an immediate danger to life or 
property. I think it more likely that if there was evidence of CO leaking into the property an ID 
notice wouldve been issued as CO leaks are an immediate danger to life.
Ive looked at the readings obtained during the tests. From what Ive seen there was 
evidence of products of combustion within the air intake compartment of the flue. The 
appliance is a room sealed appliance and the air is taken from outside. So, from what Ive 
seen Im persuaded the AR notice was placed on the boiler more likely for the poor 
workmanship of the installation not because CO was leaking into the property.
I also note when G attended the property on 6 November 2020 the cooker was checked and 
it was found when Ms Ms was using her nebuliser machine within seconds an orange 
colouration was present on all five burners and within minutes all five flame were showing a 
large degree of orange colouration. The nebuliser was using a Saline isotonic inhalation 
solution. G says the airborne mist was a direct cause of flame discolouration. Im satisfied 
that this appears to be the reason for the yellow/orange flames that Ms M reported.
Ive gone onto consider the medical evidence Ms M has supplied. I can see that Ms M has 
been in poor health prior to the first hospital admission. But what Ive looked for is medical 
evidence of the CO poisoning.
On the discharge letter coving the period of 8 October  15 October 2020 Ms M was in 
hospital for a chest infection, the diagnosis is CAP  Community- acquired pneumonia. 
There is no mention of CO poisoning.
In November Ms M has provided a letter that shows Ms M was in Accident and Emergency 
(A&E) with chest pain and shortness of breath but again, it doesnt mention CO poisoning. It 
does advise Ms M to speak to her energy supplier to repair the gas and advised not to stay 
in the house. I cant say for certain from this that Ms M had CO poisoning. I think the advice 
could be so as not to exacerbate Ms Ms medical conditions especially if the home had no 
heating and hot water, I wouldve expected the hospital to have done more if Ms M had CO 
poisoning for example reporting it to the health and safety executive and complete a 
RIDDOR.
I can see Ms M has provided a letter from her consultant that she saw in December 2020 it 
mentions she has told him she has had no hot water or heating since September and had 
several attendances to A&E where her blood gas showed elevated levels of carbon monoxide. But from what I can tell this is what Ms M has told her consultant rather than 
evidence of the CO poisoning from any relevant tests.
From what Ive seen Ms M has unfortunately been very unwell and has well-established lung 
disease. I do empathise with her situation, but Ive not seen clear medical evidence of CO 
poisoning. If Ms M can obtain the medical evidence showing the CO poisoning or further 
evidence from G or another expert that shows there was a CO leak escaping into the 
property, Id expect UKI to consider it. But based on the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded UKI is responsible for a CO leak as Ms M has described.
However, I am persuaded that the lack of hot water and heating in these cold months 
wouldve no doubt contributed to flaring up Ms Ms medical conditions. UKI were aware that 
Ms M was vulnerable and had been in and out of hospital. It has agreed there were delays 
and I think more couldve been done for example providing Ms M with temporary heaters.
In summary I think there were CO reading within the flue, but Im not persuaded that these 
were leaking into the property. However, I dont think the service provided by UKI has been 
to the levels Id expect to see. Ms M was given conflicting information regarding the source 
of the problems with the gas. An engineer was sent that wasnt qualified to investigate CO 
leaks when it knew this was the potential problem. The installation of the new flue was not 
installed to the relevant gas safety standards. There were delays, that caused Ms M to have 
no heating or hot water as well as lack of cooking facilities. There was also a lack of PPE 
from the engineers attending the property when it knew the resident was vulnerable.
Ms M has suffered from considerable distress and inconvenience as she has felt her home 
has been unsafe. So, I intend to instruct UKI to pay an additional £500 compensation 
totalling £750.
In addition, Ms M has said that one of the engineers took to emptying the contents of her 
boiler cupboard and in the process, she said he caused damage to her fridge freezer. Ms M 
said she was left in her unfit state to have to disinfect everything he had touched and put it 
all away and this is when she discovered the scratches on her fridge freezer. Ms M made 
several calls regarding this to UKI and its contractors but says nothing happened.
Ms M has provided pictures to show the gap between the boiler cupboard and dining table 
and chairs and they also show all the things (including some bulky contents) that were in the 
cupboard. Ms M explained that the engineer had taken out all the contents from her 
cupboard and put everything on the floor (scraping parts of her fridge freezer). From all the 
information provided, its clear that theres damage to the fridge freezer and I havent seen 
any reason to doubt what Ms M has told us about the incident. Further, looking at all the 
pictures and details she has provided; this shows where the boiler cupboard is in relation to 
the fridge freezer. The gap is small, and I can see how easily the items couldve scraped 
parts of the fridge freezer, so Im persuaded by Ms Ms version of events.
I understand from Ms M that she has sent a quote to UKI as she was asked for one but UKI 
refused to replace the fridge freezer (she had purchased it from a French company who no 
longer make those models which is why she sent a quote for a different model). UKI hasnt 
accepted this, nor has it put forward any kind of proposal to repair or resolve this matter. So, 
considering the options available, I intend to instruct UKI to pay Ms Ms quote for a different 
model.
Both parties have now responded to this decision. 
In summary Ms M has said that I havent addressed the lack of help, and the amount of calls 
she made regarding the claim, and not putting her into alternative accommodation etc. Ms M has reiterated that because friends took her to hospital instead of calling an 
ambulance was the reason it wasnt reported to RIDDOR. 
Ms M was upset about the comment I made regarding the letter from her consultant. She 
said he wouldnt have just taken her word without checking her admittances and for what 
reasons and just write a letter based on what a patient has said. Ms M also said the 
consultant that condemned her home couldnt believe she was in hospital again, he 
assumed Ms M hadnt complained enough to get the repairs done and said she should get 
the insurer to put her in alternative accommodation to be safe and warm. 
UKI has pointed to an exclusion in the home emergency cover for loss of or damage to any 
decoration, fixtures or fittings that happen during an emergency assistance call out it says 
with this in mind it doesnt agree that its contractor is liable for the damage to the customers 
fridge freezer. It also said there is a picture of Ms Ms kitchen where there is some paint tins 
and a black sack that dont appear to be contents from the cupboard, it suggests that Ms M 
mayve had other workmen present in the property. So, feel there is reasonable doubt that 
their contractor caused the damage to the fridge freezer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regards to Ms Ms comments as explained in my provisional decision I said I wouldnt 
be responding to every specific point. However, I appreciate Ms M may have felt I didnt 
consider some of the points she made. I was aware of these points when making my 
decision but focused my narrative on those points most relevant in me reaching my 
conclusion. So, although I didnt specifically mention alternative accommodation or the 
number of calls. I had noted Ms M did make many calls, but these were not all to Churchill or 
its contractors. I also noted Ms M was reimbursed for a lengthy call that cost her £19.07, Ive 
seen no further evidence of her being out of pocket and took into account the time she spent 
doing this when I considered the service Ms M received and awarding compensation. So, 
this wont be a separate complaint. 
Im sorry to hear Ms M was upset at my comments regarding the medical evidence, this 
wasnt my intention. But my role requires me to consider the evidence provided, and as it 
stands, I havent been provided with clear evidence of CO poisoning from any of her hospital 
admissions. 
With regards to UKIs comments, I can see that damage caused while attending an 
emergency wouldnt usually apply. However, in this instance the contents of the cupboard 
werent something that was needing to be removed in order to fix the emergency. This visit 
was required due to UKIs poor installation of the flue on a previous visit. And Ms M says the 
contents from the cupboard hadnt needed to be removed in prior visits. The fridge freezer 
didnt need to be damaged in order to carry out a fix, so Im not persuaded the policy 
exclusion is fair to apply in this instance. Instead the damage appears to have been caused 
by careless work by a UKI contractor. 
I have taken on board the comments regarding Ms M having some paint tins in the kitchen, 
but Im not satisfied this means she most likely had other contractors in the property. I say 
this as UKI are fully aware this was at a time when Ms M was shielding as she was clinically 
vulnerable to the risks of Covid-19 and hence why she was very upset that UKI contractors 
didnt use PPE. So UKIs comments havent changed my mind. Having carefully considered both parties comments to my provisional decision these havent 
changed my decision. 
 
Putting things right
I instruct U K Insurance Limited to:
To pay an additional £500 compensation to the £250 compensation already offered 
in total pay £750 compensation.
Pay the quote Ms M provided for the fridge freezer.
UKI must pay the full amount of compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Ms M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman