DRN-3245329
The complaint
Mr S has complained about delays he says U K Insurance Limited caused when dealing with 
a claim made under his car insurance policy. Mr S is also unhappy with UKIs decision to 
consider settling the claim on a partial fault basis. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S was involved in a collision with another vehicle and he reported it to 
his insurer, UKI. UKI received a claim from the other vehicles driver which Ill call the third 
party (TP). Solicitors representing the TP submitted a claim. Its not clear when this was  
but file notes show UKI apologised to the TPS for its delay responding to their claim on 16 
January 2020. 
In August 2021 Mr S complained to UKI about delays and he was unhappy following a 
discussion he had with UKI about how it might settle liability: this being potentially 70%30% 
in Mr Ss favour. Mr S said he didnt think he was responsible at all for the incident. 
UKI didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for any delays. It said there 
was some delay due to the pandemic  which meant the way staff were working changed 
from March 2020. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought UKI 
had caused delays  he thought it could have been more proactive in chasing the TPS and 
giving deadlines for responses. The investigator thought UKI hadnt properly investigated the 
claim. He thought it unfair for UKI to make a decision about liability without sight of a police 
statement which the TPS said theyd obtained but hadnt provided a copy of  despite UKI 
repeatedly requesting a copy of it. 
The investigator said If UKI have now agreed liability on a 70%30% split, it should still 
request the police statement to see if this would change its position. And it should clearly 
explain its position on liability to Mr S, in reference to the contents of the police statement, its 
own investigators report, as well as the statements from Mr S and the witnesses, including 
the allegations of speeding. If the evidence suggests UKI shouldve proceeded on a non-
fault basis, the investigator recommended UKI should update its records to show this is 
recorded as a non-fault claim for Mr S.
For the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay and handling of the claim, the 
investigator recommended UKI pay Mr S £300 compensation. 
UKI didnt agree. In summary it said it promptly requested a police report in November 2019. 
It took until March 2020 to get the witness statements. Medical evidence from the TP was 
delayed due to the pandemic which was outside of their control. The TPS asked for further 
information from the witnesses which caused a delay. 
UKI said the TPS  and Mr S  both told it the attending police officer didnt take witness 
statements  so it says it wouldnt have made a difference if it had received the police 
statement. It said it couldnt prove the TP was speeding without evidence by way of a speed 
camera. As at December 2021, UKI says it was negotiating settling the claim on a split 
liability basis with the TPS. If a negotiated settlement isnt possible, the matter will proceed 
to court  and UKI may win  or it may be settled on a split liability basis. 
As UKI didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.UKI has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. 
This term says UKI can take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means UKI 
can make a decision Mr S doesnt agree with, but the policy allows UKI to do so. We dont 
disagree with this term in principal provided the insurer can show it treated the customer 
fairly when applying it. Its not for us to decide liability but we can look at whether an insurer 
has properly investigated a claim and reached its decision in a reasonable way. 
Mr S reported the incident at the beginning of November 2019. UKI requested a copy of a 
police report two weeks later. It says the reason for the request was to obtain details of any 
witnesses and the TP. However, I can see that Mr S provided UKI with details of both 
witnesses by January 2020 and they both contacted UKI to say they were happy to provide 
statements. So before the police report was received, UKI had instructed an investigator to 
obtain statements from Mr S and the two witnesses.
I cant tell from the file notes when it received a claim from the TPS. But on 16 January 2020 
it spoke with the TPS and apologised for the delay in responding. According to UKIs notes, 
the police report was received on the same day as the investigator provided their report. 
Even though UKI received both the police report and Investigator report on or around 18 
February 2020, I cant see any action taken until 17 March 2020 when Mr S spoke to UKI. It 
then said it intended to obtain a statement from the attending officer. This was a delay of 
around a month  and before any restrictions were in place due to the pandemic.
On the same day, UKI wrote to the TPS and asked them if they intended to obtain a 
statement from the attending police officer. In April 2020 UKI chased the TPS for a reply  
and asked it to provide details of the TP occupation and medical evidence in relation to their 
injuries. UKI attached a copy of the witness statements and said it denied liability on behalf 
of Mr S. 
In August 2020 the TPS said it intended to arrange an interview with the attending police 
officer. And it asked for the witness details so that it could ask further questions. The TPS 
discussed liability with UKI and said it was looking to settle with some liability placed on Mr 
S. 
At the same time, UKI chased the second of the two witnesses for their signature as they 
hadnt signed the statement. 
On 26 August 2020 UKI had received medical evidence from the TPS and reviewed its 
position on liability. But it didnt receive the police statement as requested. 
On 18 September 2020 UKI chased the TPS again for the police statement and provided 
details of the witnesses for the TPS to contact. 
On 24 September 2020 Mr S provided an email address for UKI to contact the second of the 
two witnesses. I cant see that UKI contacted them until 9 October 2020 to ask for their 
signature. I understand that the second witness hasnt provide a signed statement. 
On 17 November 2020 the TPS said it intended to clarify a few things said by the attending 
police officer with the first of the two witnesses in support of Mr Ss account. So by this date 
it seems the TPS had spoken to the police officer and obtained a further statement from 
them. However, it didnt provide a copy of the statement  despite UKI offering to pay half of 
the fee for it. 
In January 2021 the TPS suggest a possible liability split of 50%50%. They say having 
spoken to the witness, they couldnt confirm if Mr Ss indicator was on. They made no mention of providing the police officers statement. 
UKI discussed liability with Mr S and it chased the TPS for the police statement again. UKI 
also asked for a copy of the follow up statement the TPS obtained from the witness. 
The TPS provided a copy of the follow up statement from the witness a couple of days later. 
On review, UKI said it was satisfied with its stance on liability  because the witness account 
continued to support Mr Ss view that the other driver was at fault for the incident. 
However, a month later  on 17 February 2021  UKI carried out a detailed review on 
liability. It proposed seeking a negotiated settlement with the TPS of 80%20% in Mr Ss 
favour. On review, UKI thought that a small portion of liability would rest with Mr S if the 
matter went to court, bearing in mind the circumstances of the incident and case law. 
I cant see that UKI progressed the claim until a month later on 17 March 2021  when it 
discussed liability with the TPS. In a discussion with the TPS, they told UKI off the record 
that the police officer statement was of no benefit as no statements were taken at the 
scene.
The TPS said they intended on arguing for some liability on Mr Ss part. 
Six weeks later at the end of June 2021 UKI asked the TPS again for a copy of the police 
statement and medical evidence to support the claim for injury. On the same day UKI 
discussed the claim with Mr S. UKI contacted the second witness to ask if they remembered 
if Mr S was indicating  this was 17 months after the incident. 
On 12 August 2021 UKI told Mr S the second witness hadnt replied  so it didnt have a 
signed statement from them. UKI explained that it would need to consider settling the claim 
with some liability on Mr Ss part. It said having referred the case, it believes a Judge would 
most likely reach a similar outcome. 
In response to the investigators findings, UKI says that it discussed with Mr S in August 
2021 that the TPS advised the police officers statement was of no benefit as no statements 
were taken at the scene and that Mr S had agreed as hed also spoken with the police. UKI 
says that as the attending officer didnt take witness details, not having their statement 
wouldnt have changed the outcome on liability. 
However, if not having the statement didnt change the outcome, its not clear why  after the 
discussion with the TPS in March 2021 - UKI continued to chase for the police statement in 
April and June 2021.
I think UKI was aware of a third party claim from early January 2020. It took six weeks from 
16 January 2020 to receive the investigators report which was strongly in favour or Mr Ss 
account and the witness statements were also very supportive. I note that both Mr S and one 
of the two witnesses confirmed that the attending police officer took details about the 
incident from them. This seems to contradict what the TPS told UKI after they took a 
statement from the attending police officer. I also note that the TPS suggested that after speaking to one of the witnesses, their case for 
shared liability was stronger. But when UKI received a copy of the follow up statement it 
didnt agree. Without seeing a copy of the police statement obtained by the TPS, I dont think 
its reasonable for UKI to have considered a split liability settlement without it. I think it could 
have taken steps to obtain a statement from the attending police officer as early as February 
2020 rather than relying on the TPS to obtain one  and bearing in mind the TPS would have 
asked questions about the incident while defending the opposing party. So I dont think it 
reasonable for UKI to decide  after the TPS didnt co-operate and provide a copy of the 
police officers statement  to rely on their view that the same statement would be of no 
benefit to UKI. 
I appreciate that some delays were outside of UKIs control. But I think UKI could have been 
much more proactive in defending liability. From reviewing its file notes, I think it was often 
the case that Mr S chasing for an update prompted a review of the file  there were periods 
of delays of around a month at a time when information was received but no progress was 
made. And it relied on the TPS to provide information to help it defend liability on behalf of 
Mr S. I think the handling of the claim and delays understandably caused Mr S distress and 
worry over a period of two years.
So I agree with the investigators recommendations and Im upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to either 
request a copy of the attending police officers statement from the TPS or obtain their own  
particularly in light of its own investigators report and statements provided by Mr S and the 
witnesses. It should reconsider its position on liability once it has properly investigated all 
available information and clearly explain the reason for its decision on liability to Mr S. 
U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim and the delays it caused. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman