DRN-3251682
Complaint
Mr B says that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly sold a debt, in relation to his current account, 
to a third-party debt purchaser, which should never have accrued as hed been refused an 
overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think TSB hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail. 
Mr B had a temporary overdraft with a limit of £200 in early August 2017. I dont know if he 
applied to increase this temporary limit, or ask for a permanent facility and this was declined. 
But, in any event, in late August 2017, Mr B authorised transactions on his debit card which 
settled a loan with another provider and also make a number of purchases. 
Given the sheer amount of transactions that were made at this time, its difficult for me to say 
that Mr B wont have known that he was making transactions which he didnt have the funds 
cover. And it will have taken sometime for TSBs systems to prevent any further transactions 
from taking place. 
As Mr B would have made these transactions knowing he had insufficient funds to cover 
them and TSB was obliged to honour them, I dont think that it was unfair for TSB to pay 
them. Mr B had already been provided with the goods or services in questions even though 
he may not have had the funds. 
Id also point out that this wasnt the same as TSB providing Mr B with an overdraft, it was 
more akin to Mr Bs debit card being misused. So I dont think that this was, as Mr B appears 
to suggesting, irresponsible lending  especially as TSB appears to have stopped Mr Bs 
debit car (and his ability to make purchases) relatively quickly.      
The information, Ive been provided with suggests that TSB wrote to Mr B a number of times 
to let him know that hed exceeded his overdraft limit and that he needed to get in contact to 
arrange repayment. But by October 2017, Mr B hadnt got in contact and I dont think it 
would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for TSB to continue ignoring this 
indefinitely. So, by this stage, I would have expected TSB to have taken corrective action in 
the way that it did.
After all, while calling in a debt and recording a default or other adverse information, might 
be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for TSB to begin the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr Bs 
overdraft when it did. As this is the case and Mr B didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay 
what was owed, Im satisfied that TSB was entitled to default Mr Bs account. 
As TSB still wasnt able to reach an arrangement to repay the amount owing, even after the 
account had been defaulted, I understand that it then took the decision to sell the account to 
a third-party debt purchaser. Given all the action and attempts to engage with Mr B that had 
been taken prior to this I dont think TSBs decision to do this was unreasonable, or that this 
meant it acted unfairly to towards Mr B at this stage either.  
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman