DRN-1794282
The complaint
Mr H complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) handling of an 
insurance claim he made after his car was damaged. Hes unhappy with their valuation of his 
car and the compensation theyve paid for the service he received.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of key events here.
In February 2019 Mr Hs parked car was hit by another vehicle and damaged. LV arranged 
for the car to be repaired by one of their recommended repairers. But when the repairer tried 
to return the car there were problems with the engine. And so, the repairer sourced a 
second-hand engine for it to be replaced. 
The engine was replaced in September 2019 and, the following month, the car was checked 
by an LV field engineer and passed an MOT. The return of the car was arranged but upon 
receiving it Mr H noticed further problems. The car was inspected by an independent 
engineer and later referred to the manufacturer for further assessment in December 2019. 
They found further issues with the car and it was confirmed that it wouldnt have passed an 
MOT. They also said that some of the parts required to repair the car were now obsolete 
and/or no longer available.
Mr H complained to LV about their handling of his claim. LV sent a final response in 
February 2020. They paid Mr H £2,000 for the car  which they considered to be its market 
value  and a total of £1,450 compensation.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think LV had to do anything further. He said LVs £2,000 valuation of Mr Hs car was 
about £250 lower than the average value he obtained from the trade guides our service 
uses. But he thought LVs valuation was fair when taking in to account that theyd waived a 
£230 salvage fee and allowed Mr H to retain the car. Our investigator also thought the 
£1,450 compensation was fair as, while Mr H was inconvenienced as a result of what 
happened, hed been provided hire cars during this time.
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to same 
outcome as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the terms of the policy LV can pay for the repairs to the car or they can pay its market 
value at the time it was damaged. In this case, they attempted to repair the damage as I 
understand it was Mr Hs preference to retain the car. But, following further problems arising 
during the repair process, the manufacturer determined that the parts required to fix the car were now obsolete or no longer available. So, while I appreciate Mr H wanted the car 
returned in its pre incident condition, I think it was reasonable for LV to pay him its market 
value instead.
Mr H disagrees with LVs valuation as he says he cant find a similar car for £2,000. So, Ive 
considered the valuation carefully. I think the best way to find a cars likely market value is to 
check the prices set out in the national trade guides. Those figures are based on extensive 
nationwide research of the likely selling price of cars. The guides rarely agree on an exact 
valuation, but I consider them more reliable than the prices cars are advertised for. That's 
because the guides are based on likely sales prices whereas adverts are usually inflated to 
allow some room for negotiation.
Because the guides rarely agree on an exact valuation, I think that a fair way to find a cars 
market value is to use an average of the various figures given by the trade guides. In this 
case, the trade guides provide an average valuation of about £2,250 which is higher than the 
valuation reached by LV. But Ive taken in to consideration that LV waived the policy excess 
and the £230 salvage fee. And that they also allowed Mr H to retain the vehicle  even 
though, under the policy terms, upon acceptance of this payment the car become LVs 
property (unless they agree otherwise). This means Mr H was given the option of selling the 
vehicle for scrap or using the funds to repair the vehicle himself. So, I dont think the £2,000 
LV paid for Mr Hs car is unfair.
I understand Mr H is unhappy with the level of service he received during the claims process 
 including the amount of time it took for the attempted repairs to take place and the 
condition of the car when it was returned to him. I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels about 
what happened but, taking everything in to account, I think the £1,450 compensation is a 
significant amount to recognise the trouble Mr H was caused.
Ive also taken in to account that Mr H was provided hire cars throughout the claims process 
and so he wasnt without a vehicle during this time. I appreciate Mr H says he had to change 
the hire car on about five occasions but I understand this was mainly due to the cars 
requiring servicing or maintenance. I therefore dont think I can fairly hold LV responsible for 
that but, in any event, I think the £1,450 compensation adequately compensates Mr H for 
any additional trouble this caused him.
Im also aware Mr H has since raised concerns about the car having an extra 2,000 miles on 
it after it went in for repair. But, given LV has since paid Mr H the cars market value and 
allowed him to keep it, I think theyve acted in line with the terms of the policy when handling 
the claim and fairly when trying to put things right. So, I dont think they need to take any 
further action here.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think LV has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman