DRN-3644867
The complaint
Mr K complains that HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio Marine 
HCC declined his claim on his property owners insurance. 
What happened
Mr K had a property owners insurance policy with HCC to cover a property he owns and 
rents out. In September 2021 his tenants reported a power failure at the property and smoke 
coming from the consumer unit. An emergency engineer was called and it was found that the 
problem was due to some faulty electrical connections in the unit which needed to be fixed. 
In the meantime the tenants were re-housed. 
Mr K subsequently made a claim on his insurance for the cost of the repairs and the lost 
rent. However HCC declined the claim. It said there had been no insured peril as the 
problem was due to maintenance and not caused by a fire.
Mr K didnt agree this was fair as he said the tenants had reported there had been a fire in 
the consumer unit, and this should be covered under the policy. He made a complaint but 
HCC maintained its position. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that he thought HCC had made a fair decision on the claim as the problem wasnt 
caused by a peril that is insured under the policy.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the policyholder to show that theres been an 
insured peril  thats something that is covered under the policy. 
Here Mr K has said that there was a fire, so the claim should be covered under this section 
of the policy. Ive looked at the report from the initial call out and it states the cause of the 
fault as follows:
Existing cable is a MICC cable it is old and has burned out. (From main incomer to the 
meter)
And
Found high earth reading. There does not seem to be earth coming into the property. This 
should have been highlighted on the EICR when conducted. As per regulation, there must 
be adequate earthing. This will need to be carried out and new EICR issued
From this it seems clear that the reason for the failed electrics was an old cable and the fact 
the system wasnt earthed. These are installation and maintenance problems and I agree 
these wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mr K has been adamant that there has been a fire, as his tenants saw smoke coming from 
the consumer unit. While this may have been the case, it seems from the emergency call out 
report that the cause of the failure was an old cable, so even if this had caused a small fire, I 
still wouldnt think HCC had acted unfairly. As in order for the claim to be covered under the 
fire peril, a fire would need to be the cause of the damage. And its clear from the expert 
report that this wasnt the case.
Mr K has said that he gets the electrics checked regularly as he is required to do, and the 
fault hadnt been picked up. While I appreciate this must be frustrating, this doesnt impact 
whether the claim is covered under the policy. As even if all the right checks are carried out, 
there still needs to be an insured peril that has caused the damage and there hasnt been 
here.
For this reason I agree that Mr K hasnt done enough to show there has been damage 
caused by an insured peril. I therefore find that HCC has acted fairly by declining his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman