DRN-3683006
The complaint
Ms D has a secured loan with Evolution Lending Limited and she has complained about how 
it treated her when she had financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms D took out this loan in June 2018. She borrowed £20,000 over a 15-year term at an 
interest rate of 19.56% (variable).
In early 2019 Ms D was made redundant and whilst initially her redundancy pay allowed her 
to maintain all her financial commitments, it would only last for so long and so Ms D 
accepted a new job with a lower salary.
The account went into arrears in December 2019 with no payments made in December, 
January and February.
Ms D has said that she had started to struggle financially, and when she contacted Evolution 
in January 2020 to discuss it she was shocked to discover that she was due to be charged 
over £40,000 in interest over the term of the loan, and that there had also been around 
£2,700 in set-up fees. She said she challenged this and asked Evolution to reduce the 
interest rate.
Ms D said she told Evolution that she wasnt in a position to make payments at that time, but 
that shed put an arrangement in place once her financial situation changed. She says 
Evolution persisted in calling her despite her asking for email contact as she didnt want to 
discuss it over the phone during working hours.
Ms D complained to Evolution in January 2020 and it responded on 22 January 2020 not 
upholding the complaint. That complaint related to the total amount repayable, the level of 
interest, and information Evolution had reported to the credit reference agencies about the 
size of the debt. The final response letter contained an explanation that Ms D had six months 
from the date of the letter to refer the complaint to us. If she didnt do so, and there were no 
exceptional circumstances, Evolution said that it wouldnt consent to us looking at the 
complaint. 
Evolution put in place a Covid payment deferral between March and August 2020 (inclusive). 
No payments were made in September or October 2020, and then from November 2020 
payments of £1 a month were received until October 2021, at which point they stopped and 
no further payments were made (we have the transaction history up until April 2022).
Ms D contacted a debt charity and they made contact with her various creditors, including 
Evolution in October 2020. It was through the debt charity that the monthly payments of £1 
I mentioned above were made.
Ms D referred the complaint to us in January 2021. This encompassed the January 2020 
complaint, plus some new points.
Evolution issued a further final response letter in May 2021. It said it wouldnt be revisiting 
the January 2020 complaint, and it didnt uphold the rest of the complaint which covered:
Evolution didnt reduce the interest rate when Ms D was in financial difficulties.
Ms D was unhappy with the method and level of contact from Evolution.
An issue with Ms Ds employer.
Our investigator looked at things. He said we couldnt consider the issues that had been 
dealt with in the January 2020 final response letter as those complaint points hadnt been 
referred to us in time. He also said we wouldnt consider the issue relating to Ms Ds 
employer as that didnt fall within our jurisdiction.
Ms D accepted that and said she may pursue those through other avenues, and so our 
investigator looked into the rest of the complaint.
In respect of the remainder of the complaint he didnt recommend it be upheld, saying the 
debt charity thought this was an unsecured debt which is why there was confusion and as a 
secured debt it wouldnt be included in the payment plan. He also said he didnt think the 
attempts at contact were excessive and Ms D didnt seem to have appeared to have 
discussed things with Evolution to try to find a way forward.
Ms D didnt agree and so it was passed to me to decide.
I recently issued a decision which set out which parts of this complaint we can and cant 
consider. I now issue this decision on the merits of the parts we can consider as the final 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure both sides that Ive read and considered everything theyve sent and said. 
Ive also considered the information we received from the debt charity. If I havent responded 
to a specific point it isnt because I havent considered it. I have. Im going to focus on what I 
think are the key issues in Ms Ds case. My approach is in line with our rules and role as a 
free alternative to the courts. I want to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended by 
this. 
Before I go any further, whilst it doesnt form part of this complaint, I should deal with a 
comment Ms D has made:
Also the settlement letter refers to my loan as a mortgage; to clarify the loan is a secured 
loan not a mortgage, all previous correspondence referred to the loan as a secured loan.
I understand it can be confusing, but the terms secured loan and mortgage are often used 
interchangeably. At its heart, the term mortgage is a secured loan because it is a loan which 
is secured on a property. And a secured loan is also secured on a property by way of a 
mortgage deed. Often the term secured loan is used to refer to a second (or subsequent) 
charge such as Ms D has here, but it isnt wrong to refer to such a secured loan as a 
mortgage. In fact, since 2016, secured loans like this have come under regulation and are 
known as regulated mortgage contracts. The original contract Ms D entered into is set out in the offer dated 26 June 2018. The 
covering letter for that is entitled Binding Mortgage Offer The word mortgage is then 
used on numerous occasions throughout that document.
Ms D has said the debt charity she was dealing with can assist with all debts, regardless of 
the nature so she thinks Evolution acted inappropriately when it wouldnt accept the 
payments of £1 a month and contacted her, rather than the debt charity. 
I think there has been some confusion as whilst the debt charity can assist with different 
types of debts, here the debt charity was putting forward a token payment plan (TPP) and 
with those the charity excludes the contractual monthly payments to any priority debts (such 
as this second charge secured loan) as non-payment of those can lead to a property being 
repossessed. Instead the debt charity includes the full monthly payment for all priority debts 
on the outgoings before the affordability of the plan is calculated. Any arrears on priority 
debts can be included in the TPP, but not the contractual monthly payments due. This 
information can be found on the debt charitys website in the section on TPPs.
Whilst the debt charity originally sent a TPP to Evolution, Evolution told the debt charity that 
the debt it was being contacted about was a secured loan, and I can see both the debt 
charity and Evolution told Ms D this. Evolution told Ms D:
When we have reviewed your documents and spoken to [the debt charity] direct they have 
advised that we are listed as a non-priority creditor. They have asked that we contact you 
direct and to notify you of this as it will require you to contact them to advise them that we 
are a secured loan.
Can you kindly inform us once you have done this in order for us to offer the right level of 
support.
And
as the contractual payment is already included in your outgoings, [the debt charity] have 
confirmed that they have informed you this needs to be paid directly to Evolution. However, 
we have not received a contractual payment on the account since October 2019.
According to its contact notes the debt charity emailed Ms D in January 2021, saying:
We did sent [sic] you a letter in December, asking you to contact us about this account.
The creditor has informed us this debt is secured against your property. Which would mean 
it should be included in your budget and not your plan. All secured debts need to be paid 
and if you have arrears, you should try and come to an arrangement to make payments to 
them with the creditor. Which would be reflected in the budget.
As with all secured borrowing your home is at risk if you dont make the contractual 
payments.
The budget planner that was completed between the debt charity and Ms D includes the 
contractual monthly payment due to Evolution as an outgoing that Ms D would be paying in 
full  this can be seen in the type of expense column with row 4 listed as Secured Loan/2nd 
Mortgage and the monthly payment as £366.
Whilst Ms D has said her priority debt was her main mortgage, unfortunately that isnt what 
priority debt means in this sense. The debt charity defines priority debts and bills as Priority 
payments are the ones that could leave you homeless, without essential services, or where the creditor has extra powers to enforce the debt. It then lists some examples of these and 
one of those listed is a secured loan saying that the property you secured the loan against 
can be repossessed.
Both Evolution and the debt charity told Ms D that the Evolution debt wasnt included in her 
TPP, and so she needed to discuss with Evolution directly any arrangements she needed for 
this debt. 
Ms D has complained about the number of calls Evolution made, and the fact she asked for 
email contact only.
The starting point here is the context to the contact. Ms D last made her contractual payment 
in November 2019. Since then only 12 payments of £1 each were made, against the 23 
contractual payments due of around £365 a month (up until April 2022)  that is £12 paid 
versus instalments due of around £8,400.
This is a debt which is secured against Ms Ds home, and non-payment of it can lead to legal 
action being taken which could result in Evolution taking possession of the property. In that 
context it was important for Evolution to speak to Ms D to get a plan in place to try to stop 
that happening.
Unfortunately, Ms D wasnt meaningfully engaging with Evolution as she needed to. Instead 
she was referring the lender to the debt charity, which wasnt appropriate here for the 
reasons Ive already explained, or she wasnt answering its calls.
Whilst Evolution may have agreed to email contact that would be on the understanding that 
Ms D then engaged by email, but having reviewed all the contact here that wasnt the case. 
Evolution couldnt simply accept no payments (or £1 a month payments) to this debt as the 
situation would then simply worsen month on month. It needed an active conversation with 
Ms D, following receipt of all the income and expenditure information it requested from her, 
to discuss what was possible. This didnt happen as Ms D either referred Evolution 
(inappropriately) to the debt charity, said she couldnt pay anything (without Evolution being 
able to undertake all the checks and discussions it needed on that), or didnt answer at all.
Ive looked at the volume of calls and I dont find it excessive bearing in mind the context Ive 
set out above. If Ms D had either answered the calls or made a call to Evolution at a time 
that suited her (its phone lines were open into the evening four days a week and on a 
Saturday morning), and had a meaningful engagement with Evolution in terms of discussing 
the account then Ive no reason to believe the volume of calls wouldnt have been much 
lower. The reason why Evolution made so many calls is because Ms D either wasnt 
answering them, or when she did she wasnt engaging in a meaningful manner with the 
process that needed to be followed.
There is a range of support measures a lender can consider when a borrower is in financial 
difficulties. But all those require an open and honest discussion between the lender and the 
borrower, and for both sides to fully engage in that. Having considered everything I dont 
think Ms D was meaningfully engaged in this process, and for that reason Evolution couldnt 
consider the best way to help her. 
Having considered everything, whilst I can see what a difficult time this was for Ms D, I dont 
think Evolution treated her unfairly in any aspect of this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman