DRN-3838297
The complaint
Mr H complains about incorrect information given by AXA Insurance UK plc when he made a 
claim on a car insurance policy.
Where I refer to AXA within this decision, this includes representatives and agents acting on 
its behalf.
What happened
Mr H insured a car with AXA. The car was damaged in an accident and declared a write off. 
Mr H spoke to AXA about what he could do with the car following the write off and after 
doing so agreed that the car could be salvaged by AXA.
Mr H subsequently complained to AXA. He said hed accepted a settlement of the claim 
based on the car being written off, but this was because hed been given incorrect 
information given by AXA. He said if hed been given the right information, hed have kept 
the car and arranged for it to be repaired.
AXA accepted Mr H had been incorrectly advised about whether he could use the car and 
ongoing cover in the event he retained and repaired the car. It paid £150 compensation to 
recognise this.
Mr H didnt accept this and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
AXAs compensation offer was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr H didnt accept this and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision, I note AXA accepts Mr H was incorrectly told he couldnt drive the 
car and that if the car was repaired, AXA wouldnt provide ongoing insurance cover.
Its accepted that Mr H would have been able, legally, to drive the car. If hed repaired it, the 
policy cover would have remained in force.
Mr Hs car had been declared a write off. It should be noted this was because it was 
uneconomical to repair  in other words AXA assessed the repair costs as being too high 
compared to the value of the car. The damage wasnt so severe or of a nature that made it 
unsafe or unsuitable for repair. The car could be repaired, and driven again, although the 
write off would be recorded and something which would need to be disclosed in future.
What I need to do therefore is decide the level of distress and inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect advice, and whether the £150 compensation paid adequately recognises this. 
Mr H has said if hed been told the policy cover could continue if he repaired the car, hed 
have had it repaired and continued using it. After being given incorrect advice, Mr H chose to 
give the car up to be salvaged and receive a settlement for the value of the car. Mr H says 
hes suffered a financial loss because of this, as he paid more for a replacement car than he 
received in settlement. The value of the settlement isnt the subject if this complaint, so I 
cant comment on this. I do accept inconvenience was caused to Mr H in having to find and 
purchase a replacement vehicle, and hed have been distressed by losing the car. That 
wouldnt have happened if hed retained the car and repaired it. 
I do think there are factors which reduce the impact of this on Mr H, however. While 
inconvenience has been caused to Mr H in purchasing a replacement car, if hed had the car 
repaired, that would also have caused inconvenience to him, which didnt take place. I also 
think its fair to say that Mr H could have contacted other insurers to see whether he could 
insure the car if he repaired it, if he was so minded to keep the car and repair it over 
purchasing a replacement  it isnt reasonable to assume what he was told by AXA would be 
the position of every insurer.
I think, on balance, the impact on Mr H of the incorrect advice means that the £150 
compensation offered by AXA to date was suitable. I cant conclude that AXA should be 
liable for any of the financial losses Mr H has said were caused because of what he was 
told.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK plc to do 
any more than it already has done to resolve this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman