DRN-2866005
The complaint
Mr E complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr E was provided with three loans by Mr Lender between June and August 2014. The 
details are set out below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £300 1 23/06/2014 31/07/2014
2 £300 6 01/08/2014 12/08/2014
3 £1,000 6 31/08/2014
Mr E says that at the time of the loans he was vulnerable and experiencing financial 
difficulties. He says he was borrowing more to make his repayments and cover his ongoing 
living costs. He says he contacted Mr Lender about the issue with his loans but didnt 
receive a final response letter and so raised his complaint with this service.
Mr Lender noted that Mr Es complaint had been raised more than six years after the loans 
were provided. Our adjudicator addressed this issue explaining that hed not seen anything 
to suggest that Mr E was aware or should really have been aware that he had reason to 
complain about the fairness of the lending at the time of the loans, or more than three years 
before he complained.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have 
been provided, but he thought loan 3 shouldnt have been lent. He said that loan 3 was a 
large loan and that proportionate checks would most likely have shown Mr E was having 
problems managing his money. Mr E had multiple short-term loans and other borrowing at 
the time, and our adjudicator thought Mr Lender should have realised it was unlikely Mr E 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the credit check before loan 3 
was provided recorded Mr E as having one other short term loan outstanding and that he 
had declared repayments of £50 a month to other lenders. It said it was reasonable to rely 
on the information that had been provided. It said Mr Es repayment history raised no 
concerns. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Mr E was provided with the first loan in June 2014. This was for £300. Before the loan was 
provided information about his income and expenses was gathered and a credit check 
carried out. Mr E declared a monthly income of £1,400. Having looked through the 
information received I do not find that this raised concerns that meant further checks should 
have taken place. As the information gathered at this time suggested the loan was affordable 
I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr E repaid loan 1 in July 2014 and took out another loan for the same amount the next day. 
Had this pattern continued I would have expected further checks to have taken place to 
ensure Mr E wasnt persistently reliant on the loans. However, I think it was too early in the 
lending relationship for a pattern of borrowing to have been established. Loan 2 was 
repayable over six monthly instalments with the highest repayment amount being £155. 
Having considered the repayment amounts compared to Mr Es declared income, his 
repayment history, and considering that this was only Mr Es second loan I find the checks 
carried out were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the 
loan I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.Loan 3 was for a much larger amount, £1,000. While it was repayable over six monthly 
instalments, the highest of these was around £466. As this was the third loan in less than 
three months and noting the increase in the amount borrowed and term, and the value of the 
highest repayment amount compared to Mr Es income, I think further checks should have 
taken place to ensure that the repayments under this loan were sustainably affordable for 
Mr E.
I have looked through the information that has been provided, and I think further checks 
would have shown that Mr E was struggling to manage his money. He was making frequent 
transactions with gambling sites and had other short term loans outstanding at the time. 
Given this I think Mr Lender should have been concerned that the repayments on this loan 
werent sustainably affordable for Mr E. Therefore, I uphold this complaint regarding loan 3.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan 3 to Mr E.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If loan 3 has been sold, Mr Lender should buy this back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan 3, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr E having made overpayments 
then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
if, after the refund set out above, there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr E. 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to loan 3.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender shouldnt have provided 
loan 3 to Mr E. It should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman