DRN-3303508
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Computershare Investor Services Plc treated him when he 
was given an option to buy some shares. Mr Ws complained that his option could only be 
exercised online, and that there was a delay acting on the instruction he gave.
What happened
A company Mr W held shares in decided to issue some new shares in 2020, to raise some 
money. They offered existing shareholders the chance  an option  to buy a proportionate 
amount of the new shares, so that their stake in the company wouldnt be diluted by the new 
shares being issued. The company arranged for Computershare to receive the instructions 
from shareholders, and to operate a market for buying and selling the options.
The company limited the timescale for deciding what to do to a couple of weeks in 
September. In their prospectus they said this  and circumstances relating to the global 
coronavirus pandemic  meant shareholders would have to submit their instructions online.
Mr W had heard about the share issue, but hadnt received any details in the post. So he 
called Computershare on 14 September 2020. It seems to be agreed they explained that the 
instructions needed to be submitted online, and that Mr W had three options if he wanted to 
do something.
Mr W submitted his instruction online on 15 September, using a computer in a public library. 
He chose to do a cashless take up. That meant Computershare would sell some of his 
options, and use the money from that to buy the rest of the shares available to Mr W.
Mr W says he really wanted to buy all the shares available to him. But he didnt do that 
because he felt the details hed need to enter online to pay for the shares wouldnt be secure 
with the computer he was using.
Computershare have said they acted on Mr Ws instruction on 21 September. Mr W 
complained about this delay, saying the options had been worth much more when he gave 
Computershare his instruction. Computershare responded, saying theyd acted in line with
their terms and conditions.
The complaint came to me for a formal decision. I explained last time that I found the 
decision to have instructions submitted online wasnt made by Computershare, so they 
werent responsible for Mr Ws dissatisfaction with that. But I did find Computershare hadnt 
then done enough to meet the terms and conditions of the service they did provide. 
Specifically, they unreasonably delayed carrying out Mr Ws instructions. 
In response, Mr W has written at length that he still feels Computershare were responsible 
for saying instructions had to be given online. Computershare have responded too, 
explaining that they were obligated to sell the shares within the deadline advised. They 
also said they provided the best possible result for shareholders by providing the best 
execution price, not by being account managers. 
The case is now ready for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my understanding of this case is unchanged by the comments Ive received 
from Mr W and Computershare. That means my decision is unchanged too. So Im going to 
largely repeat what I wrote last time. But Ill add to that in places, where doing so will help 
address the points that have been raised by Mr W and Computershare. 
Im still of the view that whats written in the prospectus that the company issuing the shares 
published at the time is key when considering Mr Ws complaint about having to submit his 
instructions online.
On page three of that prospectus, the company issuing the shares explained that 
instructions could only be made online. On page six, they explained this in more detail, 
saying it was because the application deadlines didnt give shareholders much time, and 
because of circumstances surrounding the coronavirus pandemic.
That tells me it was the company issuing the shares that decided to make the process online 
only. While I appreciate that was inconvenient for Mr W, his complaint seem not to sit with 
Computershare. Its with the company issuing the shares, which set the timescale for his 
decision, and specified how his decision was to be communicated.
Mr Ws commented that the prospectus says on its first page that it was prepared by 
Computershare. I cant see that on the version Ive got. Nor is that on the version found on 
the share issuing companys website. Even if it did say that, I feel that overlooks all the 
points where the prospectus explains it is the share issuing company thats decided how to 
issue the shares and options. And it feels like common sense that the company issuing the 
shares would be the one deciding how to do that. I dont agree with Mr W that 
Computershare made the decision to have instructions be online only.
I also note Mr Ws sent us a letter another investor platform issued about the matter. That 
refers to the company issuing the shares, and not once mentions Computershare. That 
again tells me its the company issuing the shares that controls the process for that issue. 
Mr Ws taken part of that letter from the other investor platform as saying an instruction could 
have been received by phone. He feels that shows Computershare could  and should  
have done more to take his instructions in alternative ways too. But I feel Mr W is 
overlooking what the rest of the document says. 
The full quote talks about logging in to an online platform to submit instructions. The phone 
call service is only offered to people who have any trouble logging in, and notes when you 
call well help to get you back online. There is still an online element to the service provided 
by that other company. 
As the decisions about how to submit instructions came from the company issuing the 
shares, I find thats where Mr Ws complaint more properly sits. But we dont have 
jurisdiction to look at complaints about the company issuing the shares. So Im not going to 
consider that part of this complaint any further.
Mr Ws commented about not receiving the prospectus at the time, and a phone call he had 
with Computershare where he was told it hadnt been sent out to him. While I appreciate Mr W wasnt happy about that, it doesnt change my view that the prospectus is evidence 
Computershare werent responsible for saying the instructions had to be made online. 
The same call Mr Ws referred to also did enough to put right any delay in the document 
reaching Mr W. The call explained his options to him well enough that he was then able to 
take action the next day. Even if Mr W had received the prospectus  which appears to have 
been written only a few days before he called Computershare  I cant see his actions would 
have been much different, given the tight timescales for the whole process. As such, I dont 
see any further action is needed from Computershare to address this delay point. 
The prospectus above explained the main service Computershare were providing to Mr W  
they would be his agent when executing the instruction hed submitted. Complaints about 
that service are within our jurisdiction, so thats the focus of the rest of my review. 
The prospectus tells me Mr W had to submit his instructions by certain cut-off dates. If he 
did, Computershare would then instruct a broker to sell the options on the business day after 
the cut-off date hed met. I agree with Computershares comments that these terms created 
an obligation for them to sell the shares within the deadlines set. 
Here, Mr Ws instruction on 15 September met the Interim Cut Off Date of 16 September. 
So Computershare should have instructed the broker on 17 September. But it looks like they 
didnt  the sale didnt start until 21 September.
That means there has been a delay here. The question for me is whether that delay was 
reasonable, given all the circumstances of the case.
There were other terms in the prospectus that explained Computershare might not instruct 
the broker by the date theyd said. The terms said they reserved a right to instruct a broker at 
any date before the Final Dealing Date  21 September for the cashless take up.
A further term said that after instructing a broker, Computershare and the Broker will then 
take all sufficient steps to obtain the best possible results for the customer.
So from these terms I conclude Computershare could delay the instruction of a broker, but it 
would only be reasonable if they thought doing so would obtain the best possible result for 
Mr W. Computershare have said about having to give their customers the best execution 
price to achieve that. I accept thats an important factor to consider, but the term doesnt limit 
them to just that. 
Ive had our investigator ask Computershare why there was a delay in this case. They said:
due to the high volume of the number of trade instructions received for the Capital 
Increase, all sale instruction were aggregated this is not only the reason for the 
delay seen between the dates, but also ensure[d] that the best possible result 
[was] obtained for the shareholder.
This tells me Computershares reason for delaying acting on Mr Ws instruction wasnt driven 
by an attempt to get the best execution price for their customer. Instead, it was because 
theyd received a lot of instructions from a range of customers. 
The terms said Computershare could aggregate instructions from different customers, if they 
wanted to. In that case, each individual customer would receive an average price. The terms 
said that may result in a more or less favourable price for the customers.I cant see that Computershare had seen anything to suggest that delaying or aggregating 
Mr Ws instruction would achieve a better execution price for him, or more generally the best 
possible result their terms said theyd achieve. That leads me to conclude that 
Computershare acted unreasonably in this case, because they didnt do enough to consider 
all the factors needed to ensure they met their terms and conditions. Specifically, the term 
that said they would take sufficient steps to obtain the best possible result for Mr W.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, my aim will be to put Mr W in the position he would have been in, 
if Computershare had instructed a broker on the working day after the interim cut-off date. 
Thats what their terms tell me should have happened in this case.
That means that the broker would have been instructed here on 17 September. A simple 
approach will therefore be to value Mr Ws options on that date, instead of at the 16p per 
option value they had on 21 September. If the value was greater on 17 September, Mr W 
would have been able to sell fewer options, and buy more shares.
So to put things right, Computershare should work out how many more shares Mr W would 
have bought in September 2020, and then buy that many shares for him  at todays price. 
So that Mr W can check Computershare have done that, they should also provide him with a 
copy of their calculation, and provide him with evidence for the 17 September 2020 valuation 
theyve given the option, and the price of the shares when they buy them.
In addition, Ive thought about whether compensation should be paid for the trouble and 
upset Computershare have caused for Mr W. I provisionally find some compensation is 
justified, but it should be limited.
Thats because some of Mr Ws upset in this case was with having to give his instructions 
online. But as Ive discussed, that wasnt due to any failing by Computershare. 
But the subsequent delay in carrying out Mr Ws instruction would have added to his overall 
frustration with the situation. A modest figure of £100 compensation would reflect that 
additional impact, and balance it against the fact this was a loss of a potential asset, rather 
than affecting money Mr W was relying on for day-to-day living expenses.
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint about Computershare Investor Services Plc. To put this 
right, they should do the following:
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Provide Mr W with the shares he would have been able to buy in September 2020 
under the cashless take-up option, if his instruction had been carried out on 17 
September. 
Give Mr W a copy of the calculation theyve done and evidence theyve relied on 
when working out the value of his options on 17 September 2020, and details of the 
price paid for the shares purchased. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 Paul Mellor
Ombudsman