DRN-1314452
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold personal accident insurance as an add-on to his 
motorbike insurance policy that he holds with Hastings Insurance Services Limited. He 
believes Hastings failed to make clear what the policy would cover, and it misled him about 
the nature of the insurance. Mr M says this caused the refusal of a valid claim by the insurer. 
What happened
Mr M bought his policy online on 14 June 2019. He added an additional benefit to his policy 
application for a further £19.99, set out as enhanced personal accident cover. The cover 
comprises a lump sum payment of £20,000, payable in the event that Mr M suffered from 
one of a number of defined bodily injuries, total permanent disablement or death. 
In mid-July 2019, Mr M had an accident involving his motorcycle, resulting in an injury to his 
finger. He sadly had to undergo amputation of part of his index finger. 
Mr M made a claim under the personal accident insurance within his policy for loss of a 
limb. The claim was made via Hastings and passed to the third party business that operated 
the benefit. However, the claim was refused. The third party explained that the policy terms 
required the loss of a hand or foot. Mr Ms circumstances therefore didnt meet the 
requirements of a valid claim.
Mr M complained in an email dated 21 July 2019. Along with the grounds he believed the 
claim was unfairly refused, he also said he was mis-sold his policy. Mr M said:
he believed he would be insured for the loss of a finger;
he believed it unfair to exclude loss of a finger or part of a finger from the definition of 
loss of a limb;
it was not clearly stated in marketing material, nor under exclusions of the policy;
it is unfair for a customer to predict these incidents would not be covered as 
standard;
if the policy wasnt clearly explained in the documents given to a customer, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service may conclude the policy was mis-sold;
this services website guidance says that we may tell an insurer to pay a claim if we 
decide an exclusion or restriction was unfair or unusual and wasnt brought to the 
customers attention  or if the customer could have bought a policy elsewhere which 
would have covered their claim;
he also felt that Hastings had disregarded guidance from the regulator in ensuring it 
treated its customers fairly;
he had additional administrative concerns that arose after he had made his claim, 
firstly that he had needed to complain twice and secondly that he could not access 
his policy documents online. 
Hastings issued a reply to the complaint on 14 August 2019. It rejected the complaint. It 
reviewed the wording available online when Mr M applied for his policy and the information 
sent to him once he had taken out the insurance. It said that the wording stated Mr M would 
be covered for the loss of a limb, which is defined as the loss of a hand or foot. There was 
no cover for the loss of a finger, and as such it did not feel it had misled Mr M in any way 
when he applied for the policy.  
In respect of the administration issues, it said it had reviewed carefully the call Mr M placed 
on 28 July 2020 where he had said he complained previously. But the earliest evidence of 
any complaint was one week before on 21 July, when Mr M raised the current complaint. 
Further, it said Mr Ms documents were available to view online and he could try different 
devices and ensuring he had the latest updated PDF software. If he still couldnt view them, 
Hastings told Mr M he could contact it at any time, and theyd assist him with any technical 
issues if they persisted.  
Hastings also noted to Mr M that he said he had since sold his motorbike, yet his policy was 
still running. It said that if Mr M wanted to cancel the policy, it would be prepared to waive its 
cancellation fee, on receipt of proof he had sold the vehicle.
Mr M was unhappy with the response and referred the complaint to this service, specifically 
regarding that he believed the policy was mis-sold. Two complaints were set up  one 
against Hastings and the other against the business operating the policy. Mr M reiterated 
that he bought the additional benefit specifically for the type of accident that he suffered, and 
Hastings hadnt made clear that the loss of a finger wasnt covered. 
Mr M also referred to a journal relevant to insurance claims, referencing how it sets out a 
definition of a finger as an upper limb. That journal also went further to explain the function 
and psychological consequences of the loss of a finger or part of the hand, which Mr M 
explained was relevant to his circumstances.  
Mr M said the definition given to him was so short and non-specific (by not including loss of a 
finger as a subset of the loss of a limb) that this must be taken to mean he has been mis-
sold the cover because to refuse loss of a finger is an unfair and unusual restriction. To that 
end, he supplied an extract of a policy offering from a different insurer which gave a greater 
set of definitions. That insurer covered loss of a finger/fingers, loss of a thumb/thumbs and 
loss of toes as separate lower lump sum payments to loss of a hand, foot, or limb.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that it ought to be rejected. This was 
because the information given to him at the time he took out the cover made clear that the 
policy covered loss of a limb, and specifically what that was defined as. She said there 
wasnt an exclusion; instead, what Mr M tried to claim for wasnt covered by the policy.
Though she appreciated that Mr M feels that the definition of limb wasnt brought to his 
attention, she took a different view and felt it was fairly outlined in the policy document. 
Further, she said the inability to access documents online that Mr M had concerns about 
came about after he had made his claim and that this did not affect the sale of the policy.  
Mr M said he disagreed and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. He noted that 
the product information sheet supplied to him was misleading, and Hastings could easily 
have ensured that the definition of a limb was on that sheet if it had wanted to do so.  
Hastings had no further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Ms accident and the injury he has suffered. I understand this has 
been extremely difficult, particularly where it has affected his profession. 
To be clear, this complaint concerns only the actions of Hastings as the business which Mr 
M purchased his policy from online. I wont be making findings about the decision of the third 
party to refuse the claim itself, as that is the subject of a separate complaint lodged with this 
service.
That means though Mr M has supplied evidence about his view on the definition of a limb, 
that evidence is relevant to the claims complaint. This complaint is primarily about the sale of 
the policy, though I note there are some additional administrative concerns held by Mr M.   
Looking at the evidence submitted by both parties, I agree with our investigator that this 
complaint should not be upheld. That is because I do not believe Hastings has been unfair or 
unreasonable in how it has set out the policy terms for the personal accident cover. 
Hastings did not decide what the insurance did or did not include. That was part of the 
offering by the insurer. But, as Mr M has pointed out, it did need to provide clear information 
and keep Mr M appropriately informed of what the enhanced personal accident cover 
comprised. Having looked at the documentation from the time of the sale, I believe it did this.  
Ive looked carefully at the Insurance Product Information Document that Mr M confirms he 
received. I realise he has explained how he based his decision to take out the benefit based 
on this. This document cannot incorporate the full policy terms, as those are supplied by the 
third party insurer. However, I believe Hastings product information document is clear and 
that it gives a reasonable summary of what it included in the policy. It says:
Whats this type of insurance?
This is a Personal Accident Insurance policy that provides certain lump sum benefits 
following an injury sustained in a road traffic accident whilst riding on the insured 
bike.
The document then sets out bullet points of what is insured, what isnt insured, where the 
applicant is covered geographically, one restriction (that being the maximum benefit of 
£20,000) and the obligations in place if a claim is made. 
Under the whats insured section, it says:
 Loss of a limb or limbs - £20,000
I realise that to ascertain the exact definition of limb a policyholder would need to review the 
policy wording. But I dont find that Hastings has been unreasonable in setting out the 
summary information how it has. I believe a layperson would reasonably understand a limb 
to mean an arm or a leg  and therefore including a hand or a foot. I dont believe Hastings 
needed to set out the exact policy definition of limb within a product information sheet. Nor 
do I believe loss of a finger was expressly excluded. The policy does not cover every 
conceivable accident that a person may suffer. It offers a lump sum payment in a limited 
number of prescribed circumstances, such as loss of a limb, sight, hearing, speech, total 
disability or death. 
It simply would not be possible to provide a summary of the key provisions if each and every 
term with a specified definition was included. That is why there is a sheet of this nature. It is 
intended to provide an overview, not the entire policy conditions (those are supplied in an additional 64-page additional benefits conditions booklet). It is for that reason that Hastings 
sends out policy terms once the contract of insurance comes into force.
Hastings also sent Mr M a letter on the date the insurance was accepted on 14 June 2019. 
This letter told Mr M that he needed to review the policy documentation carefully and to 
contact it if he had any queries or needed to make any changes. Though I recognise Mr M 
feels there has been administrative failings, I dont agree that Hastings has acted 
unreasonably in how it has supplied the policy to Mr M. 
I recognise it is upsetting for Mr M that he went on to suffer partial loss of a finger. But 
looking at the sale of the policy, I cannot use hindsight to determine what Mr M would have 
done in June 2019. I need to decide if Hastings acted fairly at that time, and I consider it has. 
I cannot safely conclude Mr M would have acted any differently whether the policy summary 
document included the limb definition or not. That is because Mr M cannot have reasonably 
foreseen or predicted his accident. Further, I cannot hold Hastings responsible for the loss of 
any possible right to claim elsewhere, as I dont think it has been misleading about the 
nature of the personal accident cover.  
Nonetheless, I have reviewed the information Mr M supplied to our investigator, showing that 
a different insurer did offer cover for loss of one finger and more than one finger. But I dont 
agree that endorses Mr Ms argument that Hastings misled him into considering loss of a 
limb includes a finger. Firstly, it is a different policy, with a multi-level payment scheme 
based on severity of an injury, seemingly attached to motor vehicle insurance. Secondly, it 
sets out loss of a limb separately. This would support the position that an applicant or 
layperson would reasonably believe that there is a material difference between loss of a limb 
and loss of a finger, thumb or toe.  
My final decision
Though I was sorry to learn of Mr Ms accident, I do not find Hastings to have acted unfairly 
in relation to the sale of his personal accident cover. And so, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman