DRN-2637091
The complaint
Mr K and Mr K complain about the way that Nationwide Building Society administered an 
overpayment reserve on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr K and his mother and father, Mr and Ms K, have a joint mortgage with Nationwide. I was 
sorry to hear that Ms K has passed away.
In 2007 Mr K and Mr K took a cash withdrawal of £35,000 from a flexible reserve facility 
they held with Nationwide. They say they later found out that a facility of £48,000 had 
actually been agreed. They say the difference of around £13,000 had remained as a credit 
on their account and had been used to repay interest on the £35,000. 
Mr K and Mr K said they assumed that they were making payments toward interest on the 
reserve facility and their mortgage. They say they never requested the additional amount of 
£13,000 and did not know it was being used to cover the interest applied on the £35,000 
borrowing.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. On review, he said that the 
£48,000 was as a result of an overpayment by Mr K and Mr K in 2004. So when they 
withdrew the £35,000, that left a credit balance of £13,000. As no payments were made to 
the reserve facility, the credit balance was used to repay the interest that accrued. 
Mr K and Mr K didnt accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at what Mr K and Mr K and Nationwide have said. Like the investigator, I 
am satisfied with Nationwides explanation of what happened. 
Mr K and Mr K have a mortgage with Nationwide. The account has two account numbers  
one ending 1963, which has a balance of around £50,000 on an interest only basis  
payments have been made consistently. 
The other ends in 9000. It is also on an interest only basis. The evidence Nationwide has 
presented shows that in 2004, Mr K and Mr K made a lump sum payment of £48,450 to that 
account. That overpayment cleared the mortgage balance apart from a very small amount. 
Only interest of 27p a month was required to be paid and that was covered by the 
overpayment reserve. 
In 2007, Mr K and Mr K drew down £35,000 from account 9000. That created a debit 
balance of £35,000, with interest due of around £200 a month. Nationwide has provided a 
copy of a letter it sent to Mr K in July 2007. It confirmed that £35,000 had been released and 
that a monthly payment of £203.60 was required. 
There is no evidence that new borrowing was created or that Nationwide agreed lending of 
an additional £13,000. I accept that Mr K and Mr K drew down £35,000 of the around 
£48,000 that was on their overpayment reserve. This is one of the features of this product. 
Id note that the £13,000 that remained in the overpayment reserve is not new borrowing. It 
is the amount remaining from the overpayment that Mr K and Mr K made in 2004 after they 
drew down £35,000.
Nationwide has also provided a letter it sent to Mr and Ms K in July 2007 showing that the 
payment went up on both accounts because of a change in interest rate. The letter said that 
the amount for account number 1963 is paid by direct debit and that the new payments will 
be made automatically. For account number 9000 it said, Please remember to change your 
payment amount. I am satisfied that Nationwide told Mr K and Mr K that they needed to 
make a payment to account 9000.
Nationwide has provided a statement from 2008  the first year after the drawdown. It shows 
that payments of around £200 were due to account 9000 from August 2007, but that no 
payments had been made at all that year and that a direct debit was not set up to collect 
payments. It also shows that the overpayment reserve balance had reduced to £12,155.04 
from around £13,000. That is in line with its explanation that the overpayment reserve was 
being used to cover the interest that was due. It is likely that other annual statements 
reflected this position. I am satisfied that Nationwide took reasonable steps to show Mr K 
and Mr K how the account was operating  and that the remaining overpayment reserve was 
being used to cover the interest on the balance. It was reasonable for them to query it if it 
was not in line with their understanding.
That continued until October 2018, when Nationwide wrote to Mr K and Mr and Ms K to say 
that they were behind on their mortgage payments. I consider that Nationwide has given Mr 
K and Mr K sufficient information to understand what was happening with their mortgage.
Nationwide has provided an extract from its website. It explains that where a customer has 
built up an overpayment reserve, underpayments are allowed up to the amount of the 
overpayment reserve. So I am satisfied that Nationwide has acted in line with its policy here.
In his response to the investigator, Mr K said that Nationwide hadnt provided a copy of its 
terms and conditions. I asked Nationwide to do so, but it said that although its final response 
letter mentions the terms and conditions it is actually meant to refer to the policy on its 
website.
Overall, I dont consider that makes any difference about whether Nationwide treated Mr K 
and Mr K fairly and reasonably. For the reasons I have explained, I am satisfied that 
Nationwide gave Mr K and Mr K enough information to understand what was happening on 
account 9000, that they needed to make payments and they werent  so it was using the 
overpayment reserve to cover the interest until it ran out. I consider that was fair and 
reasonable.
I cant see that there was any mistake by Nationwide in writing to Mr Ks mother and father. 
They were part of the mortgage  and there was a reasonable expectation that Mr K as a 
joint account holder would take steps to keep up to date with the position of the mortgage. 
Nationwide never gave Mr K and Mr K any information to lead them to believe that payments 
were being collected for account 9000  and its not clear how Mr K and Mr K understood 
payments were being made to that account. I appreciate there has been some confusion. 
But I dont consider that was due to any error by Nationwide.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman