DRN-4162502
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse the money he says hes lost to 
a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr A believes he has been the victim of a scam. He says he carried out an internet search 
for impound insurance and called the telephone number listed on the website for a company 
Ill refer to as A. Someone called him back from a mobile telephone number to arrange the 
required insurance, and he paid the agreed price of £826 on 26 January 2022. However, he 
didnt receive the policy documents or any other paperwork, and he couldnt get in touch with 
A again. 
Mr A approached Barclays for a refund of the money he paid to A. The bank declined to 
reimburse Mr A because it said there was no reason for it to intervene with the payment to A, 
and this matter is a civil dispute which isnt covered by the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code).
Mr A asked this Service to consider a case against Barclays. 
Our investigator looked at everything and found that this is a civil matter which isnt covered 
by the CRM Code, and Barclays isnt liable to reimburse Mr A. 
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans final decision on his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having looked at everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund the payment in dispute. I realise this will be disappointing news for Mr A, and it isnt 
the outcome hell be hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When Barclays processed the payment to A, it was complying with Mr As payment 
instruction, as it is obliged to do. And considering the relatively low value of the payment, as 
well as the usual activity on Mr As account, I wouldnt have expected Barclays to intervene 
with the payment in any way. So, I dont think Barclays acted incorrectly in making the 
payment and it wouldnt be fair to ask the bank to refund Mr A on this basis. Ive considered 
whether Barclays should refund the payment for any other reason, but I dont think it should.
Barclays is a signatory of the CRM Code, which was in force when the payment was made. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the CRM Code is 
quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
I understand why Mr A feels he has been scammed if he did not receive the service he paid 
A for, but I dont think I can fairly say that he has been scammed. From what Ive seen, I 
think this matter is a civil dispute between Mr A and A. I say this because Mr A hasnt been 
able to provide much information about what happened. He cant recall the website address 
he found As telephone number listed on and he hasnt got a record of the mobile telephone 
number he received a call from to arrange the insurance cover and relevant payment. He 
hasnt been able to provide any correspondence that passed between himself and A before 
the payment was made either. But I can see that A is a legitimate business that has been 
registered with and active on Companies House for many years. And evidence Ive received 
from As bank indicates that it is a genuine business that has been operating a business 
account for several years with no significant fraud concerns raised  it is this account that Mr 
A paid into.
Overall, although I accept and acknowledge that Mr A may not have received the service he 
paid A for, for whatever reason, I dont think the available evidence indicates that he has 
fallen victim to a scam. He appears to have paid a legitimate business  A  and theres no 
evidence to suggest that A set out to deceive Mr A or trick him into paying for a service 
which it had no intention of providing. As such, I dont think Barclays is responsible for 
reimbursing Mr A because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Mr A has my sympathies. But overall, Im not satisfied that there has been a bank error in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman