DRN-2714912
The complaint
Ms A says Next Retail Limited irresponsibly lent to her when it increased the credit limit on 
her NextPay account in September 2017. 
What happened
Ms A opened a NextPay account in 2006. She previously brought a complaint to this service 
about irresponsible lending on her account and a final decision was issued in February 2017. 
Ms A accepted this decision, which didnt uphold her complaint, in March 2017. She 
contacted this service again in November 2019 after Next had been in touch to say it was 
refunding an amount of interest as it had failed to properly consider her disposable income 
when agreeing a payment plan in 2018. Ms A says this admission shows Next was also 
irresponsible when it increased her credit limit in September 2017.  
The scope of this complaint is solely the increase in lending in September 2017. Ms As 
credit limit was £400 and Next increased it to £3000. Two months later it subsequently 
reduced it to £1,500. Ms As account defaulted in December 2018.
Next explained that before increasing Ms As limit it looked, as it did each month, at an 
affordability score from the credit reference agencies that gives an idea of income, 
expenditure and existing credit commitments  and her score was good. It also considered 
how she had been maintaining her account, noting she was up to date with her payments 
and at times making more than the minimum repayment. So it hadnt upheld Ms As 
complaint.
Our adjudicator concluded Next shouldnt have increased Ms As limit at this time. She said 
the checks Next carried out before offering the limit increase were not proportionate. She 
thought that given Ms A had previously raised concerns about irresponsible lending in 2017 
and said she couldnt afford the repayments of her existing debt, Next needed to have 
completed a fuller financial review before increasing Ms As limit. 
Had it done so it would have seen that Ms A was having problems managing her money and 
as a responsible lender it ought to have realised it was unlikely Ms A could sustainably 
manage and repay a higher credit limit. She set out what Next now needed to do to put 
things right.
Next agreed to settle Ms As complaint in line with the adjudicators recommendations. Ms A 
however said she felt Next needed to do more to compensate her given the phenomenal 
size of the unaffordable limit increase it offered her. So the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint (what happened), our adjudicator 
explained why she didnt consider Next had completed proportionate checks. I think her 
rationale was fair. She then explained that had it done so it would have seen that Ms A was 
having problems managing her money. The adjudicator looked at Ms As credit file as a way 
to see what Next might have been aware of had it carried out proportionate checks. She 
found Ms A had several other revolving accounts with significant credit limits and had 
defaulted on four accounts in the 13 months prior to Next increasing Ms As credit limit. And 
so concluded Next was wrong to lend more to Ms A at this time. I agree with this particularly 
given Next was offering her seven times more credit on an open-ended revolving facility. 
As neither party disputed this finding I wont comment on it further. Where we find credit to 
have been given irresponsibly, as we did here and as Next has accepted, our general 
approach is to direct the lender to refund interest and charges but not the capital borrowed 
as the customer has had the use of this, in Ms As case to make purchases from Next. As 
well as removing any adverse information recorded on the borrowers credit file from the 
date of the irresponsible lending onwards. 
Next agreed to do this, confirming an amount of interest and some charges that had already 
been refunded. It also agreed to bring the debt back in house and to honour the payment 
plan Ms A has in place with the third party. It asked that Ms A contact it to set this up.
Ms A said this wasnt enough and asked for more compensation given the size of the limit 
increase as she still has a significant balance to repay. But I think its fair and reasonable 
that she repays the capital as she had the benefit of that money by making a number of 
purchases from Next. I note she has been able to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
the third party the debt was transferred to. In the circumstances of her case I havent found 
any grounds to award any additional compensation. It follows I am upholding Ms As 
complaint, but not ordering any change to how things should be put right.  
 Putting things right
Next has confirmed it has brought Ms As debt back in house so it should: 
Remove any interest and charges incurred as a result of the increase to Ms As credit 
limit on or after 30 September 2017 that have not already been refunded. 
Recalculate Ms As account balance after making the above adjustments. Any 
repayments made by Ms A since 30 September 2017 should be used to reduce the
outstanding balance.
For any periods where the recalculated balance is in credit, Next should pay
Ms A interest on the credit amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum* for the period
the account remains in credit. It can if it choses use any such amount to reduce the 
outstanding balance.
As it seems an outstanding balance will remain, I would remind Next that it should 
treat Ms A sympathetically when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan. I 
note it has offered to carry over her £10 monthly payment from the third party it sold 
the debt to. Ms A should contact Next to set this up, assuming it remains affordable.
Remove any negative information added to Ms As credit file from 30 September 
2017 to now. If Ms A fails to meet the agreed repayment plan, or breaches the terms 
of her agreement in any other way going forward, Next can reflect this in the data it 
passes to the credit reference agencies.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Next to take off tax from this interest. Next must give Ms A a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Ms As complaint. Next Retail Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman