DRN-3395572
The complaint
G Ltd, represented by Mrs B, complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused a refund for 
office plants purchased for the company.
What happened
On 11 and 24 March 2021, Mrs B ordered some large plants online for G Ltds office, using 
G Ltds Lloyds business credit card. These were a Dracaena Cintho, (hydroculture type) at a 
cost of £112.99 including delivery, and a Codiaeum Petra (Croton) and some accessories at 
a cost of £105.30 including delivery. The orders were delivered on 13 April.
On 18 April, Mrs B emailed the retailer and said the leaves of one were starting to fall, and 
the leaves of the other were going yellow. She sent photos and asked for replacements.
The retailer replied on 26 April, asking how the plants had been potted into their containers, 
what drainage material was being used, and how they were being watered. The retailer also 
sent detailed cultivation advice. This advice included saying that Crotons are prone to leaf 
drop, especially after transportation, but they recover well. It also said Dracaena are more 
robust but the hydroculture plants have particular water requirements which must be met.
On 14 May, Mrs B wrote again with further photos, saying that both were in self-watering 
pots with water indicators. She said they had both deteriorated significantly after four days. 
The retailer replied with further detailed cultivation instructions. This included saying that the 
hydroculture Dracaena needed to be potted in water, and it wasnt enough for it to sit above 
a water reservoir. The retailer gave more instructions and a link to an online guide about how 
to put the plant into water. In regard to the Croton, the retailer said leaf loss after transit was 
common, and that stress from re-potting, which it appeared Mrs B had done, would also lead 
to leaf drop. So the retailer refused a refund.
G Ltd, represented by Mrs B, complained to Lloyds. On 19 May Lloyds raised a chargeback, 
and credited G Ltds account with a temporary credit for the disputed amounts. 
The retailer disputed the chargeback, sending detailed information. It pointed out that the 
photos showed the plants were healthy. It explained that some leaf drop was common after 
the stress of transit  and Mrs B had re-potted them before theyd had time to settle. And the 
hydroculture plant had to be grown in water, but Mrs B had potted it into soil instead. 
On  2 July Lloyds notified G Ltd that the chargeback had been disputed. Lloyds told G Ltd 
that if it still queried the charge, it should write back saying why, with updated photos of the 
plants, which might allow it to return the charge to the retailer. 
Mrs B replied saying that she was still disputing the transactions. She said shed reported 
the problem to the retailer promptly, but shed now disposed of the plants. She said she was 
considering legal action, including Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Lloyds re-debited the charge. In its final response to G Ltds complaint, Lloyds said that the 
reason it had taken back the temporary credit was that G Ltd hadnt met the refund criteria. It 
said it had asked for up-to-date photos, but G Ltd hadnt been able to provide this. And it 
explained that G Ltd didnt have rights under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act because 
it was a limited company.
G Ltd, represented by Mrs B, wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold G Ltds complaint. He explained that there were two options 
for Lloyds when seeking to help a customer get a refund:
- Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But this doesnt apply to credit for 
limited companies. G Ltd is a limited company, so it couldnt claim under Section 75.
 
- Chargeback. This is the process which Lloyds used to try to obtain a refund  for G 
Ltd. The investigator considered that Lloyds had followed the chargeback process 
fairly, and didnt uphold G Ltds complaint.
G Ltd didnt agree. Mrs B said shed notified the supplier, sending photos. She said Lloyds 
hadnt told her that she should keep the plants, and she said the issue had been causing her 
serious mental health issues as well as the financial impact. She said Lloyds should put 
things right or pay compensation.
G Ltds complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accurate that G Ltd couldnt claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
because its a limited company. So it was a chargeback which was appropriate here, and 
Ive considered whether Lloyds acted fairly towards G Ltd in the way it dealt with the 
chargeback claim.
A chargeback is a process for resolving settlement disputes, and its run by the card 
schemes. So the outcome is decided by the card scheme companies, not by Lloyds.  So, 
when we look at a complaint about a chargeback, what we consider is whether a bank has 
followed the chargeback process fairly by referring the complaint to the chargeback scheme, 
and dealing with it in line with the procedures. 
Chargeback timescales are strict, and Lloyds raised the chargeback on 19 May, which was 
within the schemes correct timescales. Lloyds provided G Ltd with a temporary credit but 
made it clear that the merchant (the plant supplier) might disagree. 
When the merchant did disagree, Lloyds asked G Ltd for more information on 2 July, 
including asking for G Ltds comments, and updated photos. G Ltds reply was that it had 
reported the problem to the merchant promptly, but no longer had the plants. It didnt 
comment on what the merchant had said in the email exchanges between the merchant and 
G Ltd  that the hydroculture Dracaena plant had been re-potted into soil rather than water, 
which would kill it, and the Croton plant had been re-potted which would cause temporary 
stress from which it would recover.Its not disputed that Mrs B complained to the merchant in time. But that alone doesnt mean 
a chargeback succeeds.  G Ltd needed to show that the plants had been faulty as supplied. 
The emails between G Ltd and the merchant show that the merchant believed there was 
nothing wrong with the plants. The merchant provided several detailed emails, aimed at 
solving the problems, and it provided additional cultivation information and links. Essentially, 
the merchant told Mrs B that the problem was that shed treated the healthy plants wrongly. 
It said:
- shed set the Dracaena Cintho hydroculture plant in soil instead of water, which 
would kill it;
- and shed re-potted the Codiaeum Petra (Croton). That stress would cause it to lose 
leaves temporarily, but the merchants emails in response to the chargeback also 
said that the photos showed the plant was still healthy.
In the merchants email to Mrs B of 26 April, it had said In both cases, we should be able to 
get the plants back on track as long as they are potted correctly and getting the correct care.
Following the merchants response, I consider Lloyds acted correctly in giving G Ltd another 
opportunity to provide more evidence to counter what the merchant said. But in reply, Mrs B 
didnt provide Lloyds with any evidence to show the merchant had been wrong when it said 
the problem had been Mrs Bs care of the plants. 
I recognise that Mrs B has argued that she shouldnt have had to keep the plants as long as 
2 July which was when Lloyds asked for updated photos, and she said Lloyds should have 
warned her shed need to keep them that long. But I consider that all Lloyds was doing was 
giving G Ltd an opportunity to provide more evidence. Photos are an obvious way of 
showing faulty goods. Lloyds had made it clear that the credit to G Ltds account had only 
been temporary, and more information might be required. So I think it would have been 
reasonable for G Ltd to have kept the faulty goods until the matter was fully resolved, without 
needing to have been specifically told to do so. 
Without any evidence to show that the problem wasnt Mrs Bs care of the plants, which was 
the basis for the merchants defence of the claim, G Ltds claim had no reasonable chance of 
success. So I find that Lloyds had no reasonable alternative but to re-debit G Ltds account 
in line with the chargeback which the merchant had successfully defended. I find that Lloyds 
followed the chargeback process fairly, so I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman