DRN-2039793
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about the compensation shes been offered by NRAM Limited for its mis-
sale to her of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a loan.
What happened
In 2019, Ms B complained to NRAM that shed been mis-sold a PPI policy with a loan. 
NRAM responded to Ms Bs complaint, accepting that the PPI policy had been mis-sold. It 
offered to pay her compensation for this mis-sale of £84.08 (net of tax).
Ms B wasnt happy with the amount of compensation offered by NRAM and referred her 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought that NRAM had 
calculated its offer in the way this service would have expected it to and didnt think it 
needed top do any more. Ms B didnt agree with the adjudicators view because shed 
received a much higher offer of compensation from another bank for a similar PPI policy 
which had been mis-sold to her.
As Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NRAM has already agreed to uphold Ms Bs complaint about the PPI mis-sale, in this 
decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. I am only looking at whether 
NRAMs offer is fair.
NRAM has provided a copy of the loan agreement which Ms B signed in 2006 for her loan. I 
can see from the agreement that the loan was for 36 months and that a single premium PPI 
policy was taken out at the same time and added to the loan. This meant that the PPI 
premium attracted interest over the term of the loan. The PPI premium cost £44.26 and the 
interest added to this amount was £3.98. 
NRAM has also provided evidence to show that the loan lasted for its full term. So Im 
satisfied that Ms B has paid a total of £48.24 for the PPI policy she was mis-sold.
This service expects a business that has mis-sold PPI to refund to the consumer the costs 
they have incurred in buying it. This would include the PPI premium itself, together with any 
interest or other charges the consumer has paid as a result of the policy. We would also 
expect the business to pay simple interest at 8% for any time that the consumer has been 
out of pocket because of the payments theyve made in respect of the PPI.
In Ms Bs case, I can see that the offer which NRAM has made included the PPI premium 
she paid and the interest charged on that premium. I can also see that NRAMs offer 
included £44.80 of simple interest (less tax of £8.96 which it is required to deduct) for the 
time that Ms B has been out of pocket since she paid these amounts for her PPI policy. And 
Im satisfied that NRAM has calculated this simple interest correctly.
So, having carefully reviewed the compensation offered to Ms B by NRAM, Im satisfied that 
it has done what I would have expected it to do to put Ms B back in the position she would 
have been now if this PPI mis-sale hadnt happened. And I dont think NRAM needs to do 
any more.
Ive thought about what Ms B has said about receiving more compensation from another 
business for a similar PPI mis-sale. But this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding 
her complaint. There could be a whole range of factors that have caused this difference 
including, for example, the respective dates, sizes, lengths and interest rates charged on the 
loans, together with the amount and type of cover provided by the PPI policies attached to 
them. In any event, we look at each PPI mis-sale that is referred to us on its individual 
merits, so what Ms B has offered on a separate complaint - by another business - is not 
relevant when considering the specific circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what NRAM Limited has offered in compensation to 
Ms B to settle her complaint about mis-sold PPI is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman