DRN-3152205
The complaint
Mr I complains as a director of S, a limited company, about HSBC UK Bank Plcs (HSBC) 
failure to carry out a transaction on two occasions. 
What happened
S attempted to carry out a transfer to debit Ss business US Dollar (USD) account and 
credit Ss business British pound sterling (GBP) account. Mr I says S attempted to carry out 
the USD conversion to GBP on 24 March 2020 and this was accepted and S was given a 
reference. Mr I says, at this point, US$119,340.90 converted to £100,000. This didnt go 
through so S attempted this again a week later but this time US$125,728.90 converted to 
£100,000 - but this again didnt go through. Mr I says it did go through on the third occasion 
costing S an additional US$6,658.10 because of the change in exchange rate. S complained 
that HSBC should honour the exchange rate for the original transaction. 
HSBC responded and explained both payments were held by their Electronic Fraud 
Department for further checks. This department then tried to call Mr I on 24 and 31 March to 
confirm further checks. But, as they were unable to reach Mr I, both payments were 
cancelled in line with HSBCs procedure. 
Our investigator looked into things for S. She thought HSBC had made attempts to contact S 
and felt no error had been made. S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
I should say at the outset that this service doesnt have power to require a business to 
change its processes. Or to direct what checks it should require when verifying a customer 
or authenticating a payment. HSBC say the payments were flagged due to the value of the 
transaction. Both payments are for a significant amount, so I dont see this as being 
unreasonable or uncommon when considering how banks apply their security processes. 
I understand that it can be inconvenient if a transaction is held up pending authentication. 
But I dont find that HSBC did anything wrong in holding up both payments. Its in all our 
interests that security checks are enforced to reduce the likelihood of banks and their 
customers becoming victims of fraud. 
That said, the dispute here appears to relate to the events of 24 March. Mr I says he never 
received a call on 24 March following the first attempt at payment. 
System notes provided by HSBC show S attempt to carry out an inter-account transfer which 
triggers an alert. An attempt is then made to contact S by phone which was unsuccessful. A 
second transfer was then attempted a week later which again triggers an alert. HSBC again 
try to contact S by phone but this is also unsuccessful. HSBC then send a text message 
which is received by Mr I. The following day, Mr I calls HSBC to discuss the unsuccessful 
transactions. HSBC say both payments were reversed as their attempts to authenticate the 
payments werent successful as they were unable to speak with S. 
HSBC say their process is to contact a customer when a payment has been flagged. I think 
the system notes do support this as they refer to HSBC attempting to contact S on 24 March. 
I can see Mr I disputes this and I note our investigator has asked HSBC for evidence of the 
call but they say the calls arent available. Ive looked at the facts and then Ive made a 
judgement call based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is more likely to 
have happened than not. The system notes show the dates of the two initial payment 
attempts and the value of the payment. So, I think this shows an alert was triggered on both 
occasions. Beneath the dates of the two initial payment attempts, it says Attempted to 
contact customer and it then notes Mr Is mobile number and a work number. So, I believe, 
on the balance of probability, its more likely than not a call attempt was made on 24 March. 
Theres no dispute a call was made on 31 March and, in view of the system notes, I believe 
HSBC will have followed the same process in making a call to authenticate the payment on 
24 March. 
I note Mr I says the system notes dont show HSBC made a call on 24 March as the notes 
evidence details of the call made on 31 March but theres no details for the call on 24 March. 
I agree there is further details for the call on 31 March, such as the time of the call, but this 
refers to the call made by HSBCs Payment Detections team. The notes dont refer to a call 
being made by the same team on 24 March so that might explain why the same details dont 
appear for the call on 24 March. The notes however show a call attempt was made by a 
specified member of staff  who also attempted to call on 31 March. And, for both of these 
records the notes refer to a call but without any further details. I can see Mr I says HSBC 
didnt send a text message on 24 March, and I agree the notes dont make reference to this. 
But, as mentioned above, we cant tell a business what their process should be when looking 
to authenticate a payment. My role is to decide whether HSBC have acted fairly and 
reasonably. And, given that I believe, on the balance of probability, that a call attempt was 
made on 24 March, I cant say there has been an error.        
In summary, while I understand the impact this had on S, I cant say HSBC have acted 
unreasonably here. While it appears further attempts at contact were made on 31 March 
compared to 24 March  I cant say HSBC have made an error as they have attempted to 
contact S. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman