DRN-3322826
The complaint
Mr T complains that he didnt receive the £125 incentive for switching his account to 
Nationwide Building Society (NBS). Mr T is also unhappy that his NBS membership hadnt 
been reinstated.
What happened
Mr T says that when he switched his current account to NBS he didnt receive the £125 he 
expected for being an existing NBS customer. NBS provided screen prints to show that Mr 
Ts account switching process took place between 27 October 2021 and 12 November 2021.
Mr T complained to NBS about the account switch, and that he wanted his NBS membership 
to be reinstated following the closure of his NBS account. Mr T also complained that he 
didnt think NBS were considerate of his protected characteristics under the equality act 
2010.
On 17 September 2021 NBS provided their final response to Mr Ts complaint, they also sent 
a further response on 29 October 2021, they didnt uphold his complaint. NBS confirmed that 
they had a vulnerable consumer policy and explained that Mr T hadnt benefitted from the 
£125 switching incentive because he hadnt completed a full account switch. NBS also 
confirmed that Mr T had complained to them about his membership in March 2019 and that 
theyd already provided him with a final response to that complaint in the same month.
NBS provided us with details which confirmed that Mr T had opted for a partial switch of his 
account. NBS also provided a copy of their account terms and conditions which advised that 
existing NBS customers would benefit from £125 for switching an account. However, it also 
says that a full switch would be required to qualify for the £125 incentive.
Unhappy with their response, Mr T brought his complaint to this service for investigation. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld. The investigator felt that NBS had correctly followed their terms and 
conditions in relation to the account switching process. Our investigator also found that Mr 
Ts concerns about his membership had been addressed by NBS in March 2019, and so 
was outside of our jurisdiction as Mr T hadnt brought it to us in time.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr T asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Firstly, Ill address the issue around Mr Ts membership. NBS provided their final response 
to that complaint in March 2019. Mr T then brought this issue to us in October 2021 which 
was more than six months after NBS had provided their final response. This means were 
unable to consider that part of Mr Ts complaint because it was referred it to us too late.
We arent free to deal with every complaint we receive. Were bound by our rules which flow 
from legislation (specifically, the Financial Service and Markets Act 2000). The rules are set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and are published in the FCAs Handbook, under 
the heading DISP.
Section 2.8.2 of DISP sets out the time limits on how long a person can wait before referring 
it to our service. Under the FCA rules Mr T needed to have raised this part of his complaint 
to us within six months after the date on which NBS sent their final response to him. 
The FCA Says we can look into a complaint after this time has passed if, in the view of the 
ombudsman there was an exceptional reason for not referring it to us sooner, or if NBS 
consent to us doing so. NBS said to us in their file submission that they didnt consent to us 
looking into this part of the complaint, and I havent been made aware of any exceptional 
reasons as to why Mr T hadnt referred his complaint to us sooner. So as Mr T hadnt 
referred the complaint about his continued NBS membership to us in time, Im not able to 
look into this for him.
However, Mr T also complained that he hadnt received £125 for switching his account to 
NBS, so Ive focused my decision on this element of his complaint.
From 31 August 2021, Mr T sent some emails to NBS requesting to switch a bank account to 
them. This was so he could receive their switch offer of £125 that hed seen advertised on a 
third-party website. NBS responded to Mr T providing information on how to carryout an 
account switch, and provided him with the terms and conditions of the switch offer.
The terms of the account switching offer says you wont qualify for the offer if you dont 
complete a full switch. It goes on to say that a full switch means NBS closes your old current 
account down for you.
NBS provided us with a screen print to confirm that Mr T had carried out a partial switch on 
28 October 2021. Mr T had also stated in emails to us in November 2021 that NBS had 
transferred more direct debits from his external account than hed asked for, and that he only 
wanted two regular payments transferred. Having thought about this, I think its likely Mr T 
had intended for a partial switch of his account to NBS. And from the evidence provided by 
NBS, Im satisfied that Mr T had on this occasion completed a partial switch of his account to 
NBS. 
In an email from NBS to Mr T sent In October 2021, prior to Mr T carrying out the switch, 
NBS included the terms and conditions of the switch offer which explained the qualifying 
criteria for the offer. Mr T explained in an email to NBS that their terms had differed from 
what hed reviewed on the third-party website about NBS switch offer. I dont know what the 
third-party website said about NBS swich offer, but Im satisfied that Mr T would have had 
the opportunity to review the terms of the offer from NBS. In the circumstances, I dont think 
NBS has acted unfairly towards Mr T in relation to the account switch offer. So, I wont be 
asking NBS to do anything in relation to this complaint.I recognise that Mr T has on more than one occasion referred to his vulnerable status. Ive 
also seen the medical documentation that Mr T has copied to us in relation to this. From 
what Mr T has said to us Im aware this has been a difficult situation for him to deal with. 
However, from the evidence Ive seen I dont have any reason to think that Mr T had been 
unfairly treated by NBS in relation to his vulnerable status, or that theyve not adhered to any 
relevant legislation in that regard. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman