DRN-4165463
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard acted irresponsibly 
when it provided him with a credit card in 2017 and then subsequently increased his credit 
limit in 2018. 
Background
Mr B applied for a credit card from Barclays in 2017. His application was successful, and he 
received a card with a credit limit of £800. 
The following year Mr Bs credit limit was increased to £1,200. He has said the card, and in 
particular following the credit limit increase, was unaffordable. Mr B has explained that 
following ill health in 2018 he has had to stop working and has been signed off a having a 
limited capability to work. He has had to move back into his parents home and says hes 
unable to repay the outstanding balance on the account. He wants Barclays to write off the 
balance and refund him all of the interest he paid since the inception of the account. 
He has also said that Barclays never responded to the complaint he logged with it via its app 
in December 2022. 
Barclays has said that it completed all relevant affordability checks at the time of the initial 
application and when the limit increase took place in 2018. It has said based on what Mr B 
told it at the time, as well as the information gathered from credit reference agencies, it had 
no reason to think the credit card would be unaffordable for him. So it didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr B then brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She 
found that although the checks run by Barclays may not have been sufficient, there was no 
evidence available to show that the lending was unaffordable. And so she couldnt prove that 
Barclays was wrong to provide the credit card or increase its limit. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Unhappy with the adjudicators response Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and so its been passed to me to consider. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings reached by our adjudicator and for much the same 
reasons. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this and so I want to explain why Ive 
reached the conclusions I have. 
When Mr B applied for his credit card online in July 2017 there was some discrepancies 
between his declared income and the information available to Barclays via the credit 
reference agency it used. However, Barclays has said it took this into consideration and 
provided Mr B with a relatively low opening limit. 
I agree that at this point it may have been pertinent for Barclays to have done some 
additional checks to ensure the card would be affordable. However, its unclear what 
outcome these checks may have had at that time. Neither Mr B nor Barclays has provided 
us with any bank statements from 2017 or other evidence that might have indicated that at 
the time he applied for the credit card Mr B wouldve struggled to meet the repayments. So 
even though I think some additional checks may have been appropriate, theres nothing to 
say these checks wouldve shown the lending was irresponsible. So, I cant uphold Mr Bs 
complaint on this basis. 
Barclays has said that following the account being opened in mid-2017, Mr B didnt actually 
begin to use the card for another 10 months. Then between summer 2018 and late 2018, 
when the balance was increased, Mr B managed the card well. There were no missed 
payments and he stayed within this limit. 
When he applied for the limit increase in November 2018 Barclays again did a check with a 
credit reference agency and saw no evidence of missed payments or defaults on that. And 
as the card had been well managed and payments made on time, said there was nothing to 
indicate Mr B would struggle with the increased limit.
I appreciate Mr B has told us his circumstances had dramatically changed at this point in 
time; he had experienced a period of serious ill health and was no longer able to work as he 
had been previously. However, none of this information was available to Barclays at the time 
and its unclear from Mr Bs own testimony whether or not he had clarified the change in 
circumstances before applying for the increased credit limit.
Ive also not seen any evidence from Mr B, such as bank statements or a credit file, that 
shows he was struggling with his finances or that there was anything on his credit file that 
wouldve alerted Barclays to the fact that the new limit may not be sustainable for him. And 
because I have no evidence to show that was the case, I cant uphold his complaint against 
Barclays on that basis. 
Mr B has also said that he never received a response to his initial complaint from Barclays 
and that this caused him a lot of additional stress at a time when he was already 
experiencing serious ill health and upset. Im sorry this is the case but Barclays has provided 
us with a copy of the letter that was sent in December 2022 and so I am satisfied that it 
replied to Mr Bs complaint. I dont doubt Mr B when he says he never received the 
response, but I am satisfied that Barclays sent one.
Finally Mr B has said that he has brought similar complaints to this service about other forms 
of credit he received around the same time and that these were upheld despite him not 
being able to provide bank statements or additional supporting evidence. Im unable to 
comment on the findings in other cases as we look at each complaint on its own individual 
merits. However I will say that different forms of credit may require different types of checks 
and considerations and that in this case Ive considered the types of checks Id expect a 
business like Barclays to complete when providing consumers with access to its credit card. 
Ive not seen anything that says Barclays was wrong to provide Mr B with the credit card 
when it did, or indeed to increase the cards limit in 2018. And so I cant uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman