DRN-3408466
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) terminated the 
hire purchase agreement he had with them. 
What happened
On 28 June 2018 Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for £15,019 over 60 months, with monthly payments of £314.15. 
Mr F fell behind with the payments and payment arrangements were put in place. But Mr F 
didnt keep to these and the arrears grew. In May 2021, Mr F set up a new arrangement for 
£90.66 a month and, when he didnt keep up payments on this, Mr F agreed another 
arrangement of £135 a month. But VWFSs system recognised both arrangements, and they 
continued to try and take payments of £90.66 a month. Which resulted in Mr F incurring bank 
charges. VWFS apologised for this, and paid Mr F £81 to cover the charges he incurred.
Mr F failed to make the agreed payments under the latest arrangement. And, in August 
2021, when he was £3,341.80 in arrears, VWFS issued a default notice. This gave Mr F until 
10 September 2021 to either clear the arrears or make another payment arrangement. And, 
if this wasnt done, the agreement would be terminated, and the car repossessed. Mr F didnt 
contact VWFS until 4 October 2021, when he paid £320 towards the arrears, and agreed 
another arrangement to clear the arrears.
However, the normal payment for October 2021 wasnt paid and, as a result, the agreement 
was terminated on 20 October 2021. But VWFS offered Mr F some non-standard termination 
options  he could sell or part exchange the car, or he could return it to VWFS; to try and 
assist him. And they also agreed to remove any negative information from his credit file.
Mr F wasnt happy with how hed been treated, and he said the attempted collection of the 
£90.66 payments had resulted in the normal payments not being made. But VWFS thought 
theyd acted fairly when dealing with this matter. So, Mr F brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen Mr Fs bank statements, and these showed that the £90.66 
payments were debited and recredited the same day. So, Mr Fs balance was unaffected. 
And he said Mr F was in an unarranged overdraft, so he thought it was most likely that the 
payments failed due to lack of funds. So, while VWFS had made an error, he thought theyd 
acted reasonably by refunding the charges Mr F had incurred.
The investigator also said Mr F had failed to adhere to multiple payment arrangements, and 
he hadnt complied with the notice of default. So, he thought VWFS had acted reasonably 
when they terminated the agreement. He also said that theyd adhered to the regulations to 
treat customers in arrears with consideration and forbearance.  Because of this, he didnt 
think VWFS needed to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. And he didnt think it was fair for multiple transactions 
to be attempted, but the agreement still be terminated. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen Mr F started to miss payments in March 2019, and by April 2021 his account was 
£2,399.35 in arrears. He made payments arrangements with VWFS in July 2019 and March 
2021, but he didnt keep to these. As a result, VWFS issued default notices in April 2020 and 
February 2021. But they didnt default the account.
Mr F entered another arrangement on 4 May 2021, to pay an additional £90.66 a month. Ive 
seen that, between 21 May and 10 September 2021, VWFS unsuccessfully attempted to 
collect the £90.66 on 31 occasions. During this same period, they also attempted to collect 
the monthly payment of £314.15 on seven occasions. Mr Fs banks statements show that the 
payments for these attempted collections were taken from, and returned to, his account the 
same day, so his balance was unaffected. And Mr F had other payments to different 
companies fail during the same period.
On each occasion a payment failed, Mr F was overdrawn on his bank account. And Mr F 
was being charged both arranged and unarranged overdraft fees. So, based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied the payments most likely failed because Mr F had insufficient funds in his 
bank account at the time the request was made, and because his bank wouldnt release the 
requested funds.
Mr F has said that VWFS attempting to take payments on the same day caused them to fail. 
But I dont agree this was the case. On the rare occasion that VWFS attempted to take both 
£90.66 and £314.15 on the same day, his bank didnt release the funds for either request. 
So, Im satisfied that it wasnt this double request that caused the payments to fail i.e. if the 
bank wouldnt pay a lower payment of £90.66, then there would also be insufficient funds to 
make the normal payment of £314.15.
VWFS issued a final default notice on 25 August 2021, when the arrears were £3,341.80. 
And, when Mr F failed to adhere to another payment arrangement, and cancelled his direct 
debit, VWFS terminated the account.
Given the above, Im satisfied VWFS acted reasonably by terminating the account when they 
did. And, for the reasons stated, Im satisfied that this termination was not because of the 
occasions where they tried to collect two different payment amounts on the same day.VWFS are required to treat customers in financial difficulties with consideration and 
forbearance. And, by attempting multiple payment arrangements; by not terminating the 
agreement after the first default notices were sent; by allowing Mr F various options after the 
agreement had been terminated; and by removing the adverse credit from Mr Fs credit file; 
Im satisfied that VWFS have done this. As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr F, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman