DRN-2439256
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Society of Lloyds wont pay her full removal insurance claim following 
damage to her items during a removal.
What happened
In February 2020 Ms S contracted with professional removers to move her household. She 
also took out insurance with them to cover the removal. When the goods arrived at her new 
address two of the items, namely a fridge freezer and a washing machine, were damaged. 
Ms S said that both items were in perfect condition before they were moved, but both had 
been scratched and/or dented during the removal.
Lloyds responded that Ms S had chosen not to use the removers packing service so the 
damage was excluded under the terms of the policy she had taken out. But it offered £300 
(less the £50 excess) for the damage to the fridge freezer, on the basis that the removers 
had put a blanket over it. It emphasised that the policy didnt provide new for old cover. It 
further pointed out that Ms S signed an inventory sheet on which the fridge freezer was 
marked M and SC indicating that the item had marks and scratches on it before removal. 
Ms S denied the fridge freezer was damaged in any way and said that both items were in 
pristine condition. She believes the inventory sheet was fraudulently marked. She further 
said that she wasnt offered the removers packing service and cant see this mentioned 
anywhere in their literature. She further said that the removers didnt handle the items 
properly, in particular they didnt use a palette and packing for the fridge freezer, as the 
blanket wasnt adequate. She believed both items should be replaced with new ones, in 
particular she says that £250 isnt a sufficient payment.
Our investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably within the terms of the policy. She 
pointed that it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy, nor for the removers processing 
of, removal and packing of items.
Ms S disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to look at this matter from the point of view of an insurance claim. I know Ms S has 
concerns about the methods and packing of her items by the removers. But she has made a 
claim on the policy she took out through the removers and this is subject to the terms and 
conditions of that policy. Lloyds isnt responsible for the way the removers handled her 
items, nor is it responsible for the way the policy was sold. I would observe that when Ms S 
bought the removal package the invoice said: 
Our door to door removal charge based on your survey list supplied  based on owner 
packed prior to collection. 
And Ms S said in correspondence with the claims handler:
When the removal services were ordered it was understood that our personal items could 
be packed either by ourselves or by the company. It didnt occur that the company would 
pack a washing machine or double sized fridge freezer if that was the case. 
So Ms S was aware of the option of the removers carrying out the packing. And in that 
event, as Ill set out below, there was an exclusion for any damage caused except in limited 
circumstances. Whilst she may not have considered whether the exclusion would apply, the 
policy wasnt sold to her by Lloyds so it wasnt responsible for drawing that to Ms Ss 
attention.
To take the washing machine first. Ms S arranged for this to be packed in bubble wrap, but 
the bottom of the machine was uncovered and it was this part which suffered chipped paint 
which Ms S says has caused rust to form. She bought the machine a few months before the 
move and from the photos of it in the kitchen and the inventory sheet its not noted as being 
marked in any way before the move. The following exclusion applies, and the policy does not 
cover:
Loss or damage to owner packed property arising from the following:
a. Breakage, scratching, denting, chipping, staining and tearing unless directly caused
by fire or collision or overturning of the transporting conveyance.
So as Ms S had the item packed herself, the damage to it is caught by that exclusion. I think 
the exclusion is one which is reasonable to apply, as if the consumer does their own packing 
it would be reasonable not to cover damage caused by that packing. I note that Ms S said 
the removers told her it was sufficiently packed but again Lloyds simply has to follow its 
policy terms which says it wont pay, subject to the incidents listed, which dont apply here. 
With regard to the fridge freezer I note that Ms S vehemently disputes that it was marked or 
scratched in any way before the removal. She did however sign an inventory sheet which 
had M and SC next to the item and a clear list setting out what that abbreviation meant. 
Nevertheless Lloyds agreed to make a payment for this. The damage consisted of minor 
scratches and dents, and if as Ms S says it was nearly new, I can understand that she would 
be upset by this. But again having pursued the route of making a claim on the insurance 
Ms S has to accept the limitations of that insurance. Under the Basis of Claims Settlement 
in the policy it says:
The settlement of any claim shall be by replacement, repair and/or compensation, taking 
into consideration at underwriters option the age, quality, degree of use and consequent 
market value. This policy is not new for old.
The fridge freezer was still functioning perfectly well. Also under the terms of the policy it 
only had to pay the cost of repair taking into account that though it had only recently been 
bought it was still second hand. Lloyds assessed the limit of its liability and offered to pay 
that less the £50 excess which applies to all claims. I think that was a fair payment. It may 
not allow Ms S to obtain a brand new replacement but shes not entitled to that. Ive seen no 
other evidence to suggest that thats not a reasonable and fair payment.
I should emphasise in making this decision that I have only considered the liability of Lloyds 
as the insurer. I havent made any findings concerning the removers handling of the items or 
of the sale of the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman