DRN-3835581
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and the way they sold, and 
set up, insurance policies for several of her white goods appliances.
What happened
Between late 2021 and late 2022, Mrs T took out a number of insurance policies with DGI to 
cover her white good appliances. But Mrs T became unhappy with these policies, so she 
raised a complaint.
Mrs T was unhappy that DGI had sold her the insurance policies when the appliances all 
came with manufacturers warranty and she had accidental damage cover on her separate 
home insurance policy. So, she didnt think the policies were of use to her and that DGI had 
acted unfairly by charging her monthly premiums when they shouldve been aware of this. 
So, she wanted DGI to refund her the premiums she paid. Mrs T also complained about her 
dishwasher insurance policy in particular, as she felt DGI had set it up the day before shed 
called them to take it out.
DGI responded to Mrs Ts complaint and didnt agree. They were satisfied the policy for the 
dishwasher was set up on the day Mrs T called them to discuss it. And they thought they had 
made it reasonably clear the benefits of the policy. So, they didnt think the policies had been 
mis-sold and they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Mrs T remained unhappy with this response, so she asked for our 
service to investigate her complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought DGI made the 
benefits of the policy reasonably clear. And she didnt think DGI wouldve reasonably known 
that Mrs T definitely had another policy that provided similar benefits, nor would she expect 
them to do so. Because of this, she thought DGI had acted fairly when selling the policies 
and so, she didnt think DGI needed to do anything more.
Mrs T didnt agree with this. And she expressed clearly her unhappiness that her complaint 
regarding the set up of her dishwasher policy hadnt been commented upon. Our investigator 
replied, explaining shed listened to a call recording of a conversation Mrs T had with DGI on 
12 October 2021. And she thought DGI made it reasonably clear the policy would begin on 
that day. So, she was satisfied that the policy had been set up correctly, on the right day.
Mrs T disputed this, explaining she had evidence from her network providers call log that 
showed she hadnt called DGI on this day. So, she disputed the validity of the call recording 
our investigator relied upon. To this day, the evidence Mrs T referred to hasnt been 
provided, bar comments from Mrs T in emails sent to our service. As Mrs T remained 
unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I recognise Mrs T has strongly expressed her view that her complaint relates solely to her 
dishwasher, and the associated policy. So, Ive focused my decision on this policy, although 
I appreciate Mrs T has other policies that insured different appliances which were all 
cancelled at the same time.
Im aware Mrs T believes DGI set up her dishwasher insurance policy before she called 
them. But Ive listened to a call recording held between DGI and Mrs T on 12 October, the 
same day the policy was incepted. Within this call, Mrs T identifies herself and provided her 
postcode, as well as confirming her address, to pass DGIs internal security processes. So, 
Im satisfied that it was more likely than not Mrs T on this call. And crucially, I think DGI were 
fair to conclude this at the time.
While I recognise Mrs T disputes making this call, I havent received evidence from Mrs T, 
such as a call log breakdown, to show she didnt call DGI on this day. And I think its 
important to note that, as DGI also provided the manufacturer warranty for the dishwasher 
Mrs T had, if Mrs T attempted to call the manufacturer to discuss the warranty, she wouldve 
instead reached DGI. While I cant say this for certain, I believe this may be the reason for 
Mrs Ts confusion.
But on the call, after Mrs T confirmed she wished to take out an insurance policy, Ive heard 
DGI confirmed the direct debit would show on her policy under their name. And throughout 
the call, I think DGI made it clear the policy would be separate to anything already provided 
by the manufacturer. So, I think DGI made it reasonably clear Mrs T was talking to them, and 
that the policy would be provided by them.
Also within this call, after Mrs T agreed to take the policy, DGI confirmed that the policy 
would start from that day, confirming the date as 12th October 2021, and that it would run 
until Mrs T told them she wished to cancel it. When DGI asked Mrs T to confirm she was 
happy with this she replied, Yes I am. Had Mrs T held concerns about the date, I wouldve 
expected it to be raised then. But it wasnt. So, I dont think Ive seen any evidence to show 
DGI made an error when incepting the policy from 12th October.
Ive then turned to Mrs Ts unhappiness with the overall sale of the policy. In Mrs Ts 
complaint to DGI, and in her explanation to our service in her original complaint form, Mrs T 
described her unhappiness that the policy she took out failed to provide any additional 
benefits to what she already held with the manufacturers warranty and her home insurance.
But within the call recording, I think DGI made it reasonably clear that the insurance policy 
covered Mrs Ts dishwasher for any accidental damage, which wasnt covered under the 
manufacturers warranty. So, I think the policy did provide additional benefits to the warranty 
Mrs T held.
And following on from this discussion, when DGI read the terms and conditions of the policy, 
they stated you may already have alternative insurance for some or all of the features and 
benefits Ive mentioned which you would need to check before going on to explain that Mrs 
T was able to cancel the policy, and receive a full refund of any premiums, within 14 days of 
the policy inception. So, I think DGI placed the onus on Mrs T to ensure she didnt already hold an insurance 
policy that provided similar benefits. In this situation, Mrs T has said she held accidental 
damage cover as part of her home insurance policy. But I wouldnt expect DGI to know this, 
as Mrs T hadnt made this clear. Nor would I expect DGI to assume Mrs T held this cover, as 
its usually an add on to a standard home insurance policy.
I think DGI made it clear to Mrs T that she should check she didnt hold similar cover 
elsewhere. And they gave Mrs T time to check this and cancel the policy, without any 
financial cost to herself. I think it was then Mrs Ts decision whether she wished to do so.
In this situation, Mrs T didnt request to cancel the policies until around a year later. As this is 
outside of the 14-day cooling off period she was given, I wouldnt expect any premiums she 
paid to be refunded to her. This is because during the time the policies were live, Mrs T 
wouldve been able to claim on the policies to repair any damage to her dishwasher, or other 
insurance appliances. So, Mrs T received the benefit of the policies that the premiums were 
intended for. 
Because of the above, I think DGI acted fairly when selling the policies. And I think they were 
reasonable when refusing to refund Mrs T the premiums shed paid. So, I dont think DGI 
need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman