DRN-2336978
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nottingham Building Society (NBS) referred her to a third-party 
business (A), for estate planning and will writing services, that later went into administration.
 
What happened
Mrs C has told us that in 2014 NBS referred her to A to write a will and help with estate 
planning. NBS says it acted as an introducer to A in 2014. 
A arranged a will for Mrs C and set up a deed of trust. Mrs C says the total cost for these 
services was £3,255. 
In February 2018 A went into administration and Mrs C says she wasnt sure what to do 
next. As a result, Mrs C obtained some legal advice at a cost of £747.
Mrs C complained to NBS and asked it to refund the costs she had incurred with A and pay 
for the legal advice she obtained. NBS didnt agree to cover Mrs Cs costs and said that 
once she met with A it was her decision to proceed and pay for its services. 
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
we could only consider the actions of NBS when introducing Mrs C to A. The investigator 
thought NBS introduction of Mrs C to A was reasonable and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs C asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs C for the level of detail included in her submissions to our service. I do 
understand that this situation has caused considerable inconvenience to Mrs C and that she 
felt it necessary to obtain legal advice once A went into administration. But, as our 
investigator has said, our role is to look at NBS actions. 
NBS accepts that it referred Mrs C to A when she wanted help writing a will and with estate 
planning. Ive considered whether NBS could reasonably have known A would go into 
administration in 2018 when it referred Mrs C in 2014. 
NBS has advised there were two meetings involved as part of the referral. The first would 
have been to establish Mrs Cs needs and the second to discuss the options available to her. 
At that point, NBS says it was up to Mrs C to decide whether she wanted to proceed. Whilst I 
agree NBS did introduce Mrs C to A, Im satisfied it was her choice to proceed with the 
services she discussed. 
I have sympathy for Mrs Cs situation and I understand why she has complained. However, 
Im not persuaded NBS could reasonably have known in 2014 that A would go into 
administration in 2018. Im satisfied that when NBS introduced Mrs C to A in 2014 there was 
a reasonable expectation it would continue to operate in the long term and provide the 
services she paid for. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but Im satisfied NBS introduction to A was made in good faith 
and that it has dealt with her complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling NBS to take any 
further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman