DRN-3571423
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Select and 
Platinum packaged bank accounts. These were sold to him at some point prior to September 
2001 and September 2005, respectively.
Mr O says that they were mis-sold because he got a new job which resulted in an increase 
to his income and he says Lloyds suggested he consider upgrading his account to access 
better service and benefits for a minimal monthly fee. However, Mr O says that the benefits 
werent really explained, and he didnt really need or use the benefits that came with the 
accounts. 
What happened
Lloyds said that our service is unable to consider Mr Os complaint about the sale of the 
Platinum account. I have already issued a decision to explain why I agreed with Lloyds on 
this point.
Lloyds did however uphold Mr Os complaint about the sale of his Select account. To put 
matters right, Lloyds refunded Mr Os Select account fees and also paid him 8% simple 
interest, less tax, on those fees. 
One of our adjudicators considered what Lloyds had done to put matters right, and he 
agreed that Lloyds offer was reasonable. Mr O disagreed and so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I think 
that what Lloyds agreed to do, to put matters right in relation to the sale of the Select 
account was reasonable. I will explain why.
Having looked at Lloyds final response letter, I can see that it calculated the total redress to 
be paid to Mr O for the Select account was £813.22. This comprised of a refund of the Select 
account fees Mr O paid up until the account was upgraded to a Platinum account - totalling 
£366. It also included 8% simple interest, less basic rate tax, calculated from the date each 
fee was paid up until the date of settlement - which came to a total of £447.22, after tax. And 
from what I have seen these figures look to be correct.
However, Lloyds based the refund of the Select account fees from a theoretical sale date of 
May 1999. This was because Lloyds didnt know when exactly Mr O upgraded his account to 
the Select account, as it happened so long ago. So it based the refund of the account fees to 
go back to the mid-point between the earliest known date that Mr O had the Select account - 
September 2001; and the date the Select account was first launched  January 1997. 
I note that Mr O has questioned the fairness of this. However, neither he nor Lloyds are able 
to say when exactly the account was sold. The only evidence that is available shows that Mr 
O had a Select account and that he was paying the monthly fee for it (which was £4 per 
month at the time) in September 2001. But I dont think it would be fair to only refund back to 
September 2001, as its likely that Mr O wouldve paid some fees prior to this date. But 
equally, there is no evidence to suggest that he took it out from when it was first launched 
either.
As such, without any other evidence to go on, I think that choosing to refund the account 
fees going back to the mid-point between the launch date of the Select account and the 
earliest known date that Mr O held the Select account, is a fair and reasonable way to 
approach matters in the circumstances. I also think this is the case because, even if Mr O 
had upgraded his account in January 1997, the total amount of redress paid to Mr O 
(including the compensatory interest award) will still be more than the total amount that Mr O 
wouldve paid in Select account fees  bearing in mind that it initially only cost £3 per month 
when it was first launched.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I think that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to 
put matters right in relation to the sale of the Select account to Mr O is fair and reasonable. I 
therefore dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more in relation to this matter.
  
Now that I have made my decision, under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman