DRN-3248769
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Unum Limited declined a claim made on an income protection
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer,
which can pay a portion of his income after hed been off work sick for 26 weeks (the
deferred period).
Mr M became absent from work in March 2018 and his GP documented the reason for his
absence as depression and anxiety. A claim was made on the policy during the deferred
period, which was ultimately declined by Unum. Unum said Mr M didnt meet the policy
definition of being incapacitated.
Unhappy, Mr M appealed the decision. Unum maintained its position to decline the claim and
Mr M complained to our Service.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. He recommended that an independent
medical assessment take place to consider whether Mr M met the policy definition of being
incapacitated during the deferred period.
Unum disagreed with our investigators recommendation and Mr M raised several points in
reply. So, the complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2021 explaining why I was intending to 
partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. An extract of which is set out below:
Unum has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn down a
claim unreasonably. When making a claim, its for Mr M to demonstrate that he met the
definition of incapacity.
The policy terms:
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, and relevant to the circumstances of this
complaint, the policy provides that the member is incapacitated, and Unum will pay the
monthly benefit (from the start of the deferred period), if:
For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the deferred
period, if
(a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and
(b) the member is not following any occupation
Insured occupation is defined as:
the trade, profession or general role that the member was actively undertaking for,
or at, the employer immediately prior to incapacity
And material and substantial is defined as:
the duties that are normally required for the performance of the members insured
occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified
Illness is defined as:
ill-health or disease as evidenced by a significant or objectively determined
deterioration in physical or mental health.
Was Mr M incapacitated?
Unum has said that Mr M was suffering with stress, which it says isnt an illness. Its also
said that there isnt enough in the medical evidence to support that Mr Ms ability to carry out
the insured occupation was sufficiently impaired throughout the deferred period.
Mr M wasnt engaged in any other occupation, so the crux of the issue I have to decide is
whether Unum fairly and reasonably concluded that Mr M didnt meet the policy definition of
being incapacitated during the deferred period.
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
this issue. And having done so, Im not currently satisfied Unum has acted fairly and
reasonably here. Ill explain why.
Two of Unums Chief Medical Officers (CMOs)  both Consultant Psychiatrists  produced
various reports as part of Unums assessment of Mr Ms claim and subsequent appeal. Its
reflected that, in their medical opinion, Mr Ms absence wasnt the result of a recognised
mental illness but as a result of stress triggers caused by personal circumstances.
So, theyve concluded Mr M was experiencing stress during the deferred period rather than a
recognised illness. Ive considered what theyve said very carefully in light of Mr Ms medical
history and the information provided by his GP.
The GP certificates, signing Mr M off work, during the deferred period and up to and
including when he returned to work on a phased return (January 2019), state the reason why
Mr G was unable to work was due to depression and anxiety.
The GP certificates arent determinative, but they are a relevant consideration here.
In support of Mr Ms appeal, Mr Ms GP provided a letter dated 15 January 2019  so around
four months after the date on which the deferred period ended - which reflects:
Mr Ms absence from work has been entirely due to his anxiety and depression as
described by the fit notes provided for him. Again I repeat he has been seen by
specialists to try and manage his symptoms. He continues to be prescribed
Fluoxetine for the treatment of this as well as attending therapy He is currently
involved in psychodynamic therapy.
Although Mr M has had stressful personal circumstances intermittently through this
period of mental illness, his underlying diagnosis of anxiety and depression for which
he is being signed unfit to work has not changed.
And on 2 April 2019, Mr Ms GP also said that stress wasnt the cause for Mr Ms absence
from work otherwise I would have declared that in the fitness to works certificate and in factyou will read that it states anxiety and depressionbased on the ICD10 definition. It was this
that caused dysfunction impairment preventing [Mr M] from attending his role.
Mr M was under regular review with his GP  including during the deferred period. And from
what Ive seen, Mr Ms medical records reflect that hed had bouts of low mood, tiredness
and depression for many years before the start of the deferred period. He had also been
prescribed anti-depressants and had attended counselling.
The GP notes from January 2018  so before the start of the deferred period - reflect that
hed been feeling low over Christmas, his sleep had been affected and he had suicidal
ideation. At that time, he was still managing to work but hed been referred to a Psychiatrist
in February 2018  again before the start of the deferred period. But towards the end of
February 2018, its reflected that a close family member had been diagnosed with a terminal
illness and this seems to have resulted in a deterioration in Mr Ms mental wellbeing.
Overall, Im satisfied that the totality of the medical evidence reflects that Mr Ms GP had a
good understanding of Mr Ms condition  and Mr M had been under their care for a
significant amount of time. Although, the CMOs are both Consultant Psychiatrists, in this
particular case, Ive placed more weight on what Mr Ms GP has said about Mr M living with
depression and anxiety (as opposed to stress) during the deferred period  which are
recognised illnesses.
When doing so, Ive also considered what Unum says in response to our investigators view
about a psychiatric assessment which was carried out by a psychiatric nurse shortly before
the start of deferred period on 21 January 2018. And the psychiatric nurse concluding that
Mr M didnt display any overt symptoms of clinical depression. However, Im conscious that
this assessment was carried out over six weeks before Mr M was signed off work by his GP
and Unum had earlier said in its final response letter to Mr Ms employer dated 11 October
2019: Mr M believes that the reference to no overt signs of clinical depression is the basis
for Unums decision. This is not the basis upon which Unums decision was made since the
correspondence in question was not from the deferred period.
Ive placed more weight on the report of the Senior Psychodynamic Psychotherapist who
had been meeting with Mr M between 20 June 2018 and 12 December 2018, who said in a
letter (dated 10 January 2019) that Mr M had finished this therapy and had now been
discharged. And that the ending came at a difficult time and coincided with the death of a
close relative and return to work after a period of sick leave. It concludes:
We have discussed in-depth [Mr Ms] need for longer term psychoanalytic
psychotherapy to address his depression (my emphasis).
So, this supports the diagnosis of Mr Ms GP. And, overall, Im satisfied that Mr M did have
an illness  as defined by the policy - during the deferred period.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr Ms illness impaired his ability to perform the material
and substantial duties of the insured occupation during the deferred period.
As Ive said, its for Mr M to prove his claim. Unum has said that theres a lack of objective
evidence of any functional impairment. And I havent been provided with a functional
assessment for Mr M that was carried out by a Psychiatrist of Physiotherapist during the
deferred period or shortly after. That wouldve, of course, been helpful when considering
whether Mr M met the policy definition of being incapacitated.
Ive considered whether there would be value in me directing the parties to instruct an
independent medical expert (IME) to report on Mr Ms functional ability and whether, in theirmedical opinion, he was able to carry out the material and substantial duties of the insured
role during the deferred period. And this is what our investigator recommended when
partially upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Unum has said in response to the investigators view that although it may have been
relevant at the time, an IME two years down the line would not be of relevance to the
deferred period. Im also conscious that its almost three years now since the start of the
deferred period. So, in the circumstances, Im persuaded that an IME assessment is unlikely
to be helpful in the current circumstances, particularly as Mr M returned to work in January
2019.
But I have seen evidence which is relevant to Mr Ms functional ability during the deferred
period.
In support of his claim under the policy, Mr M completed a claim form in July 2018. He said:
I have prolonged low moods and irritability, coupled with low energy, tiredness and
an inability to focus for long periods. This strongly affects my motivation and ability to
work. I need to be able to work on complex managerial tasks and technical matters
without difficultly but am now finding this very difficult.
This isnt inconsistent with whats reflected in Mr Ms GP notes during the deferred period.
Mr Ms symptoms are largely self-reported but, a month before the start of the deferred
period, Mr M had been referred to a Psychiatrist and he was having therapy for around half
of the deferred period (as there was a waiting list for treatment). He was also taking 
antidepressant medication which had been increased during the deferred period to 60mg 
daily but was then reduced back to 40mg daily at the start of September 2018, which 
coincided with around the end of the deferred period. Mr M had reported some progress, it 
wasnt felt that he was fit to return to work; he was still experiencing low mood and anxiety.
A month later, on 4 October 2018, Mr Ms GP wrote to the occupational health advisor about
his fitness to return to work. The letter says:
Currently his functional impairment is due to feeling extremely tired, he has poor 
sleep, difficulty to concentrate and motivate himself.
On the balance of probabilities, from the evidence Ive been provided with, Im persuaded
that Mr M was incapacitated during the deferred period. So, I dont think it was fair and
reasonable for Unum to have declined the claim for the reasons it has  and the benefit
payable under the policy was due from the end of the deferred period.
Mr Ms return to work in the insured occupation
Ive gone on to consider for how long the benefit should be paid for under the policy,
considering that Mr M returned back to work  initially on a phased return  on 7 January
2019.
The occupational health report dated 19 October 2018 suggested a phased return over six
weeks, initially working four hours, three days per week - and increasing week on week
thereafter until Mr M returned back to work full time after six weeks.
Mr M has confirmed that he did complete a phased return back to work over a period of six
weeks starting 7 January 2019. He says his employer paid him in full during this period.
However, theres an entry in the GP notes dated 22 October 2018 which reflects that Mr Mwas due to return to work on a phased basis in November 2018 and thats supported by an
occupational health report dated 19 October 2019. Mr Ms GP fit note was due to end on 22
November 2018.
Mr M was subsequently signed off sick by his GP until the start of January 2019. Theres an
entry in the GP notes dated 30 November 2018 which reflects that Mr Ms close family
member was now critically ill, so Mr M was going to stay with them and look to return to work
before Christmas. His mood was said to be: up and down.
I intend to find that although Mr M was signed off sick by his GP until early January 2019, Mr
M chose not to return to work at the end of November 2018 because he wanted to be with
the close relative. Thats completely understandable but given the occupational report dated
October 2018 and that Mr M was able to return to work shortly after the very sad death of the
close family member, Im intending to find that his phased return to work couldve started on
23 November 2019.
Ive got no reason to find that Mr M wouldnt have been paid by his employer in full if he had
returned to work on a phased basis on 23 November 2018, instead of January 2019.
So, I intend to direct Unum to pay the monthly benefit from the end of the deferred period in
September 2018 up to and including 22 November 2018 and simple interest at a rate of 8%
per annum in line with the putting things right section of my decision below.
I also think Mr M experienced unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of Unum
unfairly declining the claim made under the policy. Although, its for him to prove his claim
and so some inconvenience is likely to be expected in order to gather and collate information
in support of his claim, Mr M was put to the extra and unnecessary inconvenience of having
to correspond with Unum several times about his claim (via his employer). He also says he
had to use savings to help him through a difficult period when he couldve received some
benefit under the policy from the end of the deferred period. Its clear Mr M was going
through a difficult time but, Im satisfied, not receiving the policys benefit wouldve
exacerbated an already distressing time.
I explained that I was intending to direct Unum to pay:
- Mr Ms employer (as the policyholder) the monthly benefit from the end of the 
deferred period in September 2018 to 22 November 2018.
- Mr M directly:
- simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum* from the date on which Unum 
shouldve paid each monthly benefit under the policy to the date on which it 
makes payment; and
- compensation in the sum of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr M 
experienced as a result of not receiving the payment when he reasonably 
shouldve.
Response to my provisional decision 
I invited the parties to provide me with any further comments or information. 
Mr M replied saying that he was content with the suggestion that Unum pay the monthly 
benefit from the end of the deferred period to 22 November 2018 along with simple interest 
at 8% per annum. However, he felt the compensation amount of £200 wasnt fair. He set out the reasons why he felt this amount should be higher. He suggested I award him £400 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Unum said that, overall, it accepted my provisional decision to pay the claim between the 
end of the deferred period and 22 November 2018 along with compensation in the sum of 
£200. It felt this was a fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances. However, it said 
interest should be paid to Mr Ms employer as the policyholder rather than to Mr M directly. It 
gave its reasons for this.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I partially uphold it.
In light of my provisional findings, both parties accept that the claim should be paid from the 
end of the deferred period up to and including 22 November 2018. 
Ive considered the points put forward by Mr M in support of his suggestion that 
compensation for distress and inconvenience should be increased from £200 to £400. 
However, it was for him to establish that he met the policy definition of incapacity and its 
somewhat inevitable that there would be some distress and inconvenience experienced 
trying to obtain the necessary information in support of his claim. And overall, Im satisfied 
£200 reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what Unum did 
wrong here. 
Mr M has also said, in its final response letter dated October 2019, Unum was prepared  on 
this occasion - to reimburse him the cost of two GP letters he paid for in the sum of £72 upon 
receipt of invoices. He says those invoices had already been sent to Unum. Unum has since 
confirmed that it did receive those invoices and has no objections to me directing it to 
reimburse this amount to Mr M. 
Ive also considered the points put forward by Unum in support of its position that interest 
payable on the claim (that its now agreed to pay) shouldnt be paid directly to Mr M, but to 
his employer as the policyholder. However, Im satisfied that it was Mr M who lost out by not 
receiving the benefit, not his employer. And it was Mr M who has been without the money he 
ought to have reasonably received under the policy for a period of time at the end of 2018. 
So, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.  
Putting things right
I direct Unum to pay:
Mr Ms employer (as the policyholder) the monthly benefit from the end of the 
deferred period in September 2018 to 22 November 2018.
Mr M directly:
- simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum* from the date on which Unum 
shouldve paid each monthly benefit under the policy to the date on which it 
makes payment; - compensation in the sum of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr M
experienced as a result of not receiving the payment when he reasonably 
shouldve;
- the amount of £72 to reflect the cost of the GP letters he provided to Unum.
*If Unum Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a
certificate showing this if Mr M asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Unum Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman