DRN-3414860
The complaint
Mr O complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (hereafter LV) avoided 
his income protection policy and refused to pay his claim. 
What happened
Mr O took out an LV income protection policy via an intermediary Ill call F. He later made a 
claim on that policy following an accident, but when LV began to assess it, it said questions 
about Mr Os medical history hadnt been answered correctly at the time of the sale. LV said 
it wouldnt have provided the policy had those questions been answered correctly, so it 
avoided the policy and said itd refund Mr Os premiums. 
Mr O complained. He said he was unaware hed taken the policy out via F and thought he 
was dealing with LV, but in any event he had disclosed details of his medical history to the F 
during the sale. 
LV maintained its position. It also advised that given what Mr O had said it would have 
ordinarily forwarded Mr Os complaint to F too, but as F was now dissolved that wasnt 
something it could do. LV provided Mr O with details of organisations that it said might be 
able to provide further support, as well as details of the Financial Service Compensation 
Scheme.
Mr O referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. They explained the relevant law (CIDRA), and said there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation under it. While they didnt think that misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, they did think it was careless and said LV was entitled to avoid Mr Os policy and 
return the premiums hed paid in view of that. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said LV should have verified the information provided by F by 
contacting him directly, and it shouldnt have relied on an application form without 
establishing eligibility via the call Mr O had with F. He also recited parts of CIDRA and asked 
for an ombudsman to review matters. So I now need to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not be upholding this complaint for the reasons given below:
When a consumer applies for an insurance policy, theyll be asked a variety of 
questions. An insurer relies on the answers to those questions being accurate  
because it will use them to assess the potential risks that consumer might present 
and to decide whether its prepared to insure them.
When Mr O applied for his policy he was asked a number of questions. In line with 
the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 (CIDRA) he had 
a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering 
them. And, if a misrepresentation occurred, LV had remedial actions available to in 
line with the same Act. 
Ive included some of the questions Mr O was asked when applying for his LV policy 
below, and I think they were all clear and specific:
Question Have you ever had:
Any condition affecting your heart or arteries or surgery on your heart or 
arteries?
Including:
Angina or heart attack
Angioplasty, stent or bypass
Irregular heart beat
Heart valve or heart structure abnormalities Cardiomyopathy
Question Other than for conditions that youve already told us about, in the last 2 
years have you:
Been under follow-up with your GP surgery, or a specialist, hospital or 
clinic?
Including:
oMinor injuries or strains
oReviews or check-ups that you have been asked to 
attend even if you didnt
Been referred to a specialist or had or been advised to have any 
medical investigations?
Including:
oMinor injuries or sprains
oA blood test or biopsy
oUltrasound, x-ray, CT or MRI scan
oECG or other heart investigation
Question In the last 2 years have you:
Been off work due to sickness or injury for a period of more than 5 days 
in a row?
Mr Os answers to all of those questions was recorded as no. LV says they should 
have been answered as yes, because when Mr O actually claimed it found out he 
had; undergone heart related medical treatment within the last two years, had a 
pacemaker fitted, and had taken two weeks off work. Mr Os medical history isnt 
disputed here and I agree his answers should have been yes. 
I understand Mr O says LV shouldnt have solely relied on his application form or set 
the policy up without verifying his eligibility for it, but Im not persuaded I can fairly 
agree. LV set Mr Os policy up based on the information it received from F on Mr Os 
behalf. LV has explained that it didnt identify a need to obtain further information 
about Mr Os medical history at the time given all of his answers to the medical questions were recorded as no. I dont think that is unreasonable, and I also note 
that page one of the application form completed for Mr Os policy read:
It is your responsibility to ensure that the information contained within this document 
is complete and accurate. You should not assume we will write to your doctor, or that 
your doctor will provide the information we need to process your cover. 
If you find any errors in this information you must inform us immediately on [] 
Failure to do so may result in your policy being cancelled and no claim being paid.
The call Mr O had with F isnt available and F is now dissolved, so what was or was 
not said during it isnt something that can be established. I appreciate Mr O says hed 
assumed he was dealing LV directly, but he wasnt, and it would not be right of me to 
find that LV were responsible for Fs actions. 
Given the answers that were submitted when he applied for the policy, I cant fairly 
conclude that Mr O took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. But, like 
the investigator before me, I agree it would be unfair to conclude that Mr O had 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his position. I think it would be fair to 
categorise his misrepresentation as careless and LV has shown this service it 
wouldnt have offered Mr O a policy had that misrepresentation not occurred. So, in 
line with the remedial action it is permitted to take under CIDRA, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of LV to avoid the policy and refund Mr Os premiums. 
Im empathise with Mr Os position given F is now dissolved, but I will not be 
interfering with LVs position on this occasion. Im sorry to disappoint Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman