DRN-2058787
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc are holding him liable for transactions he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. He is also unhappy with the service he received and that his 
account was closed.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Mr A held several accounts with Barclays. In early 2019 Mr A was contacted by Barclays and 
informed that his accounts were around £13,000 overdrawn. Mr A says this was a complete 
surprise to him. 
Mr A later alleged a fraudster had contacted Barclays claiming to be him and had disputed 
transactions that had taken place between September 2017 and April 2018. Barclays 
responded to this by issuing temporary refunds, prior to investigating the disputed 
transactions.
Shortly after the temporary refunds credited the accounts, the money was withdrawn / spent 
using a variety of methods including card payments and online transfers. Following their 
investigation, Barclays held Mr A liable for the disputed transactions. They re-debited the 
funds from his accounts which is what resulted in the overdrawn balance. 
Mr A pointed out that Barclays had made an error in re-debiting the temporary refunds. 
Barclays say they corrected this but it still left Mr A overdrawn by around £7,000. Mr A repaid 
the overdraft to bring his account balance to zero in April 2019. Barclays went on to close all 
Mr As accounts with them. 
Mr A complained. He says he didnt dispute the transactions prior to the temporary refund 
nor did he authorise the card payments or online transfers made after the temporary refund 
was given. He was also unhappy with a call handler on one of his calls not correctly verifying 
his identity. 
Barclays accepted that one call could have been handled better and offered Mr A £50 
compensation for the impact of this. But with regard to the disputed transactions, they 
maintained their position. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary, she concluded that Mr A had been unable to provide a plausible 
explanation for how his details had all been compromised to allow the temporary refunds to 
have been spent. This included but wasnt limited to his personal information, online banking 
details and card and PIN number. She also pointed out that the error Barclays had made 
when re-debiting the temporary refunds had resulted in Mr A profiting by around £2,400. So, 
she didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do more.
Mr A disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for very similar reasons to our 
investigator. Let me explain why. 
Temporary Credits and Re-Debits
The person who called Barclays to dispute transactions in December 2018 had a large 
amount of information about Mr A and his account. This included personal information and 
information about payments made on the account in the previous year. Mr A says it wasnt 
him who made these calls. If that is the case, I dont think Barclays reasonably could have 
known this or did anything wrong when issuing temporary refunds whilst they investigated. 
Following Barclays investigation, they decided to hold Mr A liable for those transactions. 
Mr A too accepts that those disputed transactions were his genuine account use. So, it 
follows that I dont think Mr A was entitled to the temporary refunds as this was in lieu of 
previous spending he accepts was his. So, Ive checked what happened with the temporary 
refunds and the re-debits to make sure Mr A hasnt lost out as a result. 
Ive checked the bank statements for that period and can see that by 20 December 2018 
temporary refunds totalling just over £9,400 had been credited to Mr As account. Following 
the conclusion of their investigation Barclays then re-debited the account. By 23 January 
2019 they had taken back a total of just under £13,000. Clearly this was an error as the initial 
refunds were around £9,400, meaning Mr A was at this point (with respect to the credits and 
re-debits) out of pocket by around £3,600. 
In their efforts to put things right, Barclays made further credits to Mr As account. By 15 
February 2019 these totalled just under £6,000. This again appears to be an error but this 
time it was in Mr As favour by around £2,400. 
So, looking at this as a whole, I accept that Barclays made some errors when calculating 
what was admittedly quite a large and complex set of disputed transactions. But as Mr A has 
profited from this, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything further to resolve this aspect 
of the complaint. 
Transactions Mr A disputes
But that isnt the end of the story, once the temporary credits arrived Mr As account there 
were transactions which he says he didnt make or authorise. These were spread across 
more than one account and included card payments, online banking payments and 
payments made via a mobile device.
Following our services involvement Barclays concluded Mr A had made or otherwise 
authorised these transactions and our investigator agreed. Generally speaking, a bank can 
only hold a customer liable for disputed transactions if the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that the customer made or authorised those transactions. 
For a transaction to be authorised it must first be authenticated. This can be done in a 
number of ways including chip and PIN or through online banking security. In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied the transactions in dispute were all correctly 
authenticated. That being they were correctly verified by the security details applicable to 
each payment method. But, Ive gone on to consider whether or not Mr A consented to the 
transactions.
Mr A says he had no knowledge of the transactions that withdrew the temporary credits. He 
says at the time he was using his account with another bank. He believes the same person 
who fraudulently disputed the earlier transactions is responsible for spending the temporary 
refunds.
Mr A says his last genuine use of his accounts was on 17 December 2018 and that nothing 
following that was him. Ive thought carefully about this and on balance, I think it is more 
likely than not that Mr A made or otherwise authorised the transactions he disputes. I say 
this for the following reasons:
Mr A says he never wrote down or shared his PIN numbers. So, its hard to 
understand how there is a point of compromise for these. The last genuine chip and 
PIN use was several days prior to the first disputed use  I dont think its likely there 
would be such a long gap if Mr A had been shoulder surfed or similar.
In order to make mobile banking or online payments a third party would have needed 
to have known Mr As online banking login details including his passwords and have 
access to his card reader, card and on occasions his phone. There is no plausible 
explanation as to how this could have happened without Mr As knowledge. 
The payments authenticated via mobile phone were done using Mr As phone. Again, 
its difficult to understand how someone else could have had access to Mr As phone 
to enable this without his knowledge.
Notification of some of the initial disputed transactions (which Mr A claims were 
raised by a third party) were done in branch. The evidence shows that Mr As identity 
was verified in branch through checking his drivers licence. Mr A says this wasnt 
him. I dont think its likely that a third party would have forged Mr As drivers licence 
and have been able to impersonate him in branch in that way. I think its more likely 
than not that this was Mr A himself. This causes me to question the weight I can 
place on Mr As testimony as reliable evidence.
Overall, I dont think Barclays were being unreasonable when deciding to hold Mr A liable for 
the transactions following the temporary refunds to his account. Mr A hasnt been able to 
explain how all the information required would have been available to an unknown third 
party.  
Account Closure and Customer Service
On 15 March 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr A and told him they would be closing his accounts 
as of 16 May 2019. The terms and conditions of the accounts allow them to do so and say 
that in most cases they will give 60 days notice. Just as Mr A is free to decide who he 
wishes to bank with, Barclays too, can decide who they wish to have as a customer. Ive not 
seen evidence to suggest that the account closure was outside the terms and conditions of 
the account or that Mr A was treated unfairly in these circumstances.
Barclays upheld part of Mr As complaint and acknowledged that during one call with them, 
their caller verification process wasnt correctly completed. They apologised for this and 
offered £50 compensation for the impact this had on Mr A. I think this is fair. Fortunately, Barclays were speaking to Mr A, but I can understand why Mr A was frustrated that Barclays 
didnt follow the correct procedures. But Im satisfied £50 is a fair amount to compensate for 
this and in the wider circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded there were further 
instances of poor service that warrant increasing this compensation. Particularly in a case 
such as this, where an error by Barclays (as described above) has resulted in Mr A being in 
a better position. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman