DRN-1109632
The complaint
Mrs D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance alongside a credit card 
that started in 1995. As Mrs D has been bankrupt since she bought the policy, this complaint 
is brought with the permission of the official receiver.
What happened
In 1995 Mrs D applied for a credit card. At some point before the card was charged off in 
2003 Mrs D bought a PPI policy, which would help repay the account if she was off work sick 
or lost her job. Mrs D thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs D 
didn't agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs D knew she had a choice to buy the PPI. Mrs D says she 
wasn't told anything about the PPI during the meeting she applied for the card - and so 
wasn't told PPI was going to be added to her account. I've thought about this alongside the 
other information I've seen about the sale.
Because of the time that's passed, Lloyds can't say precisely when the PPI started. But I 
don't think that's unreasonable given that the card opened in 1995, almost 25 years ago. I 
see that the earliest statement I've seen, from 2000, shows a charge for PPI - so it must 
have been sold before then. And based on what I know about practice in the industry 
generally, I think the most likely point PPI would be added was when the account opened.
Lloyds has sent us an example of the application form it used around this time. In the 
absence of better information, I think this is the best evidence I have of what Mrs D is likely 
to have seen at the time. I see that to apply for the PPI Mrs D needed to tick a box on a 
separate section of the application form. I'm also mindful that the sale took place a long time 
ago, and memories can and do fade over time. For these reasons, I think it's most likely that 
Mrs D knew she had a choice and chose to buy the PPI - even if, after all this time, she 
doesn't now remember this.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs D so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs D's circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Though I 
acknowledge that Mrs D got some sick pay and redundancy pay from her employer, this 
policy would have repaid a tenth of the balance outstanding when she claimed for up to 12 months if she'd lost her job or was off work sick - and I think it's likely this benefit would have 
been paid in addition to what she got from her employer. I think she had a need for the 
cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
   Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs D, 
that was unfair. 
    To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything D has said. But these points dont change my conclusions.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman