DRN-3407170
The complaint
Mrs V and Mr V complain about the handling of a claim under their home insurance policy by 
their insurer, esure Insurance Limited (esure). 
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs V and Mr V noticed water soaking through the walls of the utility room 
at their property. As they had home emergency cover as part of their home insurance policy 
(provided by a separate insurer, A) they contacted A, who said the policy didnt cover trace 
and access to determine the cause of the leak. They advised Mrs V and Mr V to engage a 
plumber to determine the source of the leak, and to contact them (A) once theyd done so. 
But Mrs V and Mr V had a separate home emergency policy with another insurer, who sent a 
plumber to the property and found the source of the leak and carry out a repair.
Given the damage from the leak, Mrs V and Mr V contacted esure to lodge a claim. esure 
appointed a surveyor (V) to inspect the damage and assess the repair work needed. V 
visited the property and appointed a firm (P) to dry the affected areas, which started. P said 
that the kitchen would need to be stripped out, which would affect the cooking facilities and 
potentially mean that Mrs V and Mr V would need to be offered alternative accommodation 
or disturbance allowance. Because the likely costs of repair were significant, esure also 
appointed a loss adjuster (S) to manage the work required to repair the damage.
esure tried to find alternative accommodation for Mrs V and Mr V (for the period when their 
kitchen was going to be stripped out) but their agents couldnt locate something suitable. As 
an alternative, they offered to provide a cooking pod at the property, but they wouldnt 
agree to place this at the rear of the property due to the cost. Mrs V and Mr V elected to use 
their own contractor for the work, visiting the property in late November. The search for 
alternative accommodation and the alternative pod option took place in December and into 
January. The drying out of the property was completed in January. At that point there was 
potential further delay because of the impact of the second national lockdown.
Unhappy at the time being taken to assess the claim and carry out the repair and 
reinstatement work, as well as the difficult living conditions at their property, Mrs V and Mr V 
complained to esure in January 2021. The main issues of their complaint were that they 
werent provided with trace and access cover to find (and fix) the leak. Also, they hadnt 
been provided with alternative accommodation as well as the delays to their claim being 
assessed and the repair work being carried out. They were also unhappy at what they 
thought was separate damage to the decoration of two bedrooms that they thought was the 
result of condensation from the drying operation. They were also concerned that esure 
wouldnt cover the cost or replacing matching worktops in the utility room. 
esure considered Mrs V and Mr Vs complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response they 
said that the terms and conditions of the policy meant that trace and access wasnt provided. 
On alternative accommodation, esure said that S had sought to provide this but werent able 
to secure suitable alternative accommodation. While temporary cooking facilities could be 
provided, the cost of placing this at the rear of the property couldnt be justified for the short 
time it would be needed. esure also thought the property was habitable and could be lived in. 
On the issue of the replacement of undamaged matching worktops, esure said that while the 
policy didnt provide cover for undamaged items, but they were offering a 50% contribution 
(in line with guidance from this service). On the issue of damage to the upstairs bedrooms, 
esure said their surveyor had concluded the issues werent related to the damage arising 
from the leak and had occurred gradually. esure also didnt think there had been undue 
delays in dealing with the claim and repairing the damage caused by the leak.
Mrs V and Mr V then complained to this service. They were unhappy at how their claim had 
been handled, that they werent provided with trace and access cover and that they hadnt 
received alternative accommodation  which they thought had led to health issues for Mrs V 
from the difficult conditions at the property. They were also unhappy that damage to the 
bedroom decoration wasnt being covered, nor the replacement of utility room worktops.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding esure didnt need to take any action. 
On trace and access, she concluded that the policy with A didnt include this cover, so A 
hadnt made an error advising them they didnt have cover. And as Mrs V and Mr V were 
able to use their separate home emergency policy to secure a plumber to find the leak and 
fix it, this meant that there wasnt a claim against A. On alternative accommodation, she 
concluded that esure had tried to secure suitable accommodation, but circumstances meant 
they werent able to find something. But esure had offered arrangements for cooking 
facilities to be provided. On the issue of delays in dealing with the claim, the investigator 
noted the impact of restrictions from the Covid pandemic but also concluded that there 
wasnt a period when the claim wasnt being progressed.
Mrs V and Mr V disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They thought As refusal to carry out trace and access work caused 
delay and therefore made the damage worse. They were also unhappy at having to live in 
the property in damp and mouldy conditions, which affected Mrs Vs health, as well as the 
time taken to assess the claim and repair the damage. They also thought that the issue with 
the bedroom happened during the drying out process and theyd provided video evidence to 
support their view, so should be covered by their claim. They also thought esure should bear 
the cost of replacing the worktops in their utility room.
In my findings I reached similar conclusions to those reached by our investigator on the main 
elements of the complaint. However, on the issue of alternative accommodation, while a pod 
(or alternative accommodation) wasnt ultimately provided, I thought Mrs V and Mr V did 
suffer stress and inconvenience from the situation, and the time that they were in that 
situation. I also took account of the impact on Mrs V and Mr V, in particular Mrs Vs health. 
While I thought a degree of inconvenience was to be expected, I concluded esure needed to 
do more to recognise the stress and inconvenience to Mrs V and Mr V. Taking all the 
circumstances into account I thought £300 for distress and inconvenience would be fair.
 
Because I thought esure needed to do more to put things right, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further, as set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id first want to say to Mrs V and Mr V that I appreciate the damage from the leak and having 
to continue to live in the property would have been stressful. I also sympathise with the 
impact on Mrs Vs health described to us when making their complaint. Ive borne this in 
mind when deciding whether esure have acted fairly towards Mrs V and Mr V.
Coming back to the issues in Mrs V and Mr Vs complaint, there are several main elements, 
which Ill consider in turn.First, theres the issue of whether Mrs V and Mr V should have been covered (under the 
home emergency section of their policy) for trace and access work to find the source of the 
leak and to fix it. Mrs V and Mr V maintain that this should have been covered under that 
section of the policy (provided by A). A maintains that cover didnt include trace and access.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the relevant section of the policy. Under the 
heading of General exclusions, it states that:
We will not cover the following:
12) Cost of Trace and Access to locate the source of the Emergency
I think this exclusion is clear, so Ive concluded that A acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of that section of the policy. From what Mrs V and Mr V have told us, they 
had a separate home emergency policy with another company, who were able to send an 
engineer to locate and fix the source of the leak. That being the case, I cant say that Mrs V 
and Mr V have lost out from As decision (even though I think that decision was reasonable 
given the terms and conditions of the policy set out above).
The second issue concerns the provision of alternative accommodation. Mrs V and Mr V say 
they should have been provided with alternative accommodation (not just when the building 
work was due to take place) because of the extent of the damage caused by the leak, 
particularly to the kitchen and the extent of damp and mould arising from the leak.
 
esure say that the property was habitable but acknowledged that when the strip out of the 
kitchen was to take place, Mrs V and Mr V wouldnt have cooking facilities. While their 
agents tried to secure alternative accommodation for this period, they couldnt find 
something suitable. esure then offered to provide a pod that contained cooking facilities as 
an alternative (when the kitchen was to have been stripped out) but wouldnt agree to the 
cost of placing it at the rear of the property (which would have required the hire of a crane to 
lift it into the back garden, at an estimated cost of £2,500).They were prepared to place it at 
the front of the property. In the event, as I understand it, when the drying was completed it 
wasnt necessary to strip out the whole kitchen, meaning that a pod wouldnt be required.
Thinking about what happened and esures actions, I think that while conditions at the 
property were difficult, particularly in the kitchen where trace and access of the leak had left 
a significant trench, they werent uninhabitable. I think it was right for esure to recognise that 
when the kitchen was due to be stripped out, alternative accommodation would have been 
necessary and that their agents sought to arrange this. While unsuccessful, they offered an 
alternative (the pod). While Mrs V and Mr V would have preferred it to be located at the rear 
of the property, I dont think it was unreasonable for esure not to have agreed to this given 
the significant additional cost involved. 
While it appears that a pod (or alternative accommodation) wasnt ultimately required, I do 
think Mrs V and Mr V have suffered stress and inconvenience from the situation, and the 
time that they were in that position. Ive also considered the impact on them, in particular 
what theyve said about Mrs Vs health. While I think a degree of inconvenience is to be 
expected while a claim is assessed and reinstatement work carried out, I think esure needs 
to do more to recognise the stress and inconvenience to Mrs V and Mr V. Taking all the 
circumstances into account I think £300 for distress and inconvenience would be fair.
The third issue is the time taken to assess the claim and to carry out the work needed to 
repair the damage and reinstate the property. In thinking about this Ive considered the 
period from the date of the leak (October 2020) to the date of Mrs V and Mr Vs complaint to this service (following esures final response) in February 2021. Ive looked at the sequence 
of events, I can see that once the leak had been located and fixed, esure appointed V to 
carry out an initial inspection of the damage and then P to begin the process of drying the 
property (October). Because of the likely cost of the repair and reinstatement work, S were 
appointed in early November. Mrs V and Mr V elected to use their own contractor for the 
work, the indications are that they visited the property in late November. The search for 
alternative accommodation and the alternative pod option took place in December and into 
January. The drying out of the property was completed in January. There is mention at that 
point of potential delays because of the second national lockdown that came in at that point, 
but that was outside of the control of either esure or of Mrs V and Mr V.
 
Considering the extent of the damage and the need to involve different parties for different 
roles, I dont think this timeline indicates avoidable delays from esure (or their agents) and 
theres clear evidence of discussions and communication between Mrs V and Mr V and the 
various parties. In the circumstances, I dont think there are grounds to say that esure should 
take further action.
The fourth issue concerns the damage to the decoration of the bedroom that Mrs V and Mr V 
say was a consequence of [condensation from] the drying out process. esure argue that 
theres no evidence that this is the case and that the issue isnt related to the incident and 
the subsequent reinstatement work (including the drying out).
 
Ive considered the evidence available on this point. Ive noted that esures case notes refer 
to a discussion with P on this issue. P makes the point that the leak only affected the 
downstairs of the property (which is where the drying equipment was placed). Whereas the 
bedrooms were on the first floor. Also, the equipment was in place for some three months 
before the issue seemed to have emerged, and that the drying process would have reduced 
condensation. Ive thought about the points from both parties, but on balance Im persuaded 
by esures view that the issue wasnt linked to the leak or the subsequent drying process. So 
I dont think there are grounds for asking esure to take any action.
The final issue concerns the cost of replacing the worktops in the utility room of the property. 
Mrs V and Mr V say that these should be replaced as part of the reinstatement work. esure 
say the terms of the policy dont provide for replacement of undamaged matching items (in 
this case the undamaged utility room worktops). But esure have offered to contribute 50% 
towards the cost of replacing the utility room worktops. Ive considered both arguments, but I 
agree with esure. Looking at the terms and conditions of the policy, under the heading 
General exclusions which apply to this policy it states that:
We will not pay for loss, damage or any liability resulting directly or indirectly from:
Any extra cost of altering or replacing any items or parts of an item which are 
not lost or damaged or which form part of a set, suite or other article, of the 
same type, colour or design including wall or floor coverings.
I think this makes it clear that while the policy would cover the cost of replacing the kitchen 
worktops, it wouldnt extend to replacing the (undamaged) utility room worktops. While I can 
understand Mrs V and Mr V wanting the worktops to match, the policy doesnt provide for 
this. So, I think esures offer to make a 50% contribution towards the cost of the replacement 
worktops in the utility room is fair.
Having reached these conclusions on each of the main issues within Mrs V and Mr Vs 
complaint, Ive thought about what esure needs to do to put things right. On the alternative 
accommodation point, while esure sought to secure suitable accommodation (but were 
unable to do so) and offered to provide a pod for cooking facilities, the fact remains that Mrs V and Mr V had to remain in their property in circumstances that were clearly difficult. Ive 
thought carefully about the circumstances, as well as the impact on Mrs Vs health that 
theyve described. I think that £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered by Mrs V and Mr V would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mrs V and Mr Vs 
complaint in part. I intend to require esure Insurance plc to:
Pay Mrs V and Mr V £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Make a contribution of 50% towards the cost of the replacement worktops in the 
utility room.
esure responded to say that they had nothing further to add.
Mrs V and Mr V responded to make several points. Ive considered them in detail and set out 
what I see as the key aspects. 
On the trace and access issue, Mrs V and Mr V said AXA would cover the cost of trace and 
access (up to £5,000) but they told Mrs V and Mr V it was their responsibility. Also, when 
AXA sent a plumber, they couldnt find the cause of the leak, leaving Mrs V and Mr V to 
engage a plumber under the separate cover they had with another insurer. This meant delay 
and more damage than needed.
On alternative accommodation, Mrs V and Mr V restated their unhappiness that alternative 
accommodation wasnt provided, and that their request for a pod to be placed at the rear of 
the property was rejected on the grounds of cost (even though the policy provided cover of 
up to £75,000 for alternative accommodation). 
On the time taken to assess the claim and carry out repairs, Mrs V and Mr V said there were 
delays in the process, starting with the trace and access, then the need to appoint S to take 
on the claim, and the time taken looking for (but not securing) alternative accommodation.
On the damage to the decoration in the bedroom, Mrs V and Mr V said this didnt happen 
until halfway through the process of drying the property and affected two bedrooms. Also 
that they had been told (by a representative of the firm that installed the drying equipment) 
that the process of drying would drive moisture (from the affected parts of the property) into 
the air, leading to condensation forming (on the ceilings and walls of upper floors). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether esure have acted fairly towards Mrs V and Mr V.
Ive considered each of Mrs V and Mr Vs substantive points in turn. On trace and access, 
while Mrs V and Mr V had to engage a plumber under their separate policy, I considered this 
when I noted that in doing so they hadnt lost out financially. I accept it may have been the 
process took longer, as Mrs V and Mr V have said, but Id expect the damage (including any 
that the delay may have caused) to be made good in the reinstatement work subsequently 
carried out. So, again I dont think Mrs V and Mr V would have lost out financially.
 On alternative accommodation, I recognise Mrs V and Mr Vs views and it was unfortunate 
that the efforts to secure alternative accommodation were unsuccessful. While the policy 
does provide for up to £75,000 for alternative accommodation, I dont think this means esure 
arent able to make decisions to mitigate the costs involved (particularly the cost of placing a 
pod at the rear of the property). But I recognise the inconvenience of having to remain in the 
property in the conditions that Mrs V and Mr V described, including the impact on Mrs Vs 
health. I thought £300 compensation for this factor was fair, and I havent changed my mind 
on this point.
On the time taken to assess the claim and the reinstatement work, I considered this and set 
out the sequence of events and the involvement of different parties in my provisional 
decision. I concluded that the extent of the damage (and the need to involve different parties 
for different roles) didnt indicates avoidable delays from esure (or their agents). Also that 
there was clear evidence of discussions and communication between Mrs V and Mr V and 
the various parties. While I can understand Mrs V and Mr Vs perspective, I havent changed 
my mind on this point.
 
On the point about the damage to the bedrooms, Ive considered carefully what Mrs V and 
Mr V have said, particularly the explanation they say they were given about the effect of the 
drying equipment and condensation. It seems that theres differing views on that impact the 
drying process would have had on the property, including the bedrooms on the first floor. 
While Im not doubting what Mrs V and Mr V said they were told, Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to conclude that the damage in the bedrooms was caused by the 
drying process. So I havent changed my view on this point.
Mrs V and Mr V didnt comment on the other substantive issue in their complaint 
(replacement of the utility room worktops). So, my conclusion on that point remains the same 
as that in my provisional decision.
Taking all these points into account, I havent changed my mind about the findings and 
conclusions in my provisional decision, so my final decision remains the same, for the 
reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs V and Mr Vs complaint in 
part. I require esure Insurance plc to:
Pay Mrs V and Mr V £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Make a contribution of 50% towards the cost of the replacement worktops in the 
utility room.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman