DRN-3127412
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) reported incorrect 
information about his account to the Credit Reference Agencies.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account which was defaulted by the lender in January 2020. The 
account was purchased by Cabot in July 2020. Mr M paid off the outstanding balance in full 
in September 2020. But he says that Cabot subsequently reported the account to the Credit 
Reference Agencies as being in default with an outstanding balance of £1.
Mr M complained. Cabot said that, when it took over ownership of the account, it also took 
over responsibility for reporting the account to the Credit Reference Agencies. It said it 
reports to the Credit Reference Agencies once a month, so if an account is settled after a 
report has been sent, it will be included in the following months report. The Credit Reference 
Agencies then have to update their records. It said this means it can take four to six weeks 
for entries to show on a customers credit file. 
Cabot said it began reporting Mr Ms account in October 2020. By that time, the account 
balance had already been paid off by Mr M. Cabot said that the Credit Reference Agencies 
dont allow it to start reporting with a zero balance. So, it reported Mr Ms account as having 
an outstanding balance of £1, which it updated the following month to show that the debt had 
been satisfied. It said that, when it made its November report to the Credit Reference 
Agencies, it reported Mr Ms account as having been settled in full on 24 September 2020, 
so that the correct date of satisfaction could be recorded on his credit file.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Cabots response. He said there were two defaults showing on his 
credit file and that his credit score had been adversely affected. And he wasnt happy that 
Cabot had reported an outstanding balance after his account had been settled. He asked 
this service to look at the complaint. 
Our Investigator didnt think Cabot had acted unfairly here. But Mr M didnt agree and asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen a copy of Mr Ms credit report. But Ive seen screenshots of Cabots system 
which show how it is reporting Mr Ms account to the Credit Reference Agencies. These 
confirm that Cabot is reporting the account default date as 9 January 2020 and the date of 
satisfaction as 24 September 2020. They also confirm the amount of the original default 
balance, which is the amount Mr M paid off in September 2020. As these are the correct 
dates and amount, Im satisfied that Cabot is reporting the account details correctly.
But Mr M is unhappy that Cabot initially reported the account as having an outstanding 
balance of £1, even though hed already paid it off by then. Cabot doesnt dispute this. Its 
explained why it did this - it has to report the account to the Credit Reference Agencies, but it 
cant report a zero balance. So it reported a nominal balance and corrected this on the next 
report, ensuring that the date of satisfaction of the original debt was recorded correctly. I 
think this is a reasonable explanation of why Cabot took these steps and I think it was 
designed to have minimal impact on Mr M, with the correct information being reported as 
quickly as possible. 
Payment of the debt didnt mean that the default would disappear from Mr Ms credit file  
defaults remain on a credit file for six years. Im not aware of any detriment Mr M suffered as 
a result of the initial reporting by Cabot. And, as I said above, Im satisfied that Cabot is 
currently reporting the account correctly. So Im not going to ask Cabot to do anything about 
this.
But Mr M says there are two defaults on his credit file. Hes provided an extract from a report 
he obtained online from a business which Ill call C. This shows two defaults. One is in the 
name of the original credit card lender, with the default date of 9 January 2020. This appears 
to relate to the account purchased by Cabot. I havent seen anything to explain why its 
showing on this report as though its still in the name of the original lender. But Im not 
looking at the actions of the lender here, only those of Cabot. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that this reporting is a result of any mistake by Cabot. 
The other default shown on the extract provided by Mr M is in the name Cabot Financial and 
is dated 9 December 2019. I asked Cabot about this. It said it doesnt have a record of this 
default and confirmed that its reporting Mr Ms account with the default date of 9 January 
2020. It said it doesnt know what the other entry relates to but confirmed that it doesnt 
report to C. Im satisfied with this explanation. I havent seen any evidence to indicate that 
Cabot is reporting a default dated 9 December 2019. So I cant conclude that its Cabots 
fault that this information is showing on the report produced by C.
Its possible that a third party has made a mistake and hasnt correctly recorded or updated 
information about the account. Cabot has suggested that Mr M could contact C to query the 
source of its information and I think thats a reasonable suggestion. Im not looking at the 
actions of C, the original lender or any of the Credit Reference Agencies here. Im only 
looking at the actions of Cabot. And I havent seen any evidence that Cabot is reporting the 
default incorrectly.
I know Mr M feels strongly about his complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But, for the 
reasons above, I dont think Cabot has acted unfairly here. So Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman