DRN-3411206
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to not pay her claim. 
What happened
Miss C had income protection insurance through her employer with Unum. In January 2018, 
she became too unwell to work owing to sinus pain. She was diagnosed with sinusitis and 
was prescribed medication to treat her symptoms. Miss C responded well to this and the 
infection was cleared by the following month in February. Although Miss C continued to 
experience facial pain and intermittent symptoms and so she remained off work. Miss C was 
also referred to specialists and had several appointments over the coming months. 
Miss C said she was too unwell to work throughout the months that followed and that Unum 
shouldve paid the claim she made at the end of the deferred period in July 2018. Miss C 
returned to work in January 2020, and so would like Unum to pay her claim until then.
Unum said it declined Miss Cs claim because there wasnt enough medical evidence to 
show that shed been incapacitated for the whole of the deferred period. It said although 
Miss C had suffered with sinusitis, this was intermittent and suggested she couldve returned 
to work once those bouts had cleared. Unum also said the desktop review it completed 
supported its position that Miss C was fit and well enough to be at work. 
Our investigator agreed with Unums declination and said despite Miss Cs treatments, there 
were large periods where it appeared she was no longer suffering with symptoms severe 
enough to preclude her from work. He referred to Miss Cs medical records and highlighted 
that she returned to work in January 2019 despite saying her symptoms were still present. 
He explained that this further supported that she was well enough to return to work.
Miss C disagreed. She explained that whilst she was off work, she remained in close contact 
with occupational health and that the advisers told her that she wasnt fit to return. She said 
it was on that basis she remained at home. Miss C also said that she was encouraged to 
continue with her health routine, which included long distance running. Miss C said that had 
shed known Unum wouldnt have accepted her claim, shed have made other arrangements. 
So, its now for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. For Miss C to bring a successful claim, she needed to 
satisfy the policy criteria, in particular, she needed to remain incapacitated for the whole of 
the 26-week deferred period. Ive not seen enough medical evidence to show that this was 
the case and so Im satisfied Unum declined her claim fairly. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties
of the insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation
The medical evidence Ive seen shows that Miss C was diagnosed with chronic sinusitis in 
January 2018, but after visiting the ENT specialist, her symptoms had subsided and there 
was no further infection following medical treatment. Miss C was advised to continue using 
the nasal spray to help alleviate any further reoccurrence. Based on the evidence Ive seen 
Im persuaded that Miss C could have returned to work at this point. Her deferred period was 
26 weeks and so Im satisfied that she didnt meet this term as she was incapacitated for 
significantly less time. 
Later, in April 2018, Miss C was referred back to the ENT specialist because she was still 
suffering with facial pain and headaches. The occupational health therapist suggested this 
would be the best thing to do. I should highlight that the OCH therapist did this following the 
discussion it had with Miss C where she shared that shed been suffering with symptoms. Its 
important to recognise that Miss Cs symptoms were self-reported. 
Miss C explained in her submissions that its difficult to identify the problems shes suffered 
because theyre not outwardly obvious and I take that onboard here. And so, I think its 
unsurprising that she was deemed unfit for work, given the nature of her self-reported 
symptoms and how she described the barriers this caused for her returning to work. Miss C 
works on an airline and she believed factors such as the altitude and long-haul flights may 
make her symptoms worse. 
The ENT specialist arranged a scan, however, this was largely unremarkable. Thats to say 
there was no obvious cause identifiable that would successfully explain the symptoms Miss 
C was suffering. I note she had surgery in August 2018 to correct a deviated septum but 
Miss C said this did little to alleviate her symptoms. I note Miss C had a further infection 
following the surgery, but this too was successfully treated with medication. 
Unum completed a desktop investigation following Miss Cs appeal to its claim declination. It 
found evidence of Miss C taking part in long-distance running and so maintained its decision 
to decline her claim. It said this was further evidence that she was well enough to return to 
work. Having carefully considered Unums position, I think its a fair point to make given the 
extent of Miss Cs self-reported symptoms and that she was suffering from chronic facial and 
sinus pain. I think Unum made reasonable connections here by arguing that her symptoms 
may not have been as severe as shed previously explained. 
Ive considered Miss Cs medical records and I think they also support Unums position 
because there doesnt appear to be as much engagement with her GP, other than to request 
extensions to her FIT notes. In April 2018, Miss C called her doctor to ask for a six week 
extension but didnt give an explanation about why it was needed. The GP records simply 
say that this was needed because her OCH therapist recommended it. I dont think thats a 
persuasive enough argument, given what Ive previously explained about Miss Cs self-
reporting to the therapist, rather than any physical examination having taken place. 
I also noted Miss C said her day to day activities were largely unaffected and she was able 
to continue her daily activities without any real change. She explained that she suffered with 
extreme fatigue but given Unums comments about her health routine, I dont think its 
position on this is unfair. Unum explained that Miss C remained extremely physically active 
during the time she was off work and concluded that she wasnt incapacitated to such an 
extent that she was unable to work. I think this is a reasonable position to reach because the 
evidence shows that Miss C wasnt incapacitated throughout the whole of the deferred period. 
Miss C returned to work in January 2019. I note that Miss C was able to maintain the 
substantial duties of her role when shed returned despite saying thered been no real 
improvement in her health. Ive carefully considered her comments here because I think it 
further supports Unums argument that she wasnt fully incapacitated throughout the 
deferred period. I say that because Miss C was able to return to work, despite her continued 
symptoms, and meet the material and substantial duties of her role.  
I think its important to draw out that there were times when Miss C was too unwell to work, 
but Im not persuaded this lasted for 26 weeks or more because theres not enough 
persuasive medical evidence to support that. And so, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold this complaint because the policy terms have not been met. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman