DRN-3627657
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont refund a payment he made after
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr H fell victim to a scam. As part of that scam, Mr H made a payment of
£16,000 while in a Barclays branch.
What Mr H says happened:
He was contacted by someone claiming to work for a merchant in London who was
trading in stocks and shares (Ill refer to this individual as C).
C recommended buying shares in a US company (Ill refer to the company as U).
Mr H wasnt able to buy the shares directly in U and had to go through a broker, so
made his payment via C.
He was given a login for a website which included a weekly schedule and a chart that
detailed his investment. The website also provided projections going forward six
months and Mr H says it looked professional.
Mr Hs initial investment was £16,000 which C used to buy 335 packs of U shares.
Mr H says he was told that his £16,000 would make £18,178 in 20 days.
Mr H was encouraged to buy more packs with the profit he made from his initial
investment  which he did. He says that by February 2018 he had bought a total of
555 packs, which were worth in excess of £30,000.
Mr H became aware hed been the victim of a scam in August 2019, when he didnt receive
a payment for the returns made on the packs. So, he raised a fraud claim with Barclays.
Barclays looked into Mr Hs fraud claim and declined to refund him. They said no funds were
recoverable from the beneficiarys account. And, due to the payment being made in 2017, it
isnt covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which only came
into effect in 2019.
Since Mr H brought his complaint to our service, Barclays have offered to refund 50% of the
£16,000 payment, saying they missed an opportunity to educate Mr H about scams. But
Barclays declined to refund the remaining 50% saying Mr H shouldve carried out some
research, especially as the return offered of 140% for 140 days was unrealistic. Mr H was
presented with the offer but turned it down, saying he felt £12,000 was a more appropriate
offer  but Barclays declined to increase their offer.
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it, recommending that Barclays
refund 100% of the £16,000 payment. The investigator felt Barclays shouldve identified that
Mr H may be the victim of a scam and shouldve discussed the purpose of the payment.
They felt a discussion was likely to have resulted in Barclays suggesting Mr H get
independent financial advice before making the payment  which wouldve resulted in Mr H
not making the payment. The investigator considered whether Mr H couldve mitigated his 
loss but felt the sophistication of the scam outweighed any concerns raised about the high 
rate of return, therefore they didnt recommend a deduction for contributory negligence.
Mr H agreed with the investigators recommendation, however Barclays disagreed.
Barclays say:
The rate of return was too good to be true and Mr H shouldve been suspicious and
done some research before making the payment.
The payment wasnt out of character compared to Mr Hs previous account activity 
therefore they wouldnt have had fraud concerns about his payment.
The payment was made prior to the introduction of the CRM Code.
By the time Mr H raised a fraud claim with them, the funds had already left the
beneficiarys account.
As Barclays disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional findings
Having reviewed the case, I realised I was going to reach a different outcome than the 
investigator and contacted Mr H to let him know. I told Mr H that I considered the offer 
already made by Barclays to be fair, however Mr H disagreed and said he felt the £12,000 
hed previously requested was more appropriate. As Mr H didnt agree with my initial 
recommendation, I formalised my findings in a provisional decision which was issued on 20 
July 2022. In that decision, I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or 
evidence they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). However, the CRM Code was only introduced in
May 2019 and cannot be applied retrospectively to payments made before this date. As
Mr H made his payment in 2017, the CRM Code cant be applied to his payment. This
means I dont think Barclays are responsible for reimbursing Mr H because of any obligation
under the CRM Code.
However, Ive considered whether Barclays couldve or shouldve prevented the payment
from being made.
Should Barclays have prevented the payment from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Mr H made one payment of £16,000, which was done in branch. Prior to making this
payment, the largest payment Mr H had made in the few months before was a payment of
just under £2,000. Having reviewed Mr Hs regular account activity, Im satisfied that thispayment was sufficiently unusual and out of character that Barclays shouldve been
concerned that Mr H may have been at risk of financial harm. On that basis, I wouldve
expected the branch staff to have discussed the payment with Mr H before processing it.
That discussion shouldve involved questions about the purpose of the payment, details of
the investment Mr H was making including the return, how Mr H found the investment, what
research he had done on the company he was investing in and what other checks hed done
to satisfy himself that it was a genuine investment.
Its difficult to know exactly what the discussion would have uncovered or what action Mr H
wouldve taken as a result of the discussion. In a case like this where the evidence is
incomplete or contradictory, I only need to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities 
in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available
evidence.
In this case, the return that Mr H was being offered was 140% in 140 days. This seems
unrealistic and too good to be true. However, I think that if Barclays had suggested that Mr H
do more research or checks before making the investment that its unlikely he wouldnt have
proceeded with the payment.
I say this because there was no negative information available about U online at the time
Mr H was making the payment. The first warnings were posted in December 2017 by US
authorities, with a further warning issued by the Guam Attorney General in January 2018. I
havent been able to locate any scam warnings or concerning information prior to December
2017, which means further research by Mr H in November 2017 is unlikely to have
suggested that the company was trading inappropriately  or uncovered the later findings
that it was a Ponzi scheme. Barclays wouldve been likely to suggest that Mr H check the
Financial Conduct Authoritys website (FCA) for any warnings on U, and there were no
postings about U at that time.
Also, Mr H wasnt dealing directly with U, he was dealing via a broker  C. From what Ive
seen there werent any warnings active at the time about C either. Also, C banked with
Barclays and Barclays say there were no indications or concerns of fraud in relation to Cs
account at the time Mr H made his payment. So, if they had checked Cs account, they
wouldnt have seen anything that wouldve caused them concern. And, its likely that they
wouldve been reassured that Mr H was dealing with an independent party with regards to
his investment in U. Mr H has told us that there were undisclosed commissions made from U
to C in relation to his investment, however I cant see that Barclays had any knowledge of
this.
I do have concerns about the high rate of return, but Im not satisfied that I can fairly say that
Barclays shouldve refused to make the payment based purely on that considering the lack
of any other concerning information available online or through the relevant authorities like
the FCA.
Also, while Mr H feels that Barclays are entirely negligent in the handling of this payment,
there is some responsibility on Mr H to do his own checks to ensure an investment
opportunity is legitimate. Mr H has told us that he did minimal research and didnt get any
brochures or literature prior to investing. But says the website that he was shown was
professional. However, with the promise of such a high return, I wouldve expected a higher
level of checks to have been done by Mr H in order to mitigate his loss.
Mr H raised a point about being contacted by Barclays regarding payments of as little as
£100 recently, saying he received a text asking if the payment was genuine. However, the
industry guidelines and expectations have changed over recent years, and I need toconsider his complaint in line with the industry guidelines, regulations and standards at the
time he made the payment in 2017.
In summary
I think Barclays shouldve done more when Mr H made this payment to ensure he wasnt at
risk of financial harm by asking him questions about the payment. However, if they had, I
think its unlikely that the scam wouldve been uncovered and therefore think its more likely
than not the payment wouldve been made regardless. Also, Im not satisfied that Mr H took
reasonable steps to mitigate his losses, by doing his own independent checks on the
investment opportunity based on the high rate of return. On that basis, I think the 50% refund
already offered by Barclays is fair. Barclays have confirmed that their offer includes paying
8% simple interest on the refund, which is in line with what we would recommend.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Refund Mr H 50% of the payment  being £8,000.
Pay interest on that refund at 8% simple interest, from the date the payment was
made until the date of settlement*.
*If Barclays considers that its required by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it
should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK
Plc and ask them to compensate Mr H as set out above.
Responses to the provisional decision
I asked both parties to respond to the provisional decision by 1 August 2022. We havent 
received a response from Barclays. Mr H responded to say he had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been given any new information or evidence, I see no reason to depart from the 
outcome I reached in my provisional decision. On that basis, Barclays should refund Mr H  
50% of his loss and pay interest on that refund.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Refund Mr H 50% of the payment  being £8,000.
Pay interest on that refund at 8% simple interest, from the date the payment was
made until the date of settlement*.
*If Barclays considers that its required by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, itshould tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc and require 
them to compensate Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman