DRN-3259908
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the response of Omni Capital Retail Finance (OCRF), following a claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA).
What happened
In or around July 2018 Mr T was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call S to 
discuss purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at his home. After being visited by a 
representative from S at his home, Mr T decided to purchase the solar panel system with a 
5-year fixed sum loan agreement from OCRF.  The solar panels were subsequently installed 
at his home. Mr T says that S told him that the benefits he would receive from the panels 
would be sufficient to cover the cost of his panels in 5 to 7 years, resulting in his system 
being self-funded. Mr T has said that this has not turned out to be the case.
In November 2019, Mr T, via his representative, made a claim under section 75 of the CCA 
to OCRF. Mr T said what S had told him about the about his solar panels being self-funding 
was a misrepresentation, and it was this misrepresentation that had induced him to enter the 
contract. When making the section 75 claim Mr T provided a number of documents including 
his loan agreement, his contract with S, a contract variation form, an illustration of potential 
returns, his MCS certificate. The representative also said that Mr Ts loan had been 
unaffordable and no cooling off period given.   
In its response letter OCRF said as it was not present at the sale, it could not comment on 
what was said, but that from the evidence it had, Mr Ts panels were performing in line with 
the estimates. The information given by Mr T satisfied their underwriting criteria for the loan, 
and there was no record that Mr T tried to cancel within the cooling off period. They also 
confirmed no commission was paid in respect of the loan. 
As Mr T was unhappy with this response, he made a complaint, and OCRF had 8 weeks to      
investigate.    
As the matter wasnt resolved in that 8 weeks, one of our investigators looked into it, she 
concluded that Mr Ts testimony was convincing, and that the benefits of the panels had 
been mis-represented to him and caused him to enter into a contract he otherwise would not 
have done.  She recommended that OCRF carry out a calculation to establish what the likely 
benefits would be for the panels over the 5-year loan period and reduce Mr Ts loan 
accordingly.  She also recommended OCRF pay Mr T £100 for trouble and upset.  She 
considered this to be a fair outcome to the complaint made.
OCRF did not agree with the investigators assessment. In summary it argued:
Mr T had only contacted OCRF once, in August 2020 to discuss settling his loan.  If 
he was unhappy OCRF would have expected this to have been mentioned
Its not fair to accept Mr Ts statement about what was told at the point of sale without 
some form of substantiation.
It is wrong to reach the conclusion that the only reason to make a purchase is to 
reduce outgoings, and its not possible to establish Mr Ts motivation to buy the 
panels. 
The document estimated year one benefits makes it clear that benefits are less 
than the cost of the finance. 
There is no requirement for the loan agreement to include details of the cost and 
benefits of the solar panels. 
They disagree that Mr T would not have realized from the paperwork that the panels 
were not self-funding, and Mr T is expected to make his own decision about the 
purchase, and how best to pay.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr T paid for the solar panel system with a fixed sum loan, OCRF agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr T can claim against OCRF  the creditor  for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract in the same way he could have claimed against 
S, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr T and 
S, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of OCRF.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr T says he was contacted by S and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the solar 
panel system would be entirely self-financing. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr T 
had previously shown an interest in solar panels before he was contacted by S.
Ive considered Mr. Ts testimony about what happened when he spoke to S. I find his 
testimony to be credible and persuasive.   Its also hard to see why Mr T would agree to the installation of the solar panel system, paid 
for by a loan, which would increase his monthly outgoings.  OCRF have said its not 
reasonable to conclude that a desire to reduce outgoings is the only reason to make a 
purchase. Whilst that may be true in many cases where the item purchased itself has a 
value to the purchaser, I think with solar panels the situation is different.  The benefit of 
panels is cheaper energy, created by personal consumption and the benefits of the Feed In 
Tariff.  Im not persuaded that Mr T had any incentive to purchase the panels for any reason 
other than the potential savings.  So, it follows that I do think its more likely that not that Mr 
Ts motivation for buying the panels, was to reduce his outgoings.  
I also note that when Mr T contacted OCRF to talk about settling his loan he had in fact 
already made a claim under Section 75.  So, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr T to 
have raised concerns at any other point, or to doubt his testimony for this reason.  
Based on this, I think it is unlikely that he wouldve agreed to the solar panel system and a 
loan with OCRF, unless hed been led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no 
additional cost to him. Therefore, I accept Mr Ts version of events.
The documentation
Ive gone on to consider the paperwork that has been provided to see if there was anything 
contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldnt be self-funding. 
Firstly, Ill consider the loan agreement. This sets out the amount being borrowed, the 
interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Im satisfied that this is clear and there is no reference to the solar 
panel system being self-funding. 
To be clear, like the investigator, I accept OCRFs assertion that there is no requirement for 
the loan agreement to set out the details of the solar panels.  What I am considering is 
whether or not all the documentation Mr T had access to at the time would have made it 
evident that, despite what he says he was told, the solar panels would not be self-funding.  
In order for Mr T to make an informed decision about the benefits of the panels in relation to 
the overall costs to him he needed to be able to compare the cost of the solar panel system 
to any benefit he may have received or have been promised.
Ill now turn to the contract between Mr T and S. It shows the cost of the system with VAT, 
without VAT, the amount of the deposit, and how much is outstanding with the deposit. 
Crucially, in my opinion, it doesnt include the cost of the finance. Therefore, the £9,999.00 
cost isnt the actual cost of the system to Mr T The true cost to him, including interest was 
£12,567.26. In my view a significant difference.  
Mr T has two further documents. One with the panels arranged in portrait and landscape 
position dated 9 July 2018, and one with the panels in portrait position only dated 20 July 
2018. The first estimates a SAP production of 2429.757 kWh, and the second an estimated 
production of 3357.45 kWh. And 
A further page entitled estimated year one returns uses the 3357.45 kWh estimation to 
show the estimated first year benefit. 
 
There is no reference to the true cost of the system, including interest, and his monthly loan 
repayments so, similarly to the loan agreement, I dont think it would have allowed Mr T to 
compare the true cost of the system to any benefit he may receive, or have been promised.
Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that S told Mr T that the solar panel system would 
be self-funding and come at no additional cost to him. So, Ive considered whether it was 
reasonable for him to have relied on that misrepresentation when entering into the contract 
taking account of the documents that were given to him. Ive also considered whether any of 
the documents given to him were sufficiently clear to counter the misrepresentation made by 
S.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the various documents provided to Mr T 
over the period of time the contract was agreed were presented in such a way that it was not 
easy for him to compare his likely benefits with his outgoings  and it would have  been 
difficult for him to make an informed decision without relying on what he was told by the 
representative of S. So, Im persuaded it is reasonable for Mr T to have relied on what he 
was told by the representative when he agreed to enter into the contract.
Has Mr T suffered a loss?
My view is that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to Mr T, 
the monthly savings and benefits he would achieve should have been sufficient to meet his 
monthly loan repayments.
It is clear from the information that has been provided by Mr T and his representative that 
this has not been the case and there was a shortfall between his monthly loan repayments 
and any benefits he has received from the solar panel system. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I find it likely that Mr T has suffered a loss as a result 
of the misrepresentation made by S. And as OCRF has equal liability for the 
misrepresentation made by S, I find that it is responsible for Mr Ts loss.
Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr Ts complaint is that it isnt so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I dont think it 
would be fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home.
Rather, I think , considering Mr Ts comments and his individual circumstances the fair  
outcome here is to put him in a position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 
5 year loan term, meaning that hes not disadvantaged by the misrepresentation. 
So I think OCRF should calculate the benefits Mr T has benefitted from, and the likely 
benefits he will receive from the panels over the term of the loan and restructure his loan to 
ensure he pays no more than that. 
If by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Ts monthly repayments would reduce, meaning that 
he has paid more each month than he should have, he will have an overpayment balance. 
And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I would expect the 
business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr T have the following options 
as to how he would like the overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce any outstanding balance of the 
restructured loan and he continues to make his current monthly payment 
resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the 
restructured loan and he pays a new monthly payment until the end of the 
loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr T and he continues to make his 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr T and he pays a new monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
If Mr T accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information at the time that Mr T first complained to 
OCRF that means his complaint should have been upheld. The fact that this didnt happen 
undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award of £100 for 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of 
it, I require Omni Capital Retail Finance Ltd to:
allow Mr T to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential savings and income to Mr T from the panels over the 5-
year term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where 
possible, it should use Mr Ts electricity bills and FIT statements to do this.
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement,
allow Mr T to decide how hed like any overpayments to be used, using the 
four options described above; and,
pay Mr T £100 for the trouble and upset caused.*If Omni Capital Retail Finance Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman