DRN-3691882
The complaint
Mr B has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd trading as James Hay Partnership.  Mr B invested in an arrangement HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) has since challenged. Mr Bs complaint is that James Hay should not have 
allowed that investment in its SIPPs.
What happened
In 2014 Mr B applied for a SIPP with James Hay.  Mr B also bought shares in a company 
which was part of an investment arrangement I will refer to as the Scheme.  He bought 
140,000 shares at £1 each.  This was funded largely by a limited recourse loan which was 
part of the Scheme.    
Shortly after the SIPP was opened Mr B arranged for James Hay to the shares from him 
using the funds in his SIPP.  James Hay paid £1 per share meaning £140,000 was paid out 
of the SIPP to Mr B.
This arrangement was later challenged by HMRC as an unauthorised payment out of the 
SIPP and Mr B has ended up paying an unauthorised payment surcharge and interest to 
HMRC.
Mr B complained to James Hay.  It did not uphold his complaint.  Mr B then referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint.  He thought the complaint should not 
be upheld.  He made several points including:
Mr B had a financial adviser involved in this matter.  Mr B made a claim to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme in relation to that adviser.  Mr B had said 
the claim was not successful.
Mr Bs own professional qualifications and experience meant he would have had a 
good understanding of pension legislation and the circumstances that would make a 
payment unauthorised and the tax implications of such payments.  
Mr B ought to have known the shares were not worth the subscription price as he 
was buying mainly with a limited recourse loan.  
Mr B sold the shares to his SIPP for £1 each releasing his pension funds to him and 
therefore withdrawing more than 25% of his fund without incurring an immediate tax 
liability.
Mr B was sufficiently knowledgeable and experienced that he would have invested in 
this way even if James Hay had not accepted his application.
In all the circumstances it would not be fair to ask James Hay to pay compensation to 
Mr B.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company.  It does not agree with the 
investigator.  It has made several points including:
The Financial Ombudsman Service is, in other cases, saying James Hay failed to 
carry out sufficient checks on the Scheme.  And saying James Hay should 
compensate other consumers.
The investigator has said Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld because of the 
particular circumstances of Mr Bs case but none of those circumstances should 
make a difference.
As far as James Hay was concerned Mr B was just another client.  He was not 
categorised as a professional client, and he should not be judged as one.
If James Hay had carried out adequate due diligence it would not have accepted any 
applications involving the Scheme.  This means James Hay would not have accepted 
Mr Bs application. 
James Hay is a large and reputable SIPP operator.  It held itself out as having carried 
out due diligence on, and as being expert on, the Scheme.  Mr B was entitled to trust 
it.
It is wrong to suggest that Mr B understood that the Scheme involved an 
unauthorised payment.  He would not have invested if he had known that.  
It is also wrong to say Mr B would have gone ahead with the Scheme investment, or 
something similar, if James Hay had refused his application.  He only made the 
investment because James Hay approved the Scheme.  
James Hay has said its understanding is that Mr Bs claim to the FSCS has been put on hold 
pending the outcome of this complaint and that Mr B should re-open his FSCS claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions and I have considered all 
that has been said and provided. I will not however respond to all the points that have been 
made, rather I will concentrate on what I consider to be the central issue in this case.
The Scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement.  It involved buying shares largely 
with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to the SIPP so that funds were 
paid out of the pension scheme to the investor.  This is, as I have said, an unusual 
arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it.  It said the payment was 
an unauthorised payment and imposed a surcharge and interest.
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme.  Sometimes people 
invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme.  And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has 
been more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.
If an investor chooses to invest in a scheme understanding and accepting the risk HMRC 
might challenge their scheme and might impose tax consequences upon them, is it fair and reasonable for such an investor to complain later if HMRC does challenge and does impose 
those consequences?  That is, in effect, the issue here because, like the investigator, I 
consider that Mr B, because of his own professional expertise, will have realised the Scheme 
was unusual and was at risk of challenge from HMRC.  
Mr B will have done a number of things when he was weighing up those risks.  And that will 
have, or should have, included his own assessment (made in conjunction with his financial 
advisers if they were advising him on the matter and not just arranging it on his instructions) 
of the Scheme as a whole  not just the share price  set against his professional 
understanding of taxation matters.  I accept that he may also have taken into account the 
fact that James Hay was prepared to allow members of its SIPPs to invest in the Scheme (or 
previous versions of it).  But does that mean that the risk Mr B knew, or should have known, 
he was taking should fairly and reasonably transfer to James Hay?  In my view it does not. 
James Hay was not Mr Bs adviser.  It did not advise him that taking those risks was suitable 
for him. Mr B made that decision for himself, or in conjunction with his advisers.  But in my 
view, in determining his complaint against James Hay only, that was a decision Mr B was 
qualified and experienced to reasonably make for himself (either by himself or in conjunction 
with his financial advisers), and it is fair and reasonable that he bears the consequences of 
that decision.  
In my view, in the unusual circumstances of Mr Bs case, even if James Hay did not carry out 
adequate due diligence on the Scheme (and I make no finding on that point), it is not fair and 
reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr B.  And so, in the particular 
circumstances of his case, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against James Hay Administration Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman