DRN-2451404
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr R took out a mortgage with PPI in 1992. 
The policy couldve protected his mortgage monthly repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr R mainly said that he declined PPI but was specifically told by Santanders mortgage 
advisor that not taking out the PPI wasnt an option. Mr R said he was told he had to take out 
PPI as part of the mortgage package he wanted. Mr R is very clear that PPI wasnt 
something he wanted or needed and said it wasnt ever explained to him that having PPI 
was optional  - if so, he wouldnt have taken it out.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
After all this time, it would be unreasonable to expect Mr R to be able to recall precisely what 
was said when the mortgage was arranged and the policy was taken out. And where theres 
only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at everything Ive been 
told and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr R is sure about what hes told us. But in order to uphold his 
complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr R wasnt given a fair choice about PPI or that 
it was added to the mortgage account without his consent. And I cant fairly say this based 
on the limited information Ive got. 
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr R. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr R or Santander to have kept this. A financial 
business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. The fact that Santander cant now 
produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
The only paperwork thats still available is the mortgage quotation that Mr R has been able to 
provide. This mentions: Optional Monthly Paymentcare premium.. (Paymentcare is what 
Santander called its PPI). 
So, I dont think that theres anything written on that form which wouldve reasonably caused 
Mr R to think that the mortgage was only available if he also took out PPI. 
Mr R has explained that he relied on the wording in this quotation when he challenged the 
mortgage advisor who said he had to have PPI   and that the mortgage advisor told him 
that there had been an error and he should not have been sent this.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr R has told us. But what Mr R says about the way 
he was sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint on the 
basis that it wasnt made clear that the policy was optional.
Looked at overall, I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to be able to say that Santander 
didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr R not to choose PPI if he didnt want to have it. 
On balance, I think that Santander did do enough to make Mr R aware that the PPI was 
optional and it was added to the mortgage when he applied to take it out.
Both Mr R and Santander told us the mortgage was arranged during a meeting and 
Santander says it wouldve recommended the PPI to Mr R. This means it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the cover was suitable for him. 
Santander has provided an example of a policy document that is likely to be similar in all 
main respects to the policy that Mr R took out.
It looks like Mr R was eligible for the policy. It offered protection in the event of 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim and it could possibly have paid out for up to 
36 months per accident or sickness claim depending on the amount of cover Mr R chose. 
I've taken into account what Mr R told us about his sick pay entitlement from his employer. 
The policy couldve paid out the monthly benefit hed selected on top of any sick pay 
received through work  and for longer than he told us he couldve relied on his employer 
paying him sick pay. This couldve been useful  particularly if he had extra costs as a result 
of illness or disability. 
And, as well as this, it couldve paid out if he lost his job unexpectedly and became 
unemployed. 
I dont know if Mr R wouldve always had savings to rely on. And the amount of savings hes 
mentioned isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful. 
Mr R also told us that he had family who couldve helped out. But relying on other people to 
help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think that the policy was suitable for Mr R. 
Its possible some of the information Mr R was given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. 
But Mr R told us that he was in secure employment and good health, so it doesnt look like 
the policy limitations and exclusions wouldve affected Mr R. 
This means I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put him off taking it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr R when he bought the policy. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that paying for it caused him any money problems. And as Mr R paid for the policy each month, he couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if he no longer wanted to 
pay for it or keep the policy running.  
Its possible there mightve been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think its 
likely that Mr R still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him useful protection in his particular situation. 
I say this because Mr Rs mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a 
substantial number of years. His home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable protection in the event of unexpected or 
unplanned events. It looked like the policy couldve been useful if hed needed to claim. So, 
I can see why Mr R mightve felt it was worthwhile taking out PPI. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr R paid on the PPI  and whether Santander 
treated him unfairly. Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Rs PPI was less than 
half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been working 
this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Rs commission was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell Mr R about the commission  so I dont think 
Santander treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr R paid for the PPI. 
Mr R mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint. But a failed claim 
doesnt mean that the policy wasnt fit for purpose when Mr R took it out  and it isnt a 
reason for me to uphold his mis-selling complaint. Theres nothing more I can usefully add to 
what our adjudicator has already said about this. So in my decision I've concentrated on 
dealing with the main points raised that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr R feels strongly that he was mis-sold PPI and he will be disappointed at 
the outcome. But I hope that setting things out as I've done will help explain how I've 
reached my final decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman