DRN-4308217
The complaint
Mrs T, through a representative, says NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs T applied for a credit card from NewDay in November 2019. It was approved with a limit 
of £250. She was then given five credit limit increases as set out below:
limit increase date new limit
1 Jul-20 £1,000
2 Jul-21 £2,750
3 Nov-21 £4,500
4 Apr-22 £6,000
5 Aug-22 £7,500
Mrs T says she was on a low income and it does not seem effective credit checks were 
undertaken before issuing credit. A credit check would have shown she was high risk. And 
the interest charged was very high and unaffordable. The credit limit increases were 
ridiculous. A family member cleared her outstanding balance and closed the account in 
November 2022. This has led to her having to borrow more and it has impacted her mental 
health.
NewDay says all its lending decisions were based on reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure the credit was affordable for Mrs T.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ts complaint in part. He said that NewDays initial lending 
decision was fair, but that from the first limit increase it ought to have carried out further 
checks and had it done it would have learnt her income was much lower than she had 
declared and so it ought to have made different lending decisions.
NewDay disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said Mrs T had told it her 
income was around £70,000 and she had managed her account exceptionally well. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the 
credit it offered to Mrs T was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the credit limits it offered Mrs T, how much she had to repay 
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew 
about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Mrs Ts application and each limit increase; if so, did it make fair 
lending decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would 
most likely have shown. I also need to think about, bearing in mind the circumstances at the 
time of each additional advance in credit, whether there was a point at which NewDay ought 
reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ts indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit.
I can see as part of NewDays checks when Mrs T applied it considered her income, 
household income, total level of borrowing held elsewhere and monthly repayment costs  
and for the limit increases it also looked at how she was managing both her Aqua account 
and her other debt elsewhere. 
I think these checks were proportionate at application given the stage in the lending 
relationship and the among of credit offered, but Im not satisfied they were for the limit 
increases. I think NewDay needed to take steps check Mrs Ts income and housing costs 
had not changed significantly as it extended her borrowings. I cannot see that because she 
was managing a limit of £250 it could be assumed she could manage a limit three times 
higher sustainably. 
Had it done so I think it would have realised there was a discrepancy between the income 
Mrs T had declared at application and her actual income. I note it says it considered the 
results of its external income verification check but it has not shared these results. From the 
available evidence I cannot understand how they would have tallied with the declared 
income it argues it relied on. Arguably, it ought to have been aware of this at application but I 
think this need not have changed its lending decision given the low limit and the results of 
the other checks at application (low overall debt of £5,119; no payday loans and no adverse 
data on Mrs Ts credit file). 
However, from the information I have seen proportionate income checks prior to the first limit 
increase would most likely have shown NewDay Mrs T was unemployed and received only 
minimal income from a carers allowance and income support of around £265 a month. From 
this, as a responsible lender, NewDay ought to have realised there was a risk that extending 
Mrs Ts credit would not be sustainably affordable for her. There is no evidence Mrs Ts 
income increased whilst she had the card  rather I can see her income support stopped and 
so it decreased. Logically it follows that I find all subsequent credit limit increase were 
unaffordable.
NewDay argues that Mrs T managed her account, and external credit, exceptionally well. But 
it does not know how she did this. Whilst I can see her external borrowing did not increase 
significantly during the life of her account, Mrs Ts testimony confirms she borrowed to make 
repayments. It seems this was informal borrowing  her representative has confirmed he 
repaid her balance in full on this card.
It follows I find NewDay was wrong to increased Mrs Ts limit beyond the £250 opening limit. 
Mrs T also said the card had a very high interest rate. But I can see from the credit 
agreement that the simple and compound interest rates would have been set out clearly. 
And Mrs T had to actively engage in the application process for her card, so I think its likely 
that she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes 
me think that NewDay treated Mrs T unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest 
charges.Putting things right
As NewDay should not have increased Mrs Ts credit limit above £250, I dont think
its fair for it to have applied interest or charges to any balances which exceeded that limit. It 
is reasonable Mrs T has repaid the capital she borrowed as she had the benefit of that 
money.
So NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £250.
As this rework will result in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs T along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to 
the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded after 29 July 2020 regarding the account 
from Mrs Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give   
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ts complaint in part. NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, must put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman