DRN-3615848
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In October 2021, Mr As account received a £250 payment. £200 of the funds were 
immediately transferred to another of Mr As accounts and the remainder of the funds were 
used on purchases. 
Monzo subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment to Mr As account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Monzo reviewed Mr As account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close 
Mr As account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr A complained that this was applied unfairly. 
Monzo looked at Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained dissatisfied he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
account in October 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr A says the fraudulent funds entered his account without his knowledge. He said he had 
only shared his account details with friends to be repaid money he was owed. But at this 
time he wasnt owed any money. He also didnt know why this payment was a problem given 
hed previously received similar payments into his account from people he didnt know and 
these werent an issue.     
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But he transferred most of the funds to another of his 
accounts almost as soon as they arrived, which is indicative of him expecting and waiting for 
these funds. Furthermore, I also would have expected Mr A to have contacted Monzo and 
queried why his account was in receipt of these funds, rather than spend them, if he 
genuinely had no idea of where they came from.  
Im afraid that the implausible nature of Mr As explanation coupled with him clearly having 
spent the funds received and therefore having benefitted from the fraud, means that I cant 
reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely 
than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr A was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A and Im very sorry to hear about the 
impact that hes said this marker is having on his mental health. I know that Mr A says he 
can provide further medical information to prove this. But while I sympathise with Mr As 
position, I still cant ignore the fact that he appears to have been complicit in fraudulent 
activity. 
So I hope that Mr A will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr A might find that hes able to open an 
account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full 
Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman