DRN-3626187
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) handled his claim for a 
refund of a payment he made using his credit card account.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr C used his Vanquis credit card account to pay a travel agent Ill call 
T £570 for return flights from London to Bangkok. He was due to fly from London to 
Bangkok on 30 October 2020 and return on 18 November 2020. However, Mr C says 
the flights were cancelled by the airline a week before he was due to fly because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr C asked T to refund the payment at the start of November 2020.
Mr C contacted Vanquis on 14 December 2020 to dispute the transaction, as he 
hadnt heard anything from T. However, he called Vanquis four days later to cancel 
the dispute because T had told him it had submitted a claim to the airline.
Mr C called Vanquis on 16 March 2021 to ask it to dispute the transaction again, as 
it had been 12 weeks since T had told him it had submitted the claim to the airline 
and he hadnt heard anything since.
Vanquis wrote to Mr C on 13 April 2021 to say it couldnt dispute the transaction 
because it had been too long since the original transaction.
Mr C called Vanquis on 22 April 2021 to complain about the outcome. Specifically, he 
said he had six years to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) and that Vanquis itself was required to provide a refund. During the call, 
a Vanquis employee explained that it couldnt dispute the transaction as it had been 
more than 120 days since Mr C was due to fly to Bangkok, and section 75 of the 
CCA didnt apply because Mr C hadnt paid the airline directly.
Mr C then referred a complaint about Vanquis to our service.
Vanquis subsequently wrote to Mr C on 28 June 2021. It said it couldnt dispute the 
transaction because it had been more than 120 days since the transaction. And, 
confusingly, it said section 75 of the CCA didnt apply because each individual item 
was less than £100.01.
One of our investigators agreed that, by March 2021, it was too late for Vanquis to 
dispute the transaction. And our investigator didnt think it was unfair for Vanquis to 
decline Mr Cs claim under section 75 of the CCA because T wasnt responsible for 
providing the flights, so Vanquis wasnt legally answerable for the airlines failure to 
provide them.
Mr C disagrees and hes asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C initially asked Vanquis to dispute the transaction. This is also known as a 
chargeback.
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services he paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Visa  and a 
strict criteria and time limits apply. To be clear, Vanquis doesnt set the rules. And I cant 
change them.
I appreciate that Mr C initially contacted Vanquis in December 2020. But as he later asked 
Vanquis to cancel this dispute, the relevant date for the purposes of Visas time limits is 
16 March 2021.
Ive carefully considered Visas rules. The rules say a chargeback must be initiated no later 
than:
120 calendar days from the transaction date  which here would be 3 July 2020, 
when Mr C paid for the flights; or
120 calendar days from the last date that Mr C expected to receive the service  
though it cant be more than 540 calendar days from the transaction date.
Regrettably, when Mr C contacted Vanquis on 16 March 2021, it was more than 120 days 
from the date he expected to receive the service  so Vanquis was right when it told Mr C it 
couldnt initiate a chargeback. (The 540-day limit isnt engaged here because Mr C was due 
to fly to Bangkok a few months after he purchased the flights.)
When Vanquis explained to Mr C that it couldnt initiate a chargeback, Mr C asked about 
section 75 of the CCA.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, the credit provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier.
Its disappointing that Vanquis told Mr C that section 75 didnt apply because each individual 
item was less than £100.01. While its true that section 75 only applies if the cash price of 
the goods or services is more than £100 (and less than £30,000), the flights clearly cost 
more than £100  so the letter Vanquis sent Mr C on 28 June 2021 was confusing and 
unhelpful.
However, when Mr C spoke to the Vanquis employee on 22 April 2021, she essentially said 
Vanquis would decline Mr Cs section 75 claim because he hadnt paid the airline directly. I 
know Mr C will be very disappointed but I dont think it was unfair for Vanquis to decline his 
claim on this basis. Ill explain why.
In this case, Vanquis is legally answerable for any breach of contract by T. It is not, however, 
legally answerable for the airlines actions. So Ive carefully considered Ts terms and 
conditions  which is the contract in this case  to see what it was contractually required to 
do. I agree with our investigator that the terms and conditions dont make it as clear as 
others Ive seen that T is only responsible for advertising and arranging the sale of the 
flights, and isnt responsible for providing the actual flights. Nevertheless, on balance, I think 
thats the nature of its contractual obligations. I say this because the terms and conditions 
repeatedly refer to, and defer to, the airlines own terms and conditions. For example, the 
section on refunds says:
Unused or part used air tickets are returned to the airline for authorisation and 
calculation of any refund dueIn most case, [T] is not permitted to make any refund 
without reference to the airline.I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr C. The airline cancelled the flights and hes out of 
pocket through no fault of his own. However, Ive seen insufficient evidence that the airlines 
failure to provide the flights or a refund amounts to a breach of contract by T. As a result, I 
dont think it was unfair for Vanquis to decline Mr Cs claim under section 75 of the CCA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman