DRN-2015383
The complaint
Mr B complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have unfairly 
declined his legal expenses insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant policy exclusion states that Lloyds will not cover claims concerning 
someone legally taking your property from you, whether you are offered money or 
not, or restrictions or controls placed on your property by any government, public or 
local authority. So there is no requirement for formal legal proceedings to have been 
initiated in order for the exclusion to apply, as the scope of the term also extends to 
restrictions or controls placed on your property by any government, public or local 
authority.
I appreciate that Mr B may have consulted an English language expert, who did not 
consider the sentence to make sense. But contractual provisions are rarely written in 
prose. And I do not consider the exclusion to be ambiguous or unclear in any event 
because  taking account of the entire policy document holistically  I consider that 
the reasonable policyholder would understand the use of the word or to indicate 
that the term equally applies to restrictions or controls in addition to legal action 
being taken.
 
The local Council wrote to Mr B on 4 March 2019 setting out their position in terms of 
his property. And although they were not taking legal action, they were placing a 
condition on Mr Bs property that he alter his boundary and reinstall [the] wall and 
gates in the correct position as soon as it becomes practical for [him] to do so. Im 
satisfied that this can reasonably be considered as a control or restriction such that 
it falls within the scope of the above exclusion, so I therefore do not consider DAS to 
have declined the claim unfairly.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, and I understand he feels strongly 
about his complaint. But having considered all the evidence, Im not satisfied DAS have 
acted unfairly in these circumstances, and I agree with their interpretation and application of 
the policy exclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman