DRN-2442784
The complaint
Mr S is complaining on behalf of A, a limited company about Santander UK Plc. Mr S is 
unhappy about the service he received in branch when he wanted to pay a cheque into one 
of As employees account.
What happened
Mr S visited a Santander branch on 14 February 2019 to pay a cheque into one of As 
employees bank account. Unfortunately, the cheque wasnt signed but upon request by the 
cashier at Santander, Mr S signed the cheque.
The cashier asked Mr S to prove that he was an authorised signatory and in response to 
this, Mr S asked the cashier to check the mandate (on the account). There seems to have 
been some confusion over what Mr S meant, and the situation escalated.
Other cashiers became involved and Mr S says he felt belittled and was unhappy about the 
service he received in branch especially as he shouldnt have been asked to prove he was a 
signatory. In settlement of the complaint he wants compensation and a full hand-written 
apology from the three staff members involved.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said although she could understand why 
Mr S felt Santander were wrong to ask him to prove he was a signatory, we do not have the 
authority to tell Santander how to run its business.
She said there had been misunderstandings around the word mandate during Mr S branch 
visit and this had been fedback to the branch staff. She also said if we were going to award 
compensation it would be for any inconvenience A itself has experienced rather than Mr S. 
This is because the complaint is about As account and A is a separate legal entity to Mr S 
who is representing A.
Mr S didnt agree with this. He said he was unhappy that such a serious issue has been 
brushed aside. He re-iterated that the branch staff were incompetent because they didnt 
know what a mandate meant and said theyd failed him. He also wanted our investigator to 
check any CCTV footage held by Santander. Our investigator explained she wouldnt be 
doing this and Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review.
I issued a provisional decision, an extract of which Ive included below:
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have reached the same outcome as our 
investigator, my provisional decision sets out why.
As I wasnt present during the branch visit when it took place, I dont know exactly what 
happened but I have taken into careful consideration the testimony from both parties.
Both parties have said once Mr S signed the cheque the cashier asked him to prove that he 
was an authorised signatory on As account. Mr S asked the cashier to check the mandate. 
He says at this point, another staff member referred to there being a number of mandates to 
check. I understand that due to this confusion the situation was not resolved and Mr S left 
the branch unhappy.
As the cheque was initially presented unsigned, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Santander to ascertain that Mr S was an authorised signatory for the account.
Santander was protecting the account held by A by trying to make sure a cheque issued 
from that account was signed by a person who had the authorisation to do so. So I dont 
think Santander did anything wrong in this respect.
However, it does look like there was some confusion over what was meant by the term 
mandate during the branch visit. Santander has explained this can mean different aspects 
of an account  for example, Direct Debits and Standing Orders etc. During the branch visit 
the word mandate was not interpreted by Santander as a signatory on As account. This led 
to the situation escalating in branch.
So whilst I agree Santander couldve provided a better service in branch, I think this was due 
to a misunderstanding and Santander have said feedback has been given to the branch 
Mr S visited. Because of this, I dont think Santander needs to do anything further. It follows 
that I wont be asking the members of staff to provide written apologies, nor will I be asking 
Santander to provide any compensation to Mr S or A.
Mr S would like our service to review CCTV footage of the branch visit. But as our 
investigator explained, this wouldnt change the outcome of the complaint. We wouldnt 
award compensation to Mr S for the level of service he received in branch as he is bringing 
the complaint on behalf of A. We could only consider inconvenience A has experienced, but 
as Ive explained above, I dont think Santander need to do anything further in this respect. 
And both parties have been able to put forwards their version of events which I have taken 
into consideration in reaching a decision on As complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Santander UK Plc do not need to do anything further. If either 
party has anything further to add, they should do so by the deadline given, Ill then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching my final decision.
Mr S got in touch to say he didnt accept the provisional decision. He said he wasnt asked to 
prove he was a signatory, but he was told he couldnt sign the cheque. He remains unhappy 
that the branch staff including the manager didnt know what a mandate was. He also said 
its important we get CCTV as this will prove what was said and how they all ganged up on 
him. 
Santander didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained once Mr S signed the cheque the cashier asked him to 
prove that he was an authorised signatory on As account. But Mr S has replied to say he 
wasnt asked to prove he was a signatory and was told he couldnt sign the cheque.
But in Mr S correspondence that hes submitted to our service this says As an authorised 
signatory, I signed the cheque in front of the cashier. She told me that the cheque is not mine and I cannot sign it. I mentioned to her that I am an authorised signatory and she 
asked me to prove that I have an authority. So I dont think there has been any 
misunderstandings here based on Mr S initial submissions to our service. 
Importantly, I think the crux of Mr S complaint is that the branch staff didnt understand what 
he meant by the term mandate and he was unhappy with the way this was handled in 
branch. But Santander has explained this term can mean different aspects of an account 
and during the branch visit the word mandate was not interpreted by Santander as a 
signatory on As account. Although I agree Santander couldve provided a better service in 
branch, as I explained in my provisional decision, this was due to a misunderstanding. 
Santander have said feedback has been given to the branch Mr S visited and I think this is 
sufficient. 
It remains that I dont think Santander needs to do anything further so I wont be asking the 
members of staff to provide written apologies, nor will I be asking Santander to provide any 
compensation to Mr S or A.
Mr S maintains we should get CCTV as this will prove how Santander spoke to him. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, we wouldnt award compensation to Mr S for the level 
of service he received in branch as he is bringing the complaint on behalf of A. For this 
reason I havent asked for CCTV.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc do not need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman