DRN-3354893
The complaint
Mr I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt refunded money lost 
after he fell victim to a scam when trying to buy a car.
Mr Is wife was also involved in the purchase but, for clarity, Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr I was interested in buying a car hed found advertised on the marketplace of a social 
media site. He made contact with the seller to discuss the car. He didnt know at the time, 
but hed actually contacted a fraudster that was running a scam.
The price of the car was confirmed as £2,500 and the scammer said there were no issues 
with it. The scammer confirmed the model, mileage, condition, MOT status, and service 
history. Mr I checked for similar cars online and found they were selling from between 
£4,000 and £11,000.
Mr I asked to inspect the car before buying it. But the scammer told him that wouldnt be 
possible as the car was already being held by a courier, ready to be delivered post-sale. 
They went on to say that the sale would be handled by a large, well-known online retailer 
which Ill refer to as A. The scammer said A would take the payment and arrange delivery. 
They further explained A would offer an escrow service, where it would hold the money until 
the car had been delivered and inspected by Mr I. The scammer said if Mr I wasnt happy 
hed be able to return the car, at the sellers cost, within five days of receiving it and get his 
money back.
The scammer said they were using this service as they were leaving the country for a year 
and needed to sell the car quickly.
Mr I was then sent an email with an invoice attached which claimed to be from the genuine 
A. It had As logo on the invoice as well as some terms and conditions relating to the sale. It 
also had the bank details and payee name that payment would need to be made to.
Mr I then asked some more questions including a query about the exchange of the V5C 
document and how the car would be insured. The scammer provided some explanation and 
also said, I want to take this opportunity to tell you that it's nothing to worry about. I am 75 
years old, I'm a grandmother, I worked hard all my life for money. At my age, I don't have 
time to lose going to prison.
Mr I proceeded to make the payment, but when the car didnt arrive and no further contact 
was received he realised hed fallen victim to a scam. He notified NatWest.
NatWest tried to recover the funds from the bank theyd been sent to, albeit later than it 
ought to have done. It was told that none of Mr Is money remained in the account and so 
there was nothing to return.
NatWest then considered whether it ought to reimburse Mr I as he was the victim of a scam. 
In doing so, it considered its obligations under the Lending Standards Boards CRM Code, of 
which it is a signatory. It went on to say that it had presented Mr I with a warning about 
scams involving non-existent goods, which hed acknowledged. It also said Mr I hadnt done 
enough to check the legitimacy of the sale, including seeing the car in person. And so it 
declined to refund him.
Mr I was unhappy with NatWests response and so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered everything and said NatWest had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances when it declined to refund Mr I. 
Our investigator said that the payment wasnt such a clear scam risk that NatWest was 
required, under the Code, to present a warning to Mr I. He also said that he didnt think Mr I 
had a reasonable basis for believing the purchase was legitimate, because:
the price appeared too good to be true, given it was significantly less than the range 
of prices Mr I says hed seen elsewhere, which ought to have prompted a level of 
suspicion on Mr Is part;
Mr I didnt carry out any checks on the car;
little detail around delivery or return of the car was provided and the escrow function 
wasnt explained;
it was odd that the seller said the car was already with a courier;
the involvement of A was unusual and something that ought to have been checked 
by Mr I. Our investigator said that A wasnt involved in the sale of cars and neither did 
it offer an escrow service and Mr I could have checked this himself before proceeding 
with payment.
Our investigator also looked at the effect of NatWests delay in chasing the money. He said 
that whilst NatWest ought to have acted more quickly, Mr Is money had already been 
removed from the recipient account by the time he reported the scam. And so acting more 
quickly would have made no practical difference.
Mr I disagreed with the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but Im not upholding his complaint and for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. 
NatWest is a signatory to the CRM Code which sets out when a bank ought to reimburse 
victims of APP scams, like Mr I. The starting position is that a customer ought to be refunded 
in most circumstances. But there are exceptions to reimbursement that can apply. NatWest 
has relied on  and I find has fairly evidenced  that one or more of these exceptions apply. 
The relevant exceptions to reimbursement are, in summary, where it can be shown the 
customer (Mr I):
ignored an Effective Warning given by the bank at the time payment was being 
made;lacked a reasonable basis of belief that they were engaged in a legitimate purchase 
with a legitimate party.
Effective Warnings
Im not persuaded the warning presented by NatWest met the requirements set out in the 
CRM Code, in terms of the standards for firms and what makes for an effective warning. 
However, I also find that it wasnt required to present such a warning under the Code, given 
the value of the payment being made.
Whilst the £2,500 lost to the scam isnt a small or inconsequential sum of money, I dont 
believe the payment was so remarkable that it ought to have clearly presented a scam risk to 
NatWest. As such, the bank did enough in the circumstances in showing the warning it did 
and I dont need to consider the standards required by the Code. 
This finding means that the Effective Warning exception to reimbursement doesnt apply, but 
it also means that liability on NatWests part (in terms of a failing to meet the Codes 
standards for firms) isnt established.
Mr Is reasonable basis for belief
Its here where I find NatWest has fairly declined to refund Mr I under the Code. Ill say here 
that I dont doubt that Mr I believed he was genuinely buying the car at the time. Mr I has 
rightly questioned why he would send money for something he suspected didnt exist. I dont 
doubt that he did have faith in what he was doing.
What I have to consider is whether his belief at the time was reasonable, in consideration of 
all of the evidence and facts. I appreciate that things appear much clearer looking back with 
the benefit of hindsight, and when a scam has been identified. But, none the less, I consider 
there was enough going on at the time of purchase that meant Mr I ought to have been more 
cautious and carried out further checks. Im persuaded the scam would have been revealed 
had he done so.
I agree with our investigators finding that Mr I ought to have been suspicious of the price of 
the car as it appeared too good to be true. It was significantly less than other similar models 
hed seen advertised for sale, but with little explanation (and no questioning by Mr I) as to 
why that was.
Its true the scammer offered up the explanation that they were leaving the country, which 
might have reasonably meant the acceptance of a lower price. But that didnt then tie up with 
what theyd said about the car already being with a courier. If that was the case, it follows 
there wouldnt have been such a rush to sell the car, at such a significantly reduced price. If 
A and a courier were involved, why would there be a need for such haste at the expense of a 
better price for the seller?
Mr I clearly wanted to view the car before buying, he asked about this twice before agreeing 
to purchase it. He was told it wouldnt be possible as the car was already with the courier. 
But its unclear why that would still present a barrier to Mr I seeing the car. Its reasonable to 
consider the car could have been viewed at the couriers premises. I cant see that Mr I 
asked about this possibility, or where the courier might be based. 
Im persuaded the alleged involvement of A was also a warning sign. It seems Mr I took 
assurances from this involvement. But A is a very well-known company. And yet it is not 
known for being involved in the buying and selling of cars. Nor does it offer the escrow services described by the scammer. These are facts that can be checked quite easily online, 
but Mr I doesnt seem to have done so. 
The process of the sale and delivery of the car, as well as the escrow function, all look to 
have been unchecked and unchallenged too. 
Ive considered the conversation between Mr I and the scammer before he sent payment. Its 
clear there are very few questions asked and in turn little to no checks are carried out. The 
scammer assures Mr I that the logbook and V5C are available and yet Ive seen no evidence 
to suggest Mr I asked to see, or was shown, pictures of either which might have otherwise 
suggested a legitimate sale. 
I also find some of what the scammer says unusual. As an example, the scammer says at 
one point, and almost completely unprompted, I want to take this opportunity to tell you that 
it's nothing to worry about. I am 75 years old, I'm a grandmother, I worked hard all my life for 
money. At my age, I don't have time to lose going to prison. 
Mr I hadnt raised any questions about the legitimacy of the sale or the quality of the sellers 
character. This then seems an unusual thing to say out of the blue, to the extent it appears 
suspicious.
Mr I has said how he found the invoice he was sent, allegedly from A, to be particularly 
persuasive. But I dont think it can be reasonably said to be a sophisticated or convincing 
document. It appears As logo has simply been copied from its website. There is little else on 
the invoice to suggest it is legitimate. And there was no access to any of the sale details on 
As website.
I can also see the payee name given on the invoice has no relation to A; it appears to be a 
completely unconnected limited company. I cant see that the name of the payee, or why it 
didnt relate to A, was ever questioned. 
With all of this in mind I think there was enough going on that Mr I ought to have had 
concerns about the sale. It seems everything was taken at face value, where checks ought 
to have been carried out. And so I dont find Mr I had a reasonable basis for believing he 
was engaged in a legitimate purchase with a legitimate seller.
NatWests recovery action
I dont have much to add here beyond what the investigator has already said. It is true that 
NatWest ought to have acted more quickly. Swift action is key in attempting to recover funds 
lost to fraud and scams. 
However, it is sadly also true that fraudsters move ill-gotten funds on quickly, often 
immediately after receipt, meaning there is little chance of recovery. Im satisfied that was 
the situation here. Even had NatWest acted immediately when it was informed of the scam, 
Mr Is money had already gone. And so NatWests delay had no impact on the prospect of 
recovery.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman