DRN-4298438
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund his legal fees and costs 
following a scam claim. 
What happened
Between 16 and 19 October 2020 Mr O made three payments of £10,000 for gold that he did 
not receive. He contacted HSBC to make a claim in March 2021, but HSBC didnt agree to 
reimburse any of his lost funds. It said the beneficiary bank had investigated but found no 
evidence of fraudulent activity. HSBC advised Mr O to contact the seller. 
Mr O says that he started court proceedings which cost him a lot of money. The case didnt 
proceed because the court said Mr O didnt pay court fees in time.
In October 2022 Mr O complained to HSBC through a legal representative. HSBC 
considered Mr Os complaint and said that when Mr O raised a scam claim in March 2021 it 
followed the correct process and contacted the bank that received his funds. But at that 
stage the receiving bank said there was no evidence of fraud in respect of the payment its 
customer received so there was nothing more HSBC could do. HSBC then received a 
complaint from Mr Os legal representative in October 2022. By this time, it said changes 
had been made to the CRM guide which meant that after a review HSBC was able to 
reimburse Mr Os loss in full. HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong in March 2021 and 
wouldnt pay Mr Os legal fees. 
Mr O was unhappy with HSBCs response and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Os complaint recommended that HSBC pay Mr O 
interest at the rate of 8% simple because Mr O had been deprived of the funds but did not 
make any other award. In summary, she said:
- There was no record of a formal complaint by Mr O to HSBC in 2021 and if Mr O had 
complained the investigator said she would expect Mr O to follow it up and then be 
referred to this service.
- Mr O could have brought a complaint to this service for free. There is a lot of 
information available about the service we provide, including on HSBCs website. 
- Mr O chose to instruct solicitors and entered into an agreement with them. 
- In respect of Mr Os other legal costs, the investigator said that Mr O chose to take 
this action when an informal option was available.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators findings, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. In summary, he said that hes incurred considerable costs in trying to get his 
money back that he wouldnt have needed to pay if HSBC refunded him when he first 
claimed. Mr O says he is seeking around £19,000 to cover his legal representatives fees, 
court fees when he took the gold company to court, his time in seeking to recover his lost 
£30,000 and parking costs when HSBC challenged nearly all his transactions after the scam 
 saying they could be fraudulent. Mr O also said the cost of gold has also gone up, but he 
hasnt been able to benefit from this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify with Mr O that HSBC isnt automatically responsible for the fact he paid 
money by bank transfer for gold he didnt receive. Paying by faster payment is like paying by 
cash in that the funds enter the recipient account immediately and can only be recovered if a 
scam is reported and funds remain in the account. It isnt the case that because he didnt 
receive the goods his bank is liable. 
At the time Mr O made the payments in 2020 HSBC had signed up to the CRM Code. The 
CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers and does not cover situations where a 
customer has paid a legitimate supplier for something they havent received. This amounts 
to a breach of contract which is a civil issue. The CRM Code only applies in very specific 
circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of an APP (authorised push 
payment) scam. Under the CRM Code, an APP scam is defined as:
 a transfer of fundswhere 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii)The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
When Mr O reported what had happened to HSBC in March 2021 HSBC contacted the bank 
that had received his funds to try to recover the lost funds. The receiving bank gathered 
evidence from its customer and deemed this to be a civil dispute between Mr O and the 
supplier of gold. In the circumstances, HSBC acted reasonably in determining that the CRM 
Code didnt apply and there was nothing more it could do to recover Mr Os funds. If Mr O 
disagreed, he could have contacted HSBC and provided more information to show he was 
the victim of a scam. 
At the time the payments were made HSBC also had an obligation to look out for unusual 
and out of character payments. I consider HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns 
about the payments and asked Mr O some questions to satisfy itself he wasnt at risk of 
being defrauded. But I think if HSBC had done so there wouldnt have been any concerns 
and the transactions would have been processed. This was because Mr O says he saw a lot 
of positive reviews and received documentation. So, Im not satisfied that if HSBC had 
intervened the scam would have been uncovered. 
When Mr O complained to HSBC in 2022 HSBC again contacted the receiving bank, but this 
time was advised that no funds remained. This meant that HSBC could consider Mr Os 
complaint under the CRM Code. After assessing Mr Os claim under the CRM Code HSBC 
provided a full refund but hasnt paid interest. 
Its still unclear to me whether this is a civil dispute or a scam. I have asked Mr O for 
information that would help me to decide this point, but he hasnt replied. By refunding Mr O 
under the CRM Code, HSBC has reached the conclusion that Mr O is the victim of a scam, 
so Mr O has been deprived of funds in circumstances that HSBC has accepted meet the 
definition of an APP scam in the CRM Code. In these circumstances, this service awards 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date a firm made its decision not to 
reimburse to the date of settlement.
I turn now to Mr Os costs. It might help if I explain that even if I was satisfied Mr O was the 
victim of a scam and HSBC did something wrong when he first contacted it in March 2021, I 
wouldnt be recommending that HSBC refund the fee he has paid to his legal representative 
or his legal costs in bringing a claim to court. Mr O could have raised a complaint directly 
with HSBC and not incurred any fees, but HSBC has no record of a formal complaint being raised. The complaints procedure could have been provided by staff but was also available 
on HSBCs website. 
Also, the Damages Based Agreement Mr O had with the legal representative he instructed 
meant that he was charged a 25% success fee (plus VAT), not a fee based on the amount of 
work they did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement and it is not for 
HSBC to meet this fee. If Mr O is unhappy with the amount he was charged by his 
representative or with the work that was done this is a separate matter that doesnt form part 
of this complaint against HSBC.
Given that I consider HSBC acted reasonably when Mr O brought his claim in March 2021, I 
am not awarding any costs or expenses as claimed by Mr O. 
Mr O said in response to the view that he wished to add additional costs of £1,000 to cover 
parking fees when he had to attend branch when subsequent payments were blocked as 
potentially fraudulent by HSBC. This wasnt part of the complaint that was originally brought 
to this service, so I wont consider it here. Mr O may choose to raise a separate complaint 
with HSBC about this, if he hasnt already.
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
- Pay interest on the award of £30,000 from the date HSBC declined his claim in 
March 2021 to the date of settlement. 
If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest award it should tell Mr O how much it has taken 
off. It should also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman