DRN-2411298
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr C complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited 
declined its life insurance claim. 
The estate is being represented by the late Mr Cs son, also known as Mr C, who Ill mainly 
refer to in the decision. 
What happened
On 15 April 2014 the late Mr C applied for a life insurance policy with LV through an 
intermediary. On 5 May 2014 he checked, signed and returned the application to LV. 
Sadly, on 15 September 2018 the late Mr C died. So, Mr C made a claim under this policy. 
LV reviewed the claim but decided to decline it. It said the late Mr C had failed to make it 
aware of his diabetes. Specifically, LV said he shouldve answered yes to the following 
questions;
Do you currently have or have you ever had any of the following:
-diabetes or sugar in the urine?
And: 
Are you awaiting the results of, or have you been advised to have, any medical 
investigations, tests or scans or have you any expectation of seeking medical advice or 
treatment in the near future?
Mr C was unhappy with this decision, so he made a complaint to LV. LV reviewed the 
complaint but said it wasnt changing its decision to decline the claim and keep the 
premiums. It said the late Mr C had various blood tests in March 2014 which led to a 
diagnosis of diabetes in April 2014 shortly before he applied for the policy. 
Mr C disagreed so he brought the complaint to this service. He said that the 
Insurance Act 2015 says that a claim cannot be rejected if an incorrectly answered question 
on the application is irrelevant to the claim. He believes his father made his intermediary 
aware of his diabetes because he found a copy of the application with handwritten notes on 
which marked the questions about diabetes and having sugar in his urine.
 
Mr C added that he didnt think his father was fully aware of the diabetes diagnosis due to 
him being a layperson and having memory problems. And LV hasnt clearly stated in its 
terms and conditions what criteria it uses to come up with their decisions on whether it 
wouldve accepted this policy or not. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied the 
late Mr C had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his medical history when applying for 
the policy. She said the medical information showed he was being investigated for diabetes 
in March and April 2014 just before the application was taken out. And that if he had 
answered the above questions correctly, LV wouldnt have offered him the policy. So, she 
felt it was fair that LV cancelled the policy and kept the premiums. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said in 2016 his fathers 
GP noted that he had said he was never told he was diabetic or given any information on 
this. Mr C says this casts doubt over whether his father was made aware of the diagnosis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr C feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The investigator has already mentioned that the Insurance Act 2015 is for commercial 
customers taking out insurance policies. So, Ive not considered that here. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I understand Mr C says his father didnt misrepresent his medical history to his intermediary 
and LV. But I can only consider whether LV was made aware of this information and in the 
event it wasnt, what it wouldve done differently. If Mr C would like to raise a complaint about 
the way the policy was sold this would have to be a separate complaint. 
So, the issues for me to consider are whether the late Mr C has misrepresented his medical 
history when taking out this policy. And if so, LV needs to show it wouldnt have offered the 
policy at all or on different terms. 
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Mr Cs diabetes?
Ive reviewed the questions the late Mr C was asked. Im satisfied the above questions were 
sufficiently clear to allow him to answer them correctly. And Im satisfied there were also 
clear and suitable warnings about the failure to answer these questions correctly before and 
after the policy started. So, I believe LV sufficiently brought these to the late Mr Cs attention.
Having reviewed the medical records and what Mr C has said, Im satisfied the questions 
were answered incorrectly. The GPs notes show that the late Mr C was being investigated for diabetes in March 2014 with blood results showing abnormal glucose levels. His GP 
advised him to have a further test and a conversation took place with a nurse in relation to 
his cholesterol and diet in which he told her the hospital had previously advised him two 
years earlier that he had a glucose impairment. On 11 April 2014 he was diagnosed with 
diabetes. 
Mr C has said his father made handwritten notes on the application. So, the late Mr C was 
given the opportunity to review the answers he had given to LV in May 2014. But LV werent 
made aware of any amendments despite asking for it to be made aware of any changes to 
the late Mr Cs medical history. So, Im satisfied  on balance - the late Mr C was happy with 
the answers he had given. 
Mr C says his father had memory issues which had been noted since 2012 in the GP 
records. But Im not persuaded  on balance  this led to the late Mr C forgetting about his 
investigations and diabetes diagnosis so close to the application being submitted. 
I believe the amendments the late Mr C made to the form, and the fact he told LV about his 
gout, show that he was aware of his medical history at the time. Also, he mentioned to the 
nurse his glucose impairment from two years earlier in March 2014. So, Im satisfied  on 
balance - he was aware of his medical history in relation to his diabetes at the time of the 
application.  
CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made LV aware of 
the late Mr Cs diabetes when applying for the policy. Having done so, I dont think a 
reasonable person wouldve forgotten the above when completing, and then reviewing, the 
application when considering the questions LV asked. The application was completed only a 
few days after Mr Cs appointments and diagnosis. So, Im not satisfied a reasonable person 
wouldve forgotten about this information so close to the application. 
What would LV have done differently?
LV has said if it was aware of Mr Cs full medical history it wouldnt have given him the life 
insurance policy. Its decided he deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his medical 
history and has decided to keep the premiums. Under CIDRA, when its found a consumer 
has made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, LV can take whatever action it 
wouldve taken if the correct answers had been given at the point of application. And it can 
decide to keep the premiums the late Mr C paid into the policy. 
In order for a misrepresentation to be considered deliberate or reckless I need to be satisfied 
the late Mr C; 
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading and didnt care whether it was 
untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer or 
didnt care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances here and the answers the late Mr C gave. 
Having done so, Im satisfied this was a reckless misrepresentation. Mr C made 
amendments to the form and made marks next to the questions about diabetes himself on 
his application. He was also given the opportunity to review the answers he had given in 
May 2014, but LV wasnt made aware of any changes in relation to the diabetes. And given 
the close proximity of his tests and diagnosis of diabetes to the time of his application, Im 
satisfied  on balance - he reasonably knew the information he had provided wasnt correct 
and that the information was relevant to the insurer. So, Im satisfied LV was able to keep the premiums under CIDRA here. As a result, Im not 
going to ask LV to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman