DRN-3290445
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited turned down his claim for damage to a 
vehicle under his Motor Trade insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E was driving a pick-up truck belonging to his sons company when he had an accident 
and the truck was badly damaged. His son was a passenger at the time and Mr E has 
explained he was driving the vehicle to his sons house to pick up an engine hoist. 
Mr E wasnt a named driver under the policy his sons company had covering the truck, so 
he claimed for the damage to it under his motor traders policy. Ageas turned his claim down 
on the basis he wasnt using the truck in connection with his business at the time of the 
accident. 
Mr E complained to Ageas, but they still wouldnt pay his claim. So, he asked us to consider 
his complaint about their decision. When they made their submission to us, Ageas also 
mentioned the Road Risks section of Mr Es policy doesnt cover him to drive vehicles 
belonging his relatives.  
One of our investigators considered Mr Es complaint. He wrote to Ageas and said they 
should settle Mr Es claim. This was on the basis that  because he was using the truck to 
go and pick up a hoist  he was using it in connection with his business. 
Ageas have asked for an ombudsmans decision, as they dont agree with our investigator.
In their first response Ageas said only company owned vehicles were covered under Mr Es 
policy. And they also pointed out that the vehicle didnt belong to Mr E, so he had no 
financial interest in it. They also explained again that it belonged Mr E son and Mr Es policy 
didnt cover him for driving vehicles belonging to relatives. 
Our investigator wrote to Ageas again explaining that the truck didnt belong to Mr Es son, it 
belonged to a company. And he said he still thought Ageas should settle Mr Es claim. 
Ageas then came back and said Mr E didnt mention the fact that he was collecting a hoist 
from his sons house when he reported the claim or in a follow up email. And they think this 
shows he was just taking his son home.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to consider in this case is the cover under Mr Es policy. Under the 
Road Risks section this covers Mr E to drive any Vehicle which is Your property or in Your 
custody or control in connection with Your Business as described in the Schedule 
Excluding
4.any motor vehicle privately owned by You or any of Your directors partners or 
Employees or relative of Yours or hired to them under a hire purchase agreement 
unless the vehicle is in Your custody or control for sale repair testing service 
maintenance alteration cleaning or for inspection purposes. 
The business described in the schedule is Used Vehicle Sales and Mechanical Servicing 
and Repairs. This means the key considerations in deciding the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint are whether the truck damaged in the accident was in Mr Es 
custody or control at the time of the accident and whether he was using it in connection with 
his business at the time. 
I think Mr E was using the truck in connection with his business. This is because his 
business includes mechanical servicing and repairs and Mr E was using it to go and pick up 
an engine hoist, so he could pick up an engine to work on for a customer the next day. Im 
satisfied with Mr Es testimony on this point, because as soon as he was asked by our 
investigator why he didnt use his car to give his son a lift, he said it was because he needed 
the truck to pick up the hoist and he explained what he needed the hoist for. Also, when I 
spoke to him Mr L explained the hoist wouldnt have fitted in his caddy van, due to its shape. 
And he needed the open back of the truck to be able to get it in. Mr E has also sent me a 
photograph of the hoist and I can see what he means.
I appreciate that Mr E didnt mention the hoist when he first reported the claim or in his email 
soon after this. But Im satisfied that this was because Ageas didnt ask him why he hadnt 
used his car or van to take his son home. I think if theyd asked him this hed have explained 
it was because he needed to pick up the hoist. 
I also think the truck was in Mr Es control, as he was driving it at the time of the accident. I 
think it was in his custody as well, even though his son was also in the truck. This is because 
Mr E was completely in control of it and using it for his own purposes, ie to collect a hoist to 
use for his business.  
I dont agree with Ageas that the trucked belonged to a relative of Mr Es, as it is clear from 
the leasing agreement it belongs to a limited company. This might be a company of which 
his son is a director or the proprietor, but it means it is not actually owned by Mr Es son. 
I have also considered Ageass point about Mr E not having a financial interest in the truck. 
But I dont agree with them on this either. As Ive said, I think it was in his custody at the time 
of the accident, so he was responsible for it. And this means he had a financial interest in it, 
as he was liable for any damage to it while it was in his custody.  
Putting things right
Therefore, because I think the truck Mr E has claimed for was in his custody and control at 
the time it was damaged and being used in connection with his business, Ive decided the 
fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Es complaint is for Ageas to settle his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and order 
Ageas Insurance Limited to settle his claim in accordance with the claim settlement terms in 
his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
Robert Short
Ombudsman