DRN-4214285
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint arises from their mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest). Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that in August 2022 NatWest refused to change the 
mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only. 
To settle the complaint they would like NatWest to transfer the mortgage onto an 
interest-only basis immediately.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs R being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs R have a capital repayment mortgage with NatWest which was initially 
comprised of a main mortgage of £178,000 taken out in August 2014 and sub-accounts for 
further advances taken out in 2020 totalling £128,000. Mr and Mrs R paid off the main 
mortgage in July 2022 and asked NatWest to transfer the sub-accounts onto an interest-only 
basis. Because Mr and Mrs R didnt meet affordability criteria for this, NatWest declined the 
request.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think this was fair and complained. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint 
so it was brought to our service where an investigator looked at what had happened. The 
investigator was satisfied NatWest hadnt done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr R, who has dealt with 
the complaint throughout, says that NatWests lending criteria are arbitrary, and although 
he didnt meet those, he did qualify for a new fixed interest rate product. Mr R also sent an 
article from a newspaper dated 8 December 2022 which says that borrowers in financial 
difficulty can make a temporary switch to interest-only without a repayment vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) a 
request to change the mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only is considered to be a 
change that is material to affordability. The original mortgage which Mr and Mrs R paid off in 
July 2022 was taken out after 26 April 2014, and so the transitional arrangements that allow 
the bank to dispense with an affordability assessment in some cases do not apply here.
NatWest has provided us with a copy of its lending criteria. I note the banks request to keep 
this confidential. However it can easily be found online and so it is not commercially sensitive 
or confidential information if the bank makes it available to the public. 
NatWest is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that NatWest makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular request, and whether it 
should change the mortgage to interest-only are clearly discretionary matters for NatWests 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
NatWests lending criteria requires joint borrowers to have income of not less than £100,000. 
This is reasonable, because although the customer is making lower repayments than they 
would on a capital repayment mortgage, the risk to the lender is greater as none of the 
capital is being repaid. Its therefore in line with the banks responsible lending obligations to 
ensure that customers are likely to have the income to support a collateral repayment 
vehicle to pay off the capital balance at the end of the loan term.
Mr and Mrs R did not meet NatWests lending criteria as they were below the required 
income threshold the bank requires. I note what Mr and Mrs R have said about what they 
perceive to be the low risk to the bank of transferring the mortgage onto interest-only. 
Theyve explained that they have investments they can liquidate so they can pay off the 
mortgage at the end of the term (there are, in fact two end dates for the two sub-accounts). 
Alternatively, because of the relatively low loan-to-value ratio (LTV), Mr and Mrs R have said 
they could sell the property and downsize with no problem. 
NatWest didnt explore any potential repayment vehicle for the mortgage, because the 
application failed at the first hurdle, which was the income requirement. I acknowledge 
Mr Rs point that the switch would have reduced the monthly repayments, so doesnt 
understand why insufficient income means his payments will remain higher. But the 
application Mr and Mrs R made wasnt for a temporary switch to interest-only for forbearance 
reasons. They requested a permanent switch, and permanent switches have to meet certain 
criteria. If Mr and Mrs R had requested a temporary switch to interest-only for forbearance 
reasons because they were struggling to make the full monthly repayments, then that would 
have been looked at as part of a wider package of measure that are available to customers 
in financial difficulties. That is a different process, and not what Mr and Mrs R applied for.
At the time of the request, the monthly mortgage repayments were approximately £2,000 per 
month. Mr R has told us that he is having to deplete his investments by this amount each 
month in order to pay the mortgage. Yet at the time of the application in August 2022 
Mr and Mrs R had a joint income, according to the information provided to NatWest, of 
almost £60,000. So unless they also have extensive unsecured credit commitments, it is 
difficult to see why they are having to draw £24,000 a year from their savings, as Mr R 
claims, simply in order to pay the mortgage.
The article Mr R provided refers to discussions that were taking place in December 2022 
between Government, the Financial Conduct Authority and mortgage lenders, and which 
resulted in the Mortgage Charter. This is a voluntary commitment by most major mortgage 
lenders to help borrowers who may be experiencing financial difficulty. It came into effect in 
June 2023, and allows borrowers who are struggling to pay their mortgage to switch 
temporarily to interest-only for six months. After that, their mortgage repayments will revert to 
capital repayment, and the payments will increase to take into account the unpaid capital 
over the previous six months.However, unless I have misunderstood, that is not what Mr and Mrs R want. They want their 
mortgage to be switched permanently to interest-only, rather than for six months. Because 
they didnt meet the criteria for a permanent switch, Im unable to find NatWest acted 
unfairly.
 
If Mr and Mrs Rs income increases to enable them to meet NatWests minimum income 
criteria, they can always apply again to switch their mortgage to interest only. If they meet 
the income criteria, the bank will then assess whether there is a suitable repayment strategy 
for the mortgage.
If Mr and Mrs R are experiencing financial difficulty and want to switch the mortgage onto an 
interest-only basis temporarily, they should speak to NatWest about this. As I said above, 
the bank is signed up to the Mortgage Charter and is committed to helping customers who 
are in financial hardship.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman