DRN-4303828
The complaint
Mr E complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly handled his 
charge back request and a subsequent claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA) in respect of a holiday product he purchased using his credit card.
What happened
In or around January 2022, whilst attending a holiday resort outside of the UK, Mr E met with 
a supplier of holiday products and packages who Ill refer to as P. During that meeting, Mr 
E agreed to purchase a holiday package supplied by P. The purchase price agreed was 
€4,550 which Mr E funded using his Halifax credit card  equivalent to £3,820.28.
The holiday package purchased included six weeks accommodation to be utilised within a 
period of 12 months. The first weeks accommodation was booked to be taken in February 
2022 at a resort specified in the purchase contract. Subsequent weeks could then be booked 
by Mr E thereafter through a website - details of which were included within the purchase 
contract.
Mr E later attempted to book further weeks accommodation at the same resort hed attended 
and was included for February 2022. However, despite many attempts using the specified 
website and booking system, Mr E couldnt find any availability for that resort.
Mr E approached the supplier for a refund as he wasnt happy that his preferred 
accommodation wasnt available. He insisted hed been told he would be able to use the 
package to stay at the same named resort. But, despite that assurance, he was unable to 
find any availability and wasnt interested in bookings at other resorts or locations available. 
He believed the product had been mis-sold to him. 
P offered a 50% refund, but Mr E wasnt prepared to accept this offer. So, Mr E contacted 
Halifax to initiate a chargeback claim. It was agreed with Halifax that as Mr P had, by that 
time, already utilised the first weeks booked accommodation, a partial charge back claim 
would be submitted for £3,183.57. Halifax initiated the chargeback and refunded this amount 
to Mr Es credit card account with them. 
Unfortunately, the chargeback claim was successfully defended by P, so the refund was 
reversed. But Mr E wasnt happy as he says he wasnt told the original refund was 
temporary. So, Halifax agreed to consider a claim under section 75 of the CCA (S75) on 
the basis Mr E insisted the purchased had been mis-sold and misrepresented. Having 
considered Mr Es claim, Halifax didnt agree there was evidence to support the alleged 
misrepresentation.
Mr E complained to Halifax about their treatment of his chargeback request and subsequent 
S75 claim. He didnt think Halifax shouldve offered a temporary refund and insisted they 
hadnt told him the refund was conditional upon P accepting it. He also insisted the package 
had been misrepresented to him at the time of the sale and thought he was protected under 
S75.
In response, Halifax acknowledged thered been a delay in responding to Mr Es complaint 
and offered a payment of £75 as compensation. But they didnt agree theyd done anything 
wrong in the way theyd processed Mr Es chargeback request. They also didnt think there 
was any evidence P had breached the terms and conditions of the contract as holiday 
bookings remained available for Mr E at alternative resorts and hotels.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr E referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered all the information and evidence provided. Having done so, they 
didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly in declining Mr Es S75 claim. But although the 
chargeback claim appeared to have been processed correctly, our investigator thought 
Halifax couldve been clearer in their explanation of the refund and its temporary nature. To 
recognise Mr Es resultant loss of expectation. our investigator thought Halifax should 
compensate Mr E for any distress and inconvenience caused by paying him £100.
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators findings. He suggested that during a telephone 
conversation with Halifax, theyd told him not to accept Ps offer of a 50% refund. He says he 
did so on the basis they would refund him £3,183.57. Had Halifax told him this was 
temporary; Mr E says he wouldve accepted Ps offer. Mr E thinks Halifax should pay him the 
50% refund offered by P.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr Es complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means 
Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address in my 
decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
The chargeback request
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
(here thats Halifax) and merchants (here thats P) under the relevant card scheme. The card 
scheme is the business that runs the payment network and the chargeback scheme. And 
chargebacks are ultimately decided based on the card schemes rules rather than the 
relative merits of the dispute. 
Ultimately, the final decision as to whether a chargeback request is successful is made by 
the card scheme, not the card issuer (Halifax). So, as long as Halifax have done everything 
they reasonably could in submitting the chargeback request, if its successfully defended, 
that isnt something that can be challenged by this service.
Chargeback schemes are voluntary codes that card issuers and merchant acquirers sign up 
to. Theyre not guaranteed to recover money as this depends on the underlying 
circumstances and the scheme rules. 
Ive listened to recordings of two calls between Mr E and Halifax. In the first of these, Halifax 
made it clear they could proceed with the dispute chargeback to try and get as much back as 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)they could for Mr E. Halifax also explained that P would be required to respond to any 
chargeback request within 45 days. If they did so, Halifax could further respond giving a 
further 30 days. They made it clear that the process could be long, so a negotiated 
resolution by Mr E with P may be the quicker option.
The second call follows Mr Es failed attempts to reach a satisfactory resolution with P 
having given them a reasonable period of time to do so. This is what I would expect to see 
here. But it appears Mr E still wasnt happy with Ps offer to refund 50%. So, hed returned to 
Halifax to confirm that a satisfactory resolution couldnt be achieved. From the evidence 
available, it appears Halifax then initiated the chargeback request. 
Whilst the call recordings demonstrate that Halifax were satisfied that there was sufficient 
information to enable them to initiate the chargeback request, I dont think Halifax gave any 
guarantees of success at any point. And by explaining to Mr E the response times permitted 
for P, I think they also made it very clear the claim wasnt likely to be resolved quickly.
From the evidence available, I believe Halifax followed the card scheme rules correctly in 
processing Mr Es chargeback request. However, it appears there was some 
misunderstanding around the refund Mr E received to his credit card account. This was 
processed shortly after the claim was initiated and confirmed to Mr E in an SMS text 
message. But it seems it wasnt made clear to Mr E that the refund could be temporary. 
Because of that, Mr E thought his claim had been resolved in his favour. It wasnt until the 
refund was later reversed that he realised it hadnt.
As Ive said above, I think Halifax had made it clear to Mr E that the chargeback request 
could take some time. Particularly given that P had the ability to respond to it within 45 days. 
So, I dont think it was safe to assume the claim had been successful even though Mr E had 
received a refund to his account. Particularly as it was so early in the chargeback process. 
But I accept that Halifax didnt clearly explain that Mr E would receive an up-front refund 
which could then be reversed if successfully defended.
In their response to Mr Es complaint, Halifax explained the reasons why they make an initial 
refund  principally so that Mr E doesnt incur interest costs while his dispute continues. I 
think this was a fair and reasonable explanation albeit hadnt previously been made clear. 
So, I can understand why this mightve been misunderstood. Because of that, I appreciate 
Mr E will have suffered some concern and inconvenience due to that misunderstanding. And 
this could have been avoided had Halifax been clearer in their explanation of their 
chargeback process. So, I think this should be reflected in my decision. And a payment of 
£100 feels fair to me here.
Mr E says he only declined Ps offer to refund 50% at Halifaxs suggestion. But I think hed 
already made it clear to them he wasnt satisfied with Ps offer. And whilst he may have 
sought their view on that, Halifax had merely confirmed they were happy to try to secure a 
larger refund under the chargeback process. Thats what they did here, albeit this was 
unsuccessful. And as chargeback decisions arent ultimately made by Halifax, I cant 
reasonably hold them responsible for the outcome.
Was the product misrepresented or the contract breached?
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr E paid 
for the holiday package under a pre-existing regulated credit card agreement. So it isnt in 
dispute that S75 applies here. This means Mr E is afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and any legal 
claim (for misrepresentation or breach of contract). The complaint this service is able to 
consider specifically relates to whether I believe Halifaxs failure to uphold Mr Es S75 claim 
was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, 
we dont provide a legal service. This service isnt able to make legal findings for claims  
that is the role of the courts. However, where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an 
ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
For me to conclude there was misrepresentation by P in the way that has been alleged, 
generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available evidence, that P 
made false statements of fact when selling the holiday package. In other words, that they 
told Mr E something that wasnt true in relation to the allegation raised. I would also need to 
be satisfied that any misrepresentation was material in inducing Mr E to enter into the 
contract. This means I would need to be persuaded that he reasonably relied upon false 
statements when deciding to buy the holiday package.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr E was specifically told (or 
not told) about the benefits of the package he purchased. It was, however, indicated that he 
was told these things. So, Ive thought about that alongside the evidence that is available 
from the time.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement signed by Mr E at the time of the sale. Having considered 
this, I think the contract is clear that the first week (of the six) had been booked at the resort 
of Mr Es choice. But the contract is also clear that the following five weeks could be taken in 
any establishment provided by the supplier (or the associated booking agent). Based upon 
this, Im not persuaded that P told Mr E that he was guaranteed to be able to secure booking 
at the same resort each time.
Further, the contract clearly states that accommodation will be subject to availability at all 
times. All of this information was detailed on the front page of the contract which was signed 
at the bottom by Mr E. Further, page 4 of the contract headed Statement of Liability 
includes the point, I/we have been informed that said accommodation is subject to 
availability. 
So, while I acknowledge Mr Es desire to make bookings for the same resort each time, I 
cant fairly conclude that P was under any contractual obligation to ensure he could achieve 
that. And given the contract remained valid and live at the time of his dispute, I think Mr E 
remained free to make bookings at any other resort offered (subject to availability) 
throughout the remaining term.
Given my findings above, Ive not seen anything that persuades me the contract was 
misrepresented to Mr E by P in the manner alleged. And I also havent seen anything that 
demonstrates P failed to deliver anything they were contractually obliged to.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I think Halifax couldve been clearer in explaining their process 
relating to chargebacks more clearly. Particularly in relation to the initial refund and its 
reversal. Because of that, I will be asking Halifax to pay Mr E £100 to reflect any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I recognise that Mr E clearly believes that what he received wasnt what was represented to 
him by P. While I appreciated he will be very disappointed, I havent found anything in the 
evidence provided to support any allegation of misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
Because of that, I dont think Halifaxs decision to decline his S75 claim was ultimately unfair 
or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Es complaint in part.
I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay £100 to Mr E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman