DRN-3823843
The complaint
Ms S says after TSB Bank plc debited her account in error she had to cancel her order for an 
item that was due to be delivered. The supplier charged her a £50 cancellation fee.
What happened
On 15 March 2022 TSB had a systems incident that meant many transactions that were 
made on 2 March 2022 were debited again from customers accounts in error. Ms S was due 
to pay £230.40 for an item. The duplicate payments reduced her balance to £389.93, but 
taking into account other spend on the 15 March 2022 Ms Ss balance reduced to £204.83. 
TSB fixed the error and credited Ms Ss account within 24 hours. But she says as she did not 
know what was happening on the 15th, and could not get through to TSB on the phone, she 
cancelled her order. TSB says its systems error did not cause Ms S to cancel her order  
she had access to her savings and a £100 overdraft so had sufficient funds to proceed. Ms S 
says she didnt want to use her overdraft due to the charges and the savings are her 
grandsons money.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ss complaint and said TSB should re-imburse the £50 charge 
she had to pay.  
Unhappy with this assessment TSB asked for an ombudsmans review. It said its systems 
issues did not cause Ms S to cancel her order and incur the £50 cancellation fee. There is no 
evidence of a bank error as Ms S had access to enough money to pay for the goods via her 
current account, overdraft facility or her savings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
TSB argues that Ms S was able to pay for the item on 15 March 2022. And whilst I agree 
that Ms S had access to sufficient funds, I think TSB is overlooking the impact its systems 
error had on her confidence that she had the money she had planned to use available. 
When Ms S noticed the duplicate debits she was unable to get through to the bank to find 
out what had happened. 
It is wholly understandable that the phone lines would have been very busy given the scale 
of the systems issue. But equally I think TSB has to recognise that this means Ms S was left 
uncertain as to what had happened, and more critically when it would be resolved. I can see 
why in these circumstances she took the decision to cancel an order for a high value item. I 
accept, as TSB argues, she didnt technically have to but I dont think it is fair to say TSBs 
systems error was unrelated to her decision in the moment. On the contrary I find her 
testimony credible that it was the sole trigger for her decision. And my role is not to judge 
whether she made the right decision. Ms S later went on to re-arrange the delivery and pay 
for the item so it is clear her intent to purchase had not changed. It follows I think TSB 
should cover the cost Ms S incurred.
Putting things right
TSB should credit Ms Ss account with £50 to cover the cancellation fee she was charged on 
15 March 2022.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ss complaint. TSB Bank plc must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman