DRN-3709389
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd mis-sold him a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan in 1992, causing him a financial loss. 
Mr Y has been assisted by a representative throughout his complaint, but for ease of 
reference Ill refer to Mr Y only.
What happened
Mr Y began working as a teacher in September 1992. In November 1992, he was 
considering increasing his retirement provisions, and spoke with an advisor of a company 
which subsequently became part of Aviva. He was advised to take out an FSAVC plan, with 
fixed contributions of £35 per month. He continued paying this amount into this plan until 
about October 2016, when he transferred the plan to another pension provider. 
In 2021, he became aware the FSAVC may have been mis-sold to him by Avivas advisor, 
and complained to them. Aviva upheld Mr Ys complaint. They agreed there was no 
evidence their advisor had made Mr Y aware other in-house options were available at the 
time, which their advisor was required to do. 
Aviva agreed to carry out a loss assessment, on the basis they believed Mr Y would most 
likely have chosen an in-house AVC option at the time, had he been made aware. They 
calculated Mr Y had lost out by £5,705.85 (gross) and offered a redress payment after tax 
deduction of £4,849.97. But Mr Y was unhappy with this conclusion. He felt hed have likely 
chosen an added years option  where he would have paid a percentage of his salary each 
year to purchase added years that would be used to calculate his final teachers pension. 
Aviva disagreed with this, so Mr Y brought his complaint to this service. He told us why he 
felt hed have chosen added years, had he been made aware of them at the time. 
He said the cost of added years was one of the key reasons he believed its likely hed have 
chosen that option, rather than an in-house AVC. Hed committed to paying £35 per month 
(gross) into the FSAVC and explained the purchase of the maximum available added years 
would have cost much less than that. At the time Mr Y took out his FSAVC, he had 36 years 
until hed have reached his teacher scheme retirement age (60), and so only needed to 
purchase a further four years of added service to be able to receive the maximum teacher 
pension benefits available under his occupational scheme (OPS). Hed since found out the 
cost of purchasing those four additional years was just under £24 per month, and even 
allowing for a reasonably average pay increase of 2.5% each year, says it would have 
taken close to 15 years for an added years monthly payment to reach the same level as the 
FSAVC amount  so it was clearly an affordable option.
Mr Y also said the extra added years benefits would likely have persuaded him to choose 
this option, as opposed to an AVC. These benefits  inflation protection, lump-sum option, 
additional family protection (ill-health and spouse benefits)  would have been a perfect fit 
for his circumstances at the time, as a recently married man looking to start a family. And, 
added years was the best option for someone expecting pay rises over a long-term career, 
enabling maximum benefits to be achieved without the risk of fund performance. 
Mr Y also pointed out he continued to pay his regular premium for 24 years and continued 
making payments after the plan was transferred - clear evidence he was willing to commit to 
funding his extra pension provision over the long term.
Aviva said Mr Y made a clear choice to fix his payments when he took out the FSAVC, and 
he specifically avoided selecting the indexation option in the application form. They said he 
never increased his contributions to the FSAVC, suggesting a fixed contribution arrangement 
was his preferred option. They also said Mr Y chose an average risk level, suggesting he 
was prepared to experience some risk in the performance of his investment. Accordingly, 
their decision to compare his FSAVC fund performance with a similarly funded AVC policy 
was the correct methodology to use when calculating any potential loss here. 
Aviva also reiterated their agent was a tied agent, and so only needed to give generic 
information on the other available in-house options (AVC or added years). Whilst they 
accept this extended to the agent pointing out the AVC would have provided better value for 
money, and a recommendation that Mr Y should have considered both of these, it didnt 
mean their agent had to provide advice on these options or discuss them in any great detail.
One of our investigators agreed with the approach adopted by Aviva  that on the balance of 
the evidence available, including the choice Mr Y made to choose a product that didnt 
increase contributions over time, she felt it was more likely he would have chosen the in-
house AVC option at the time. 
Mr Y responded to explain he had no recollection of the advisor offering automatic increases 
when the policy was sold. And, explaining why he didnt seek to increase his contributions in 
subsequent years, Mr Y said he was too busy with his career and family. The absence of 
any automatic (or chosen) increases didnt mean he would have been averse to added 
years had he been aware of it at the time of the FSAVC sale. 
However, our investigators view remained the same. Unhappy with this, Mr Y asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its been passed to me to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva have agreed their advisor didnt provide enough information about the available 
choices in 1992, and so I dont need to make a finding about that here. Instead, the issue I 
need to consider is, essentially, would Mr Y have chosen the in-house AVC or the added 
years option in 1992 had he been made aware of the existence of these options. 
I must also be clear that I must consider this complaint based on what I think was likely to 
have happened at the time  based in part on what I know happened at that time. I cant use 
hindsight here. Mr Y has had a very successful career and is now a headteacher, and the 
benefits available under added years would now clearly be superior to those now available 
through the FSAVC he paid into (or likely an AVC). But I must assess this complaint based 
on what I think its likely Mr Y  who it appears was only two months into his teaching career 
at the time  would have done had Avivas advisor made him aware of the other options. 
But before I do that, I think it would be useful to look at what the regulations said about the 
sale of FSAVC policies at the time of the 1992 sale. The advisor who met with Mr Y was known as a tied advisor. This meant he could only recommend Aviva products. But he was 
still required to follow certain rules, set out by the regulator at that time  LAUTRO (the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code said tied advisors 
should maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, must exercise due skill, care and 
diligence in providing their services, and generally take proper account of the interests of 
investors. It added that businesses (and by extension their tied advisors) should:
- Have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme, and 
- Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question
What this meant, in practical terms, is that in addition to highlighting the benefits of the 
FSAVC policy, the tied advisor should also have known that in-house options would have 
been available to Mr Y. And the advisor would have needed to mention the generic benefits 
of those in-house options, and point Mr Y in the direction of his employer to get further 
information on these. Those options would have included an in-house AVC potentially 
offering lower charges than an FSAVC, or that added years might have been available 
under a defined benefit OPS.
But this didnt mean the advisor needed to know anything specific about Mr Ys OPS. 
Instead, we would expect the advisor to have recommended that Mr Y explored those other 
options with his OPS scheme before considering what to do. There was no obligation on 
Avivas agent to discuss the specific cost of the added years option, or the AVC, or discuss 
in any detail the specific benefits that Mr Y subsequently became aware of. This means the 
advisor didnt need to make Mr Y aware of the specific information/benefits he now knows 
existed, or the specific cost comparisons mentioned above. It would have been for Mr Y to 
make the necessary enquiries to uncover this information. 
So, what do I think Mr Y would likely have done, had he been advised of the existence of 
these other options? Ive no reason to doubt, had he been made aware of the added years 
option, hed have made the necessary enquiries to find out about their benefits. I also think it 
would have been a straightforward task to find out the cost of the added years option, and I 
think it would have been evident it was initially a cheaper one, in terms of monthly cost. 
I also think it would have been clear the monthly cost of four added years would have likely 
remained cheaper than the monthly cost of the FSAVC (or AVC) for a number of years. 
However, I dont agree its likely Mr Y would have used a notional 2.5% annual pay increase 
as a comparison here. As a newly qualified teacher, I think its likely hed have been aware 
his salary was likely to move through the teaching main pay scale (MPS) bands each year, 
and it was these bands that were generally increased by an average of 2.5% at the time  
the reality being Mr Y would, I think, have been reasonably expecting pay increases of 
between 6-10% on average in the early years of his career. 
Put another way, his likely added years contribution (as this would always have been based 
on a percentage of his salary  approximately 0.58% for each year added, so a fixed 2.32% 
per year) would likely reach the level of his FSAVC contribution within about five years, and 
not 15 as suggested, and continue to increase beyond it thereafter. But that still means Mr Y 
would have been paying less than his FSAVC (or AVC) contribution for a number of years, 
until his salary had reached just over £18,000. And having made these enquiries, hed have 
become aware of the other significant benefits associated with added years too. But also, had he made enquiries about the in-house AVC, hed have found out the costs of 
this would likely have been lower than those of the FSAVC, suggesting a better longer term 
fund performance as there were less charges/costs to pay. So, this too would have seemed 
to be a better option than the FSAVC, which Mr Y would have discovered. 
Ive also considered the illustration for the FSAVC provided by Aviva at the time, based on 
£35 per month being paid for a period of just over 35 years. The illustration is based on 
higher 13% and lower 8.5% growth  providing an estimated retirement fund of either 
£200,000 or £71,200, which were projected to generate potential annuities of £19,000 or 
£5,770.
I appreciate pension funds have not performed as anticipated in the early 1990s, and annual 
fund growth since then has been significantly lower than those early illustrations showed. But 
the illustrations at the time were based on reasonable expectations of growth at the time  
and I think its likely these would have appeared attractive to Mr Y too. 
Ive thought too about the investment risks involved. An FSAVC (or AVC) would have 
contained an element of investment risk, and with it the potential for investment growth, 
unlike the added years option which was essentially risk free. However, Mr Y said he was an 
average risk investor, so would have likely been open to some risk when looking to achieve 
investment growth. And this risk rating, given his age and the fact he was expecting to 
accrue many years service in a low-risk OPS, would seem reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I must also remain conscious of the decision Mr Y took to fix his payments when he took 
out the FSAVC plan. The FSAVC questionnaire asked a specific question relating to 
increases in contribution. At section C, Mr Y is asked to confirm how much he wishes to pay 
each month  and choses £35. This is followed by a tick-box question, which asks if Mr Y 
wished to Increase by 5% per annum. This box is left blank. 
Taken in isolation, this appears to provide a clear indication Mr Y made an active choice, at 
the time he signed the application, that he wanted the certainty of a fixed payment at that 
time. Whilst I acknowledge Mr Y says he has no recollection of being asked about premium 
increases, and the advisor may have been the one who completed the document, its clear 
Mr Y signed the document. So, I think its reasonable to conclude he was likely aware hed 
been asked about automatic premium increases at the time he signed the application, and 
he made a conscious decision not to choose this option at that time. 
I agree with Mr Y (and his representative) that this is a finely balanced case. But having 
thought very carefully about what both parties have said, Im not persuaded Ive seen 
enough evidence to suggest that Avivas conclusion and offer was unfair. I think their offer to 
provide redress based on it being likely Mr Y would have chosen the in-house AVC option 
was reasonable.
I say this for a number of reasons. I dont doubt Mr Y (assuming hed decided to make 
enquiries with his OPS) would have realised that added years had certain benefits, 
particularly the initial lower cost, and risk-free other benefits. I dont doubt hed have likely 
considered these to be appealing in themselves. But against that, Mr Y would also have 
been aware he was potentially going to accrue about 36 years in the low-risk OPS  and so 
36 years worth of these valuable benefits anyway. 
Also, the illustrations provided in the FSAVC (and so likely to be at least similar in any AVC 
illustration) would likely have compared favourably with any added years calculations given 
the expected investment growth the AVC arrangement could achieve. And added years 
required regular contributions for the entirety of the remainder of Mr Ys career, whereas an AVC would allow much more flexibility in terms of stopping and starting payments  that 
extra flexibility may have been appealing given Mr Y has told us he was looking to start a 
family at the time. 
I also cant ignore the fact Mr Y did make a clear choice that he wanted fixed payments, and 
presumably the certainty they provided. And whilst Ive been conscious not to look beyond 
what happened at the time, I think Mr Ys decision not to increase his contributions (or 
appear to engage in any discussions with any advisor about them)  when his salary would 
have significantly increased, potentially making higher payments more affordable - does 
strongly support the conclusion that a fixed contribution was what Mr Y wanted, and what 
hes likely to have chosen if presented with all of the options at the time.
So, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr Y, I wont be asking Aviva to 
redo their loss calculation on an added years basis. I think their offer to calculate the loss, 
based on Mr Y having likely chosen the money purchase in-house AVC, and as set out in 
their offer letter of 29 October 2021, is a fair one. And I think Aviva should pay that sum to 
Mr Y. 
My final decision
I require Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd to pay Mr Y £4,849.97, as calculated and 
communicated to him in their loss assessment and offer letter dated 29 October 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman