DRN-2525722
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a vehicle bought on finance with MotoNovo Finance 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr D took out a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a van in January 2020. Mr D 
says that the dealership told him theyd replace the two front tyres on the van before 
supplying it to him, but they didnt, and he had to take it back for this to be done. They also 
said theyd send him the spare key and a sat nav for the vehicle but didnt. Mr D says he 
returned to the dealership to collect the spare key, and they sent him a sat nav that wasnt 
the right one for his vehicle. 
Mr D was unhappy with returning to the dealership on a number of occasions and thought 
they might have tampered with his vehicle when changing the tyres, so when he 
experienced a problem with the brakes in April 2020, he took it to an independent garage 
and paid around £380 for the rear brake pads and discs to be replaced. 
Mr D made a complaint to MotoNovo in April 2020 about the quality of the vehicle. He asked 
to be refunded for the cost of the work on the brakes and told them that there was a noise 
coming from the rear of the vehicle, and the ABS light was on. 
MotoNovo sent Mr D a complaint response in May 2020. They said that they wouldnt be 
able to refund the cost of the work to the brakes because Mr D didnt allow them or the 
dealership an opportunity to fix these. They agreed that the fault with the ABS light and the 
noise from the rear of the vehicle would be investigated by the dealership. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr D, and thought that the resolution offered by MotoNovo was fair. He thought 
that the problem with the brakes was likely to be a wear and tear issue, and that MotoNovo 
had been fair in offering to investigate and fix the ABS light issue and the noise from the rear 
of the vehicle. 
Mr D remains unhappy with this. Hes lost faith in the dealership and doesnt want to return 
the vehicle to them to investigate. Hed like to have the work completed himself and be 
refunded for it. Mr D also told our investigator that hed stopped making his monthly 
repayments because hed had problems with the vehicle, and this has affected his credit 
rating. Mr D said hed take the vehicle back to the dealership for them to look at the 
outstanding problems if MotoNovo remove any adverse payment history from his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MotoNovo as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. If this 
implied term is breached, then a consumer is entitled to have things put right by the supplier.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car, will include 
things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability.
Here, the vehicle was acquired used with a cash price of around £8,000. It was four years 
old and had travelled approximately 36,000 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, I 
think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the vehicle might 
have already suffered notable wear and tear, and that theres a greater risk that the vehicle 
might need some repairs or maintenance, sooner than a vehicle that wasnt as road worn 
when it was supplied. 
Its not clear exactly why the two front tyres needed to be replaced, but this was completed 
at no cost to Mr D, so Im satisfied that this has been resolved. 
I understand that it was frustrating for Mr D to need to contact the dealership about the spare 
key and the sat nav, but I dont think MotoNovo are responsible for these items. I havent 
seen any evidence that the sat nav was part of the vehicle when sold or that it was included 
as part of the hire purchase agreement between Mr D and MotoNovo. 
Mr D has provided the repair invoice relating to the brakes, which confirms that two brake 
pads and discs were replaced. The invoice doesnt set out why they needed to be replaced. 
Mr D had travelled some 4,000 miles before he needed to have the brakes looked at. The 
brake pads and discs are consumable items, and I dont think its unreasonable for a vehicle 
which had travelled approximately 40,000 miles to need to have the brake pads or discs 
replaced. On balance, I find that this was a result of normal wear and tear, rather than an 
inherent problem with the vehicle or any damage caused by the dealership that supplied it. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr D is responsible for the cost of this repair as part of the normal 
maintenance of the vehicle. 
Mr D has experienced problems with the ABS light, and a noise from the rear of the vehicle. 
MotoNovo have offered to investigate these items, but Mr D has said he wants to have them 
repaired independently and be refunded for it. 
I havent seen any evidence that the ABS light or noise has been investigated, but MotoNovo 
accepted that there was a fault with the vehicle in its complaint response to Mr D, and 
agreed that the supplying dealership would rectify this. 
As there isnt any dispute about whether there is a fault, Ive thought about whether 
MotoNovos offer is fair. 
Repair is a remedy which is provided under the consumer rights act, provided that it can be 
completed in a reasonable amount of time, and without undue inconvenience to the 
consumer. From the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely that a repair can be carried out on 
this occasion. The supplying dealership have agreed to remedy the fault with Mr Ds vehicle, and I havent seen any evidence that suggests that this would take a significant amount of 
time, or that it wouldnt be long lasting. 
Whilst I appreciate that encountering any problem with a vehicle is a frustrating experience, I 
think its fair that MotoNovo are given the opportunity to repair any fault with the vehicle. So, I 
find that the offer theyve made to resolve the complaint is fair, and I wont be asking them to 
do anything more on this occasion. 
Mr D is unhappy that MotoNovo have recorded his missed payments on his credit file. I 
understand that Mr D stopped making his monthly payments because of the problems he 
experienced with the vehicle. It is up to Mr D if he wants to stop making repayments, but I 
cant say that MotoNovo have been unfair in recording missed payments if they havent been 
paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limiteds existing 
offer to repair the fault with the ABS system and the noise is a fair way to resolve the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman