DRN-2445553
The complaint
Mr P complains that FCE Bank plc trading as Ford Credit (FCE) wont replace his car but will 
only let him reject it. He would like it replaced.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons:-
I think FCE were right to allow Mr P to reject his car after it took several attempts to 
repair it. We wouldnt normally expect faults to be present in a new car or for it to take 
several attempts at repair.
Mr P would like the car replaced instead of rejecting it.  He is concerned about the 
amount of time it will take to get a new car and the potential hire costs in the 
meantime. I appreciate Mr Ps concerns. I accept there will be a cost in hiring a car, if 
this is what Mr P must, do until he sources a new car, but he would have incurred 
costs had he either kept the car or replaced it.
It can be difficult for a business to find an exact match for a car in terms of age, 
mileage and condition so I think it was reasonable of FCE to offer rejection rather 
than replacement. I dont think it was wrong to do so.
I dont agree Mr P should have a full refund of his monthly payments. He has had use 
of the car, or of a hire car, during the term of his contract. I do appreciate however 
that the hire car wasnt a like for like replacement. I think the 10% refund of his 
monthly payments for three months as our investigator suggested to reflect this if fair. 
As is the suggestion of a payment of £300 to reflect the inconvenience to Mr P of 
dealing with faults with a new car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement FCE Bank plc 
should :-
Cancel Mr Ps agreement, collect the car at no cost to Mr P and remove any adverse 
information relating to this agreement, if any, from Mr Ps credit file
Refund Mr Ps deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund to Mr P 10% of the monthly payments Mr P  made in October, November and 
December 2019
Pay Mr P £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman