DRN-1550381
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled his insurance 
claim for his broken tablet.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B cracked the screen of his tablet and claimed on the insurance policy hed 
taken out with D&G. It repaired his device but a few weeks later, the screen stopped 
working. Mr B phoned D&G and was told the tablet needed to be repaired under its 
manufacturers warranty. He was told this might be arranged through the manufacturer or 
through the business who sold him the device and the insurance (the seller). D&G then 
transferred his call through to the seller.
Mr B says the seller told him to contact the manufacturer and arrange to have the device 
repaired. So, he did this, taking time off work to visit a store. But was then told that because 
D&G had previously replaced the screen, his warranty was voided. The manufacturer told 
Mr B that his tablet screen shouldnt ever be repaired - the entire tablet should be replaced.
So, Mr B complained to D&G that he wasnt told this and asked it to replace his device. 
When speaking with D&G about his complaint, Mr B also felt one particular call handler had 
a poor attitude and was unhelpful. So, he complained about this too.
D&G upheld his complaint about the call handler, agreeing the service he received wasnt 
what it would expect. It offered Mr B £10 compensation for this.
But D&G didnt uphold his complaint about the tablet. It advised Mr B it would only replace 
the tablet if it couldnt repair it. It said his warranty was voided at the point he cracked the 
screen and wasnt voided by D&G. It told Mr B it takes over responsibility for any electrical or 
mechanical issues during the manufacturers guarantee period following a repair.
Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He felt he should be 
compensated for the poor service, his time and the fuel costs for his unnecessary visit to the 
manufacturers store.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. They found he shouldve been told that his initial 
repair for the screen crack would void his warranty. They felt hed been given poor advice 
and that the screen fault was likely linked to the recent screen replacement. They asked 
D&G to replace Mr Bs tablet and pay him £50 compensation.
Mr B didnt accept this outcome, explaining the seller had since replaced the tablet. 
He wanted £200 compensation instead. So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than 
the investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with D&G and Mr B so both had 
the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional 
findings were:What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr B also contacted the seller in relation to this claim. And hes raised concerns 
about the information provided, what he was told when the insurance was sold to him and 
the loss of access to a product he was paying for on finance. Our investigator told Mr B has 
he can complain about these concerns if he wishes, but these matters will be dealt with 
separately against the appropriate business. And so, I wont be commenting any further on 
these issues here.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that his warranty was voided without his knowledge at the 
point the cracked screen was repaired. So, Ive considered this first.
Everyone agrees there would be no way of fixing the original cracked tablet screen without 
voiding the warranty. This is because this type of damage wasnt covered by the warranty 
and the manufacturer wont cover a device thats been repaired in this way.
So, Ive thought about Mr Bs suggestion that D&G should have replaced the tablet and not 
repaired it. Replacing the tablet was an option according to his policy terms and conditions. 
And I agree with Mr B, that had he been provided with a brand new tablet, it would have 
been covered by the manufacturers warranty, so he wouldnt have lost out in the same way. 
But I can see from the terms and conditions of his insurance policy, that D&G could replace 
the tablet with a refurbished model or a different type of tablet. So, I think its likely theyd 
have done this. And so even if D&G had agreed to replace the tablet, I think this would have 
been with a refurbished one and this would still have removed any warranty.
Im aware Mr B has raised some concerns about the advice he received from his 
manufacturer, which is that the tablet shouldnt be repaired. I can understand why Mr B is 
concerned by the difference between this advice and D&Gs approach. But its clear from the 
terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy that repairing the faulty item is an option open to D&G. 
And this is a decision that D&G can take as a business, and I would only say this was 
unreasonable if the repairs didnt work.
But the evidence indicates that his tablet did work. I appreciate that a few weeks later his 
screen became unresponsive. But Ive had no evidence from either Mr B or D&G as to the 
cause of this. And whilst its possible there was a link, without a recurring responsiveness 
issue, I dont think its unreasonable for D&G to ask to repair the tablet. So, I dont think 
theyve done anything wrong here, either in repairing the initial cracked screen or offering to 
repair the unresponsive screen.
And I do think Mr B would have claimed for his cracked screen even if hed been told hed 
lose his warranty. Because Ive seen no evidence, he had any other option aside from 
replacing the tablet.
Im aware Mr B has told us he would have chosen a different type of insurance had he 
known about the impact on his warranty, but again this is a complaint against the seller and 
not D&G. So, I wont comment on this any further here.
But I agree with Mr B that theres no evidence to suggest Mr B was told his warranty would 
be void at the point of repair. Nor was he told that because of the repair, D&G would now 
insure him for electrical and mechanical issues. And I think he should have been told this, so 
he understood his rights and cover. Particularly given that if hed cancelled his insurance at 
any point, hed have lost out because D&G would only provide mechanical cover whilst he maintained his insurance with them. And Mr B wouldnt have realised this. So, I dont think 
D&G acted fairly here.
So, Ive then considered the impact of this poor communication. I appreciate Mr Bs 
concerns that, for example, he now cannot sell the tablet with a warranty and that if he wants 
to keep this mechanical cover, he must stay with insured with D&G. But I dont think this is a 
direct consequence of D&Gs mistake, but rather a consequence of having damaged the 
tablet.
However, when Mr B called D&G a few weeks later because his tablet was unresponsive, I 
dont think he should have been told it would be dealt with under his warranty. Its clear that 
this was incorrect because the earlier repair had invalidated the warranty. And I think D&G 
had a responsibility to provide Mr B with the correct information and support. So, whilst Im 
aware D&G werent the business who told Mr B to visit the manufacturer, I think they were 
ultimately responsible for his visit to the store. Because they advised him that this would be 
dealt with under warranty.
Mr B told us that he had to take a half day off work and drive to the manufacturers store and 
back. He said he was embarrassed in store and then spent time on the phone to D&G over 
the next few days raising his concerns. I think its clear this error caused Mr B some 
inconvenience and upset.
Im also aware that D&G upheld Mr Bs complaint about the way a call handler spoke to him 
and awarded him £10 compensation for the upset caused. Having listened to the call I also 
agree that this conversation could have been handled better.  
Taking all of this into account, I think a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is that 
D&G pay Mr B a further £140 (so £150 in total including the £10 that D&G has already 
offered to pay Mr B) to compensate him for his travel costs and the inconvenience and upset 
caused.
Response to my provisional findings
D&G didnt add anything to the evidence they'd already provided. And Mr B accepted my 
provisional decision.
So Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Im not persuaded to 
change my findings.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I partially uphold this complaint. And I direct Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr B £150 compensation in total.
Im aware Domestic & General Insurance Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr B £10. My 
decision is that Domestic & General Insurance Plc should pay Mr B the £10 if it already 
hasnt done so, and a further £140.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman