DRN-4019961
The complaint
Mr N has complained about his experience when using the banking app for his account with 
The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op).
What happened
Mr N registered for The Co-ops banking app. He wanted to use biometric authentication so 
that he could log into his account via his fingerprint. The Co-ops guide stated that Mr N 
would need to go to login settings, but he says when he looked for this, it was not available. 
After Mr N logged out and back in, the setting became available.
Mr N complained that The Co-ops guide was not sufficiently clear. He asked that it be made 
clearer. The Co-op initially treated this as feedback, and passed it to its development team. 
Mr N responded that this was a complaint, and he described the registration process as 
confusing. He asked that The Co-op pay him £30 for worry and upset he had been caused 
as a result of having to contact the bank several times, and for the fact his dissatisfaction 
had not initially been treated as a complaint.
The Co-op responded to state that it did not consider it had made an error. Mr N brought a 
complaint to this service, stating that maintaining good and accurate information is essential 
for both the customer and the business. He asked that The Co-op apologise for not initially 
acknowledging his complaint, rectify errors on its app, pay £30 compensation for trouble and 
upset, and cover his postage and printing costs in lodging the complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She didnt consider The Co-ops information 
regarding how to enable biometric login was incorrect. In terms of any inconvenience Mr N 
may have experienced in this matter, her view was that it wasnt above the level that can be 
expected in day to day life.
In terms of the events that had occurred, the investigator highlighted that at the time he set 
up the banking app, Mr N was not registered with The Co-ops online banking. That had to 
be done before the app could be used, and so Mr N was redirected to The Co-ops website. 
The investigator considered it was likely that when Mr N was attempting to set up the 
biometric login, he was still on The Co-ops website. She noted that he had said when he 
had logged out and back in again, he was on the app and able to set the biometric login.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators findings. He commented that he still believes the 
information on The Co-ops website is incorrect. He referred to an internet link from The Co-
op which said there was a Login Settings option within My Settings. When he accessed 
My Settings, Mr N said this option was not there. Mr N also said that the investigators 
comment that everyone can be inconvenienced at times in daily life suggested she accepted 
that there was an issue with The Co-ops biometric login information.
In terms of rectifying the issue by logging out and back into the app, Mr N said that this 
solution was not shown on The Co-ops website support pages. That is why he had said that 
the information on the banks website was not accurate. In terms of The Co-ops failure to 
initially acknowledge his correspondence as a complaint, Mr N said that the bank had 
breached Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. He said that The Co-op made a mistake 
by initially viewing his comments as feedback.
The investigator confirmed she had considered the internet link Mr N had provided, but this 
link referred to what to do when on the banking app. Her view was that when Mr N was 
unable to arrange the biometric login, he was on The Co-ops website, registering for online 
banking. As such, she didnt consider the information on the internet link was incorrect. The 
investigator explained that because she didnt consider The Co-ops website information was 
incorrect, she hadnt proposed compensation for inconvenience, even if Mr N felt he had 
been inconvenienced.
The investigator highlighted to Mr N that there was information on The Co-ops website 
which explains that restarting the app can fix problems relating to logging in to it. She noted 
that the acknowledgement of Mr Ns complaint had only been delayed by a few days, and 
she considered the impact of this to be minimal. 
Mr N did not agree that hed been diverted from the app to The Co-ops website when 
registering. He stated that nothing in The Co-ops submissions indicated this was the case. 
From the screenshots hed kept of The Co-ops registration process, he said it was clear he 
was still in the app (although he commented it had a website look and feel).
Mr N asked that the ombudsman consider the worry, upset and inconvenience The Co-ops 
information had caused him, together with what he described as below par complaint 
handling. He said that he had not seen before The Co-op website link that the investigator 
had sent him explaining about restarting the app to fix login issues. He suggested that The 
Co-op should have provided this link to him, either when helping him with the biometric set 
up, or during the complaint process. Mr N felt that by initially registering his complaint as 
feedback, The Co-op had unnecessarily taken up his time, and had attempted to shrug off a 
genuine concern as insignificant. Mr N summarised one of his key issues being that the 
setting to allow him to set up the biometric login was not available from the start.
Mr N then forwarded the screenshots hed kept of The Co-ops registration process. Via the 
times on the screenshots, he highlighted the time at which his registration was completed, 
whereby he could see his bank balance. He also drew attention to the time that he accessed 
a message about his preference to receive paperless statements. Mr N explained that he 
tends to enable biometric login soon after logging in to an app, and he said he did that on 
this occasion. He said he was unable to locate the relevant setting within The Co-ops app, 
leading him to search the internet and The Co-ops website.
Just over half an hour after having registered, Mr N contacted The Co-ops support team to 
ask how to enable biometric login. Having received a response from The Co-op, Mr N tried 
to locate the relevant settings but was unable to do so. He says he logged out, while still 
using the app - he did not close the app itself and reopen it. When he logged in again, the 
setting to enable biometric login had appeared, and he was able to set his preference.
Referring to the timestamps on the screenshots to demonstrate when he started the 
registration process, up to the time when he messaged The Co-op for support, Mr N said 
that the inconvenience he had experienced could not be classified as minor. He described 
The Co-ops response as less than useful. In Mr Ns view the problems he encountered 
could have been avoided had there been adequate testing by The Co-op of its app, and/or 
better information available through a web page.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr N remains dissatisfied with the events that occurred when he tried to set up 
biometric login on The Co-ops app. He says he was caused unnecessary upset and 
inconvenience, and he has explained the various actions he would like The Co-op to be 
required to take. My role when determining this complaint is to decide whether The Co-op 
has been at fault in this regard.
Its agreed that in order to use the app, it was necessary for Mr N to register for online 
banking. Mr N states that he registered within the app, whilst The Co-op has said that this 
was carried out on its website. I thank Mr N for providing the screenshots he has relating to 
the registration process. He has conceded that the registration screens had a website feel. I 
would agree that thats the case.
The Co-ops digital team has stated that where a customer is registering for the app, but is 
not yet registered for online banking, they are taken out of the app and diverted to online 
banking to register. It has also stated that the interface will look like the customer is still 
within the app. On the balance of evidence provided, my view is that the registration for 
online banking occurred on The Co-ops website. Once that registration had been 
completed, Mr N was then able to continue the app registration.
Mr N considers the information provided by The Co-op in relation to setting up biometric 
login was not clear. He has highlighted a link from The Co-op referring to where to find this 
option, but says that when he looked it was not there. He has explained that he took time 
searching the internet and The Co-ops website to find an answer, but unable to do so, 
contacted The Co-ops support team. Later he logged out while still using the app, logged 
back in again, and found the biometric login setting had appeared.
Our investigator found information on The Co-ops website which explains that restarting the 
app can fix login related problems. Mr N has stated that The Co-op ought to have provided 
that link to him either when he contacted the support team, or when it was responding to his 
complaint. I acknowledge the point that Mr N has made, but overall it seems to me that The 
Co-op had made available, via its website, information that assisted Mr N to set up the 
biometric login feature on its app. Mr N seems to accept that this particular website 
information would have been helpful for him, and it is unfortunate that he did not find it when 
looking at The Co-ops website.
Overall, Im not persuaded that The Co-ops information regarding setting up biometric login 
was unclear, as Mr N has suggested. In the absence of finding The Co-op to be at fault in 
this matter, it would not be fair to require it to pay Mr N compensation, or cover his postage 
and printing costs.
Mr N has highlighted that The Co-op did not initially acknowledge his dissatisfaction with its 
app as a complaint, but instead treated this as feedback. He has described The Co-ops 
complaint handling as below par. I should explain that a complaint purely about the 
complaint handling of a firm is not a complaint about a financial service, and so would not fall 
within the jurisdiction of this service. However, I can consider a complaint where the subject 
matter is about an underlying financial service.
The crux of Mr Ns case relates to his dissatisfaction with setting up biometric login on The 
Co-ops app, and the information that was made available about this. These issues 
constitute a complaint relating to a financial service. A complaint that related solely to a firm 
not initially registering a consumers dissatisfaction as a complaint would not be something 
this service has the power to consider, as it would relate to the complaint handling of a firm. Taking this into account, I have considered in general the service Mr N received from The 
Co-op when setting up its banking app, and the information that it provided to him.
My conclusion is that the information provided by The Co-op about its banking app was 
sufficiently clear. I also consider the service that The Co-op provided to Mr N was of an 
acceptable standard. I appreciate that Mr N feels The Co-op caused him a significant degree 
of upset, and of inconvenience. But overall, even if I were to conclude that The Co-op could 
have handled Mr Ns enquiries about the app better, my view is that the degree of  
inconvenience Mr N experienced was not so material to merit a payment of compensation. In 
summary, I do not consider that The Co-op should be required to take any further actions in 
this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman