DRN-3616208
The complaint
Mr F has complained Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his 
claims under The Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr F is represented in his claim by a third party. I will refer to only him throughout for ease.
What happened
Mr F and his wife first bought a fixed-week timeshare in 1998. This was then converted into 
points in 2001 when they paid an additional £448. They made regular use of their points.  
These points were now supplied by D.
After being invited to an update meeting in 2016, Mr and Mrs F bought an additional 6,000 
timeshare points from D for £5,520. Mr F financed this purchase by taking out a fixed-sum 
loan agreement with Mitsubishi for the full amount.
In 2020 Mr F submitted claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
that the sale had been misrepresented and that he was subject to an unfair relationship. 
Mitsubishi didnt respond within a reasonable time period so Mr F brought his complaint to 
the ombudsman service.
He remained dissatisfied with Mitsubishis response of October 2020 rejecting his claims. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Mr F and Mitsubishi. He didnt think 
D had treated Mr F unfairly or misrepresented the sale to his.
Mr F remains unhappy and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr F 
paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the 
creditor can also be held responsible. There are other conditions which need to be met but 
nothing specific which applies in Mr Fs case.
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act allows a court to determine whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the creditor (Mitsubishi in this case) and the debtor (Mr F) 
because of any of the terms of the credit agreement or of any related agreement; the way 
the creditor has enforced their rights under the credit agreement; or any other thing done by 
(or on behalf of) the creditor before or after the making of the credit agreement. 
Mr F paid for his timeshare points with D using a fixed-sum credit agreement with Mitsubishi. 
Its worth clarifying only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between 
Mr F and Mitsubishi was unfair for the purpose of section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I 
have to consider it if it applies to the credit agreement taken out in 2016. 
Mr F attended a sales briefing with his wife with D in February 2016. Whilst there he bought 
a further 6,000 points. He was told these additional points would be suitable for him.
The main aspect of Mr Fs claim is that the sale was misrepresented to him. Hes also told us 
he felt the sale was conducted in a high-pressure environment and he wasnt informed of his 
rights to cancel the transaction. 
He specifically says that:
He was told his existing points meant that he was trapped in perpetuity in his 
arrangement with D, and that his children would become liable if they died. Buying 
additional points would allow him to retire from their membership.
He was told the next tier of membership (silver) would allow Mr and Mrs F to access 
better holidays.
He was told buying additional points would allow him and his wife access to Ds 
properties that were exclusive to members.
The timeshare points were described as an investment.
It wasnt clear that management costs would rise considerably over the forthcoming 
period.
I note other points of concern were raised about the sale. Im not required to go through 
every aspect of Mr Fs complaint in detail. I can reassure him Ive considered all the points 
that have been raised. However I have concentrated on the main aspects which impact the 
decision I am making. Its worth stating that Mr F hasnt provided any detail about what 
happened during the sale which has been backed up by other evidence.
Was the sale misrepresented to Mr F?
When we consider cases of misrepresentation, we look at both whether the statements were 
made and whether they were false, and that then this information was relied upon by Mr F.
Mr F has said he was told in 2015  although its unclear by whom  that D was taking an 
aggressive attitude about the existing timeshare contracts. This meant they  or their 
children  were liable in perpetuity. I find it odd that Mr F took no steps to check the veracity 
of this statement with D. And then during the sales meeting in 2016 when he tells us he 
found out our information was correct, he took steps to purchase further points to avoid this 
being the case. 
Mr F has said he was clearly told hed be stuck with those points unless he bought more. I 
have reviewed Mr Fs testimony and can see he was aware of his age and changing employment status. If the future liability, he believed he may have, was so important to him  
and hes told us this was  Id have expected him to explicitly check this was the case. The 
written evidence shows D had an existing exit policy to allow members to release their points 
and any management charges. 
According to the evidence given to us by Mitsubishi theres nothing to show Mr F flagged this 
as a concern and enquired about the future of his membership. If hed done so, I think its 
more than likely hed have been informed about his relinquishment rights. Although Mr Fs 
representative has said Mr F has provided detailed testimony on this aspect, I dont believe 
thats the case and think what hed told us is vague overall.
I acknowledge the possibility that the information provision may not have been good enough 
during the session Mr F attended. But Ive seen nothing to suggest the written evidence 
cannot be relied upon. 
In addition Mr F believes he was misled about the benefit of the points he bought in 2016. 
Again there is limited testimony from Mr F to substantiate his claims. And those claims arent 
supported by the point of sales documents.
I also think theres a mismatch between what Mr F has told us. Specifically hes said he only 
bought more points as he could get rid of them when he was 75. But hes also said these 
points made his membership more valuable and was concerned about the lack of exclusivity 
at resorts. His initial complaint to Mitsubishi also included the cost of his maintenance fees. 
So Mr Fs motivation about buying additional points is unclear so I think its not fair and 
reasonable to say he could have relied on any information he was told.
The documentation states Mr F noted the purchase of the timeshare points should not be 
considered as an investment. His allegation that the timeshare points were described as an 
investment is therefore difficult to square with this disclaimer. Ive also not seen any detailed 
testimony to back up Mr Fs belief this is what he was told.
Overall Im satisfied theres insufficient evidence D misrepresented the sale of 6,000 points 
to Mr F. Therefore I cant say this played an important role in Mr F deciding to purchase the 
points. I dont believe Mitsubishi acted unfairly in rejecting Mr Fs section 75 claim.
Was Mr F subject to an unfair relationship with Mitsubishi?
Its certainly true that in any financial relationship between a debtor (Mr F in this case) and 
creditor (Mitsubishi), the creditor holds a generally dominant position. However that in itself 
doesnt make the relationship between the two parties unfair.
In Mr Fs case, I have reviewed the contractual terms and whether the actions of D would 
lead a court to find the relationship was unfair. Im not persuaded a court would on this 
occasion.
The evidence shows Mr and Mrs F made considerable use of their additional points 
throughout 2016 to 2019. Its certainly the case that the sites they visited were not exclusive 
to members alone. However Ive not seen any evidence why this aspect alone would mean 
Mr F was subject to an unfair relationship with Mitsubishi.
I believe issues about management costs fall under this category. But the information Ive 
seen that would have been provided at point of sale confirms the management charge 
wasnt capped or linked to inflation. This means these charges could always rise in line with 
actual management expenditure. Some years that may be much higher than others. 
Obviously as Mr F was buying more points, I believe he should have been aware that his management costs would rise accordingly.
I therefore cant see any evidence of detriment given the nature of the allegations in question 
along with the facts and circumstances of this complaint. Overall I believe Mitsubishi acted 
fairly in rejecting Mr Fs claim under section 140A.
Unaffordable lending
Mitsubishi has shown us they were able to consider aspects of Mr Fs income and 
expenditure at the time they assessed his application for credit. There were no indicators 
from what they reviewed  including Mr Fs income, as well as his potential outgoings  that 
Mr F was unable to afford this additional financial commitment of £85.60 a month.
Ive therefore seen insufficient evidence to show this lending was unaffordable. 
Having considered all the evidence presented to our service, I wont be asking Mitsubishi to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against Mitsubishi 
HC Capital UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman