DRN-3642971
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In October 2021, Mr W received payments into his Monzo account. Monzo subsequently 
received a fraud notification from a third-party bank saying that one of its customers had 
been scammed into making payments from their account to Mr W. 
As result of this Monzo carried out an investigation. The result of which saw it write to Mr W 
and inform him that it would be closing his account with immediate effect. It then went on to 
register a fraud prevention marker against him. 
After learning that Monzo had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him, Mr W 
complained to Monzo. Monzo looked at Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr W 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
enough to show that Mr W was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Mr W. Monzo didnt respond so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr W is guilty of a fraud or financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Mr Ws account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr W was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr W allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ws complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ws account and that he was complicit in this. 
Its important to note Monzo had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to 
have acted fairly and reasonably. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ws 
account in October 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr W was complicit in allowing his account to receive the 
illegitimate payment. 
Mr W has explained that he was led to believe that the payment was to help a friend who 
was unable to access the funds for an order as they were out of the country. And he was 
supposed to transfer these funds using crypto-currency so that his friend could fulfil her 
order. Mr W has supplied extensive evidence, which has since been sent to Monzo to 
support his version of events. 
Monzo appears to be relying solely on the fact that the funds were obtained fraudulently in 
support of its decision to record a fraud marker. Rather bizarrely, it has chosen to do this 
even though its latest response appears to accept that Mr W wasnt complicit in the fraud. 
More importantly it is Monzos responsibility to demonstrate that Mr W was knowingly 
involved in fraudulent activity. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Monzo needs to 
have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. In 
other words, a reasonable suspicion that Mr W was complicit in fraudulent activity. 
Simply pointing out that it received a report that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ws account just 
isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing as Mr W has 
provided a significant amount of evidence to show that he was also duped by the instigator 
of the fraud. Furthermore, there isnt any evidence indicating that Mr W made a financial gain 
either as the fraudulent funds in question were transferred elsewhere. And I would question 
why Mr W would knowingly participate in a fraud that he wouldnt benefit from. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo didnt (and still doesnt) 
have sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr W was involved in fraudulent activity. As this 
is the case, I think that it was unfair for Monzo Bank to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. So Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Monzo needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Mr W and also 
pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should 
remove any fraud markers it has recorded against Mr W and pay him £100 in compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman