DRN-2891372
The complaint
Ms S says that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as the Woolwich Equitable Building Society, 
mis-sold her life assurance cover when she started a personal pension plan.
What happened
In 1989 Ms S completed an application to join the Scottish Widows Pensionbuilder Plan. At 
the same time she contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). 
This meant in addition to her contributions, which attracted tax relief, she also received a 
rebate on her national insurance payments from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). When 
her personal pension was set-up Ms S also took out life assurance cover of £50,000.
Ms S has brought two linked complaints to this Service about what happened in 1989. One 
is about Scottish Widows and the premiums charged for her life assurance cover and 
whether it acted fairly, considering matters such as the relevant terms and conditions of the 
policy. This is being dealt with as a separate case.
My decision is about the initial transaction between Barclays and Ms S which led to her 
pension and life assurance policy being established.
I note Ms S has expressed her complaint in relatively narrow but clear terms. Its the life 
assurance element of her policy and what happened to the premiums which has given rise to 
her concern. In its cover submission to this Service, Barclays also focussed on addressing 
this matter. So, for the avoidance of doubt, thats the scope of my decision.
Ms S told this Service:
At inception the premium for the pension and the life assurance were shown as one 
payment in SW's systems but from November 1990 they were separated out - initially £20 
for the pension and £2.50 for the life cover. The life assurance premium rose relatively 
modestly to £2.81 in February 1996 but then rose steadily and sometimes very sharply over 
the years, reaching a peak of £33 (i.e. 1.5x the amount that was going into the pension) in 
February 2019.
Following a review of its mortality assumptions, in March 2019 Scottish Widows reduced Ms 
Ss life assurance premiums to £13.66 per month. She says this steep fall together with the 
fact that the policy was approaching maturity caused her to reflect on the scale of her 
premiums over the lifetime of her plan.
In telling us about her complaint, Ms S said:
The SW Pensionbuilder Plan was essentially an extremely expensive life assurance policy 
masquerading opaquely as a pension policy - 'Pensionbuilder' was clearly a misnomer as 
the only thing that was building was the premiums payable to SW (the actual investment 
performance of the plan incidentally was woeful but that is a risk I understood and therefore 
not the subject of my complaint). There can be no justification for the grossly uncompetitive 
and punitively expensive amounts I was charged over the life of this policy nor for selling it to 
me when far better options were clearly available.
While Barclays made an offer to Ms S for the poor handling of her case, it didnt uphold her 
complaint. It responded to her main argument in June 2020 by saying:
You have advised that you were not sufficiently informed that the cost of life cover would 
increase each year and until it was almost the same as the monthly pension premium. At the 
time of the meeting you would have been provided with a brochure, which would have 
explained how the policy worked and an illustration of benefits. Once you accepted the terms 
of the policy, including the cost of the life cover, you were issued a policy. In the policy terms 
and conditions, it confirms that the cost of the life cover is reviewed annually and amended 
accordingly.
The Investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss case. She disagreed with his view and so her 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision. This is the 
last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened in 1989. Memories can and do fade. And its 
perhaps inevitable given the passage of a third of a century that I dont have perfect 
information to review. Im also mindful of the dynamic regulatory position over that time. The 
way things must be done today isnt necessarily the way things could be done 32 years ago.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
On review of Barclays final response letter to Ms S, it accepts that its adviser wouldve 
provided her with recommendations to take out the pension plan and life assurance cover. 
So, Ive proceeded on that basis.
At the time, Barclays predecessor was a member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). Its code placed certain requirement on advisers, 
including that they:
- Exercised due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors.
- Gave best advice, including giving the investor all relevant information and using 
best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks 
involved.
- Should have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position generally, to any 
rights they may have under SERPS and to use best endeavours to ensure that only 
those contracts which are suited to that investor were recommended.
Ive kept these regulatory requirements in mind when considering Ms Ss case.I cant know what was discussed between the adviser and Ms S over 30 years ago. I dont 
know what was covered, in how much depth or in what way. However, there are some 
documents available from the time. These include the application to join the Scottish Widows 
pension plan and for life assurance cover. Ive also reviewed the policy terms and conditions.
The Scottish Widows application was signed by Ms S on 30 March 1989. I can see that she 
confirmed she wasnt a member of an employers pension scheme. And that she wanted to 
contract-out of SERPS. 
Section 6 of the application form was where Ms S indicated she wanted to take out life 
assurance cover, providing a death benefit of £50,000. She ticked the box to indicate she 
wanted this in addition to the cash value of her policy. And I can see a note which said:
If the answer is yes your total contributions may increase as the cost of the benefit 
increases.
I think its more likely than not Ms S also received a members booklet. In section 3.1 of this 
it explains how the life cover premium will be calculated:
A life insurance premium will be calculated by the Society in respect of each admitted 
employee as at the date life cover is first provided in respect of the admitted employee under 
provision 7.1 and as at the first day of each subsequent month ("the calculation date") until 
the admitted employee attains his normal retiring date or retires or leaves the service of the 
employer whichever is the earliest. The amount of each such premium will be determined by 
the Society as at each calculation date having regard to the admitted employee's sex, the 
amount of the life insurance benefit at that date, the admitted employee's age next birthday 
at the beginning of the Scheme year then current and the amount of any additional premium 
required by the Society in respect of the admitted employee under provision 7.1.
Like the Investigator, Im satisfied these two documents confirmed that Ms Ss premiums for 
the life assurance cover she wanted could be varied. And that she was informed about this.
In bringing her complaint and responding to the Investigators view, Ms S has made a 
number of points Ill address further. For example:
- Ms S says if shed been properly informed about the policy, in particular the trajectory 
of the premiums, shed have taken out separate term assurance and pension 
policies.
- Ms S says she was effectively locked-in and trapped by her policy because, by the 
time the premiums started rising to levels which she couldnt fail to notice, she was 
already 15 years older. Had she terminated the policy at that point, replacement 
cover wouldve cost significantly more than it wouldve done at the outset.
- Ms S thought the Investigators reasoning could be used to exonerate any kind of 
egregious behaviour by firms. And that following his line of thought it wouldve been 
acceptable to raise her premiums to £100 per month and beyond.
I understand the arguments Ms S makes, but I dont agree with her.
Ive reviewed a schedule of the monthly premiums Ms S paid for her life cover. I can see that 
up until January 1996 this remained £2.50. There were small increases in subsequent years 
 by January 2000 it had risen to £3.21. By February 2004, after the policy had been running 
for 15 years, it had risen to £5.52. By 2009 the monthly cost was £10.34, £18.66 in 2014 
rising to £29.06 in 2018 before reducing to £13.66 in 2019.I dont think it wouldve been reasonable to have expected Barclays to have been able to set 
out the trajectory of these premiums in 1989. The level of charges was a matter for Scottish 
Widows. And it wouldve based its charging regime on several factors, including the age of 
the policy holder.
Ms S noted that she and her husband had taken out a joint 25-year term assurance policy 
for a flat premium of £10 a month at around the same time of the events complained about. 
But she was paying much less than half of this over the first 14 years of her Scottish Widows 
plan for single cover. 
Indeed given the time value of money  thats to say the value of a pound today is worth 
more today than tomorrow because of the effect of inflation  savings on premiums at the 
outset, were worth comparatively more when viewing costs over the lifetime of the policy.
Ms S has said she was on a limited budget in 1989, so minimising costs was important. I 
cant be certain, but I think its more likely than not that had she been presented with the 
option of a more expensive flat rate premium for her life assurance cover, at the time shed 
have opted for the sort of policy she ended up with, providing lower costs at the outset.
When speaking to this Service on behalf of his wife, Mr S confirmed that theyd been aware 
that after several years the premiums for Ms Ss life assurance started increasing. But that it 
wasnt until theyd exceeded £20 a month they really took note  this wouldve been around 
2015.
Ms S says she was trapped in her life assurance contract. That if shed cancelled and taken 
out another policy this wouldve been more expensive because shed have been older. This 
simply reinforces the point about how premiums are arrived at for these policies, with age 
being a key driver of cost. 
Ms Ss life assurance couldve been cancelled at any time from inception. She was aware 
her premiums were increasing, but she didnt stop her policy. I can only assume she was 
content to continue to pay for her cover.
Ms S said that the Investigators view suggested Scottish Widows couldve increased her 
premiums without limit. While my decision focuses on Barclays role in providing the initial 
advice to her, Id simply observe that as she wasnt tied to the life assurance policy, if a 
business were to adopt such an uncompetitive pricing policy its likely this wouldve led to an 
exodus of customers.
Ive not seen evidence that Barclays didnt adhere to the regulatory requirements of the time. 
On balance, I think the advice given in relation to the life assurance cover Ms S took out was 
appropriate. Information about the policy and how it worked was provided to her. The policy 
was affordable. And she had the opportunity to review the cost of cover over the years 
between inception and the plans end date. Ms S decided to maintain the life assurance 
arrangement. 
Happily Ms Ss life assurance hasnt been called upon, but shes benefitted from the peace 
of mind of knowing it wouldve been available to her beneficiaries had that been necessary.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman