DRN-3683412
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Montfort International Limited 
(Montfort) in January 2018 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both Mr C and Montfort. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr C, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr C to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Cs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 25 years and 5 months qualifying service between October 1991 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his annual 
scheme pension was £15,693. The scheme pension would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, 
once in payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £385,481.20. 
Mr C initially elected to transfer to the BSPS2. The BSPS reminded Mr C that if he was 
contemplating a pension transfer that the transfer value of £385,481.20 was guaranteed until 
26 January 2018. Mr C contacted Montfort for advice in late 2017. Following this, a fact find 
document and attitude to risk questionnaire were completed which recorded the following 
information about Mr C:
He was aged 52 and generally in good health but was concerned his health would 
deteriorate. His wife was aged 42 and in good health. They had two financially 
dependent children aged 14 and 17;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£40,000. His wife was employed as a cleaner and paid gross annual income of about 
£13,000;
Their assets comprised their marital home valued at £140,000, a second property 
valued at about £110,000 where his mother lived, Premium Bonds of about £13,000 
and cash deposits of about £2,000;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £86,000 on their marital home 
which was due to be repaid in 2031 when he was aged 65 and an interest only 
mortgage of £37,000 on the second property. They didnt have any other debts or 
liabilities;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full State pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme provided by Aviva since April 2017. The 
total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary; and
He had a Moderately Cautious risk profile and low capacity for loss.
Montfort recorded Mr Cs objectives and preferences, summarised as follows:
He wanted to finish work at age 55 and retire in the UK although he was interested in 
possibly retiring overseas at some point;
From age 55 he required annual pension income of about £15,000 (after income tax) 
in 2018 terms. He wanted the ability to control the level of income he received so he 
could spend more in the early years and then less later in retirement. When his state 
pension started he planned to reduce annual pension income drawn from other 
sources to about £8,000;If he didnt transfer away from the BSPS at that time hed opt for the BSPS2 and 
draw benefits from that scheme at age 57  and in the two years between age 55 
and 57 he would use benefits built up his Aviva DC plan to provide income.
He wanted to repay the mortgage of £86,000 on his marital home. He noted that this 
could be achieved by selling his second property. Alternatively, he could use the tax-
free cash provided by his preserved benefits in the BSPS to repay his mortgage 
which would enable him to retain the second property and use it to generate rental 
income;
In the event of his earlier death, he wanted the maximum death benefits to be paid 
to his wife and children in a tax-advantaged way; and
His preference was to invest his pension funds in line with his risk profile and risk 
capacity. He didnt intend to secure a lifetime annuity to provided retirement income.
In January 2018, Montfort issued its suitability report to Mr C recommending that he transfer 
the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS to a SIPP to achieve his objectives and to 
invest the value into a portfolio of funds to align with his Moderately Cautious risk profile. 
The following snapshot was included in the suitability report:
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial charges
£800 plus VAT for producing the suitability report
£5,000 initial adviser charge for implementing the recommendation
£120 plus VAT initial set up fee for the SIPP (waived if using Montforts Funds and 
Shares Service)
Ongoing annual charges 
0.50% advice charge
0.47% investment management charge (this was a weighted average based on 
investment across a number of underlying funds)
0.20% custody charge
£45 plus VAT quarterly administration charge (waived if using Montforts Funds and 
Shares Service)
£3.95 per online instruction to buy or sell investments
£50 plus VAT quarterly charge for off panel investments
Mr C accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the SIPP was 
completed.
This complaint
During 2021, Mr C contacted this Service to express his concern about the suitability of 
Montforts pension transfer advice. He said that he didnt think all the available options had 
been discussed with him and that he was also worried about the ongoing fees he was paying 
in connection with the management of his SIPP.
Montfort didnt uphold this complaint. In its opinion, its pension transfer advice was suitable 
because it enabled Mr C to achieve his recorded objectives. It noted that the complaint 
received was generic and provided no clear reasons why Mr C was complaining, and so in 
its final response letter it instead provided a general overview of the advice provided and 
why it believed it was suitable. It stated, in summary, that its recommendation enabled Mr C 
to achieve the following:
Protect his health from the rigors of working in the steel industry in the short-term;
Experience less stress and worry in the run up to leaving work and fully retiring;
Dictate his life planning on his own terms including having the flexibility in the level 
and timing of withdrawing benefits from his pension benefits to align with his 
requirements and enable him to phase out of employed work and into retirement;
Improve the level of benefits available to his wife on his earlier death; and
Make capital reductions to his mortgage debt without having to sell his properties and 
being debt free.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that Montforts recommendation to transfer wasnt clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Cs best interests. He noted that the critical yield figures at age 57 
indicated that there was a strong possibility Mr C would be worse off by transferring. He 
noted that Mr C had already opted to transfer to BSPS2 before Montfort advised him to 
transfer to the SIPP. Overall, he wasnt persuaded there was enough certainty around                
Mr Cs retirement plans or objectives to warrant relinquishing the guaranteed benefits 
available in the BSPS2. In his view, Mr C shouldve been advised to transfer to the BSPS2 
and preserve his benefits in that scheme until his retirement plans became clearer, at which 
point hed be able to reassess the benefits available from that scheme or consider 
transferring at that time.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Montfort carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr C opted for the 
BSPS2 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended 
that Montfort pay Mr C £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable 
recommendation.
Montfort disagreed with our investigators view and provided substantial comments in 
response, most of which repeated previous comments in its final response letter. It 
questioned our investigators competence and qualifications to be able to form a view on the 
merits of this complaint. It thought its advice was suitable because it enabled Mr C to 
achieve his objectives, particularly retiring early. It didnt believe Mr Cs objectives couldve been met by the BSPS2. It also stated that it couldnt understand how Mr C was content with 
its advice in 2018 but then complained in 2021 and suspected that a third party, possibly the 
adviser who originally advised Mr C (and who had subsequently left the employment of 
Montfort), had colluded with him in making this complaint. 
Our investigator considered Montforts additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change 
his view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Since agreement 
couldnt be reached, the investigator told Montfort and Mr C that this complaint would be 
referred to an ombudsman to review. While in the queue awaiting allocation to an 
ombudsman, our investigator wrote to Montfort and Mr C to tell them that the FCA had 
developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress due under the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme, as set out in PS22/13. And that the FCA was encouraging 
businesses to use that calculator for non-scheme cases, such as this complaint made by                          
Mr C. Our investigator stated that in the event an ombudsman upholds this complaint, 
Montfort may be directed to use the FCAs calculator.
This complaint has been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs Handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties. Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by Mr C and 
Montfort. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome. Im satisfied that Ive been provided with sufficient 
evidence to decide this complaint.
To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate headings below.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Montfort was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its 
recommendation to Mr C. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the 
rules and consider the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in 
the FCAs Handbook.
Primarily, Montfort was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr C. The 
suitability rules and guidance that applied when Montfort provided its recommendation to                
Mr C were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment 
objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements 
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Cs case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Montforts recommendation, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance applicable at the time it advised Mr C.
Mr Cs situation
The situation for Mr C wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr C. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr C had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Montfort.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr C to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr C, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr C still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Based on his age, circumstances and uncertainty about 
whether he could retire earlier than age 65 (which Ill come on to later), its my view that he 
wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF because of the higher level 
of income it would pay at that age. And I note that Mr C had already opted to transfer to the 
BSPS2 before Montfort advised him to transfer to the SIPP, which supports my view on this 
point.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Montfort shouldve started its advice 
process by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr C and to 
only recommend a transfer to the SIPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Transfer analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time Montfort advised         
Mr C. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age 
(or other selected age)  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative 
pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by 
the DB pension scheme.
The TVAS isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual circumstances and 
objectives. But TVAS has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the 
accumulated fund at retirement to provide steady, secure income. The critical yield also 
gives an indication of the value offered by the transfer value and the ability to secure 
comparable benefits on the open market. So its also useful in that regard. 
Montfort calculated the following critical yield figures for Mr C on the basis he invested in the 
SIPP it recommended:
Scheme At age 57 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cash At age 57 
based on 
taking a full 
pensionAt age 65 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cashAt age 65 
based on 
taking a full 
pension
BSPS 9.73% 13.74% 5.38% 7.09%
PPF 10.36% 11.41% 5.22% 5.76%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time 
Montfort advised Mr C that the BSPS2 would, at age 65, pay a higher level of benefits than 
the PPF but lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 likely fell 
somewhere in between the figures above.
Montforts recommendation to Mr C was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in 
its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. 
Businesses weren't required to refer to discount rates when giving pension transfer advice. 
But I consider that they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The discount 
rates we refer to are based on a typical investment spread across shares and bonds. The 
closest discount rate which I'm able to refer to and published by this Service for the period 
before October 2017 is 3% based on Mr C taking benefits at age 57 and 4% based on him 
taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr C's 
Moderately Cautious risk profile and the investment timeframe. Based on these factors, I 
think the critical yield figures above meant that it was very likely Mr C would be financially 
worse off as a result of the pension transfer regardless of when he took benefits from the 
SIPP. And it seems that Montfort agrees because in its suitability report it stated, These 
critical yields are not achievable for the expected investment returns of your moderately 
cautious risk portfolio. But then the adviser inexplicably concluded in the suitability report, In my professional opinion, unless you encounter a very adverse investment environment 
and high inflation, you could get higher pension benefits, should you transfer out. After 
considering the above points, I recommend that you transfer out of the British Steel Pension 
Scheme into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). I think this was a misleading 
statement based on the critical yield figures since all the analysis strongly indicated that                 
Mr C would be financially worse off if he transferred to the SIPP. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Cs recorded 
objectives.
Mr Cs objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr C had several objectives regarding 
his safeguarded benefits, which can be distilled into three broad areas, summarised as 
follows:
Flexibility and early retirement: He wanted the flexibility to retire early from age            
55 and, at that point, receive annual retirement income of about £15,000 (net of 
income tax) in 2018 terms. He wanted the ability to control and vary the level of 
income and envisaged reducing income from other sources once his state pension 
started at age 67;
Death benefits: He wanted to ensure that, in the event of his earlier death, that the 
maximum level of benefits be paid to his wife and children; and
Mortgage repayment: He wanted to repay the mortgage of £86,000 on his marital 
home.
I recognise that Mr Cs safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Montfort to provide expert, balanced information and advice, 
taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make 
an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Montfort was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to 
facilitate the transaction.
Flexibility and early retirement objective 
Mr Cs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 25 years and 5 months qualifying service, 
represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. His other savings 
and investments included Premium Bonds of about £13,000 and cash deposits of about 
£2,000, his Aviva DC plan and the equity available in his second property. Taking this into 
account, I think its fair to say that when the time came to retire, he and his wife would be 
heavily reliant on the value of his BSPS benefits to support their standard of living in 
retirement. Given the importance of these benefits, I think Mr C had limited capacity for loss because a reduction in the value would likely have a materially detrimental effect on his 
standard of living in retirement.
At the time of the advice Mr C was aged 52 and generally in good health but was concerned 
his health would deteriorate after working in heavy industry for over 25 years. Montfort 
recorded that he wanted to retire early from age 55 onwards and receive annual retirement 
income of about £15,000 (net of income tax) in 2018 terms. Montfort based its 
recommendation on the basis that between age 55 and 57, Mr C would use his benefits built 
up in the Aviva DC plan before drawing down on the value of his preserved benefits in the 
BSPS from age 57 onwards  it was for this reason it calculated the critical yield figures at 
age 57 so as to provide a comparison of benefits payable at that age by the SIPP compared 
to the BSPS.
The suitability report confirmed that if benefits were taken early under the BSPS (and 
similarly the BSPS2) then the income paid to Mr C would be reduced. The reduction wasnt a 
penalty but applied to reflect the fact that the scheme would need to support the income for 
longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of scheme members generally. Montfort 
calculated the following estimated benefits based on Mr C taking benefits at either age 57 or 
age 65:
Scheme Age 57 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cash At age 57 
based on 
taking a full 
pensionAt age 65 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cashAt age 65 
based on 
taking a full 
pension
BSPS £9,927 plus tax-free 
cash of £66,186£13,584 £14,031 plus tax-free 
cash of £93,543£20,360
PPF £11,003 plus tax-free 
cash of £73,215£13,205 £14,509 plus tax-free 
cash of £96,537£18,331
Montforts adviser carried out a sustainable withdrawal rate (SWR) analysis on the basis of 
Mr C investing the transfer value of £385,481.20 in the SIPP on a Moderately Cautious 
basis and taking benefits from age 57. The adviser stated:
Should you start pension benefits at a 3% SWR, you could start retirement 
withdrawals [from age 57] at £11,280 per annum assuming 1% growth or £13,110 
per annum assuming 4% growth. These are lower than what you would receive from 
the British Steel Pension Scheme. As I already explained over the phone it is unlikely 
if you transfer out to get similar pension benefits when compared with early 
retirement benefits from the New BSPS. Your pension benefits would be lower by 
between 17% and 4%.
So Montforts own analysis indicated that Mr C would be worse off if he transferred to a 
SIPP. This was mainly because if he invested on a Moderately Cautious basis, the scope 
for investment returns to replenish income withdrawals was limited.
Notwithstanding this point, Im concerned about the way in which Montfort determined Mr Cs 
early retirement objective and income need  and then went on to base its recommendation 
on this figure. I say this because its unclear how the target annual retirement income figure 
of £15,000 (net of income tax) in 2018 terms was determined or if it was realistic that he 
could retire early. It seems that the figure was a notional figure put forward by Mr C rather 
than being a proper analysis carried out by Montfort based on Mr Cs expected expenditure 
in retirement and the required income need to cover this. Theres no reference to the income need increasing in payment to counter the effects of inflation. Rather, it appears to be a fixed 
income requirement which I find concerning.
I think its clear that Mr C was attracted to a flexible arrangement. Many people want to retire 
early. But this can only happen if they have the financial means to support themselves in 
retirement. Financial planning generally involves managing client expectations and a need 
for compromises. Mr C may have wanted to retire from age 55 but it was for Montfort, as the 
expert, to establish if this was feasible, manage his expectations and help him modify his 
objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances, if necessary. The further away from 
retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish what their likely income need will be. 
And in Mr Cs case, being aged 52 at the time of the advice, I think it was sufficiently unclear 
what his circumstances would look like in three years time and beyond  and therefore what 
realistic level of income he would need and whether, in fact, he could retire early.
While I dont doubt he wouldve liked the flexibility to retire at age 55, plans can and do 
change. Mr C couldnt access the money in the SIPP until age 55 at the earliest anyway. So 
I dont think there was any need to transfer at that time, especially given the critical yield 
figures attached to the transaction and that Montforts own analysis showed that the BSPS2 
would likely provide a higher level of benefits if taken early. In my view, since benefits 
couldnt be accessed until age 55, it made the case for a pension transfer at that time  for 
the sake of achieving early retirement  more difficult to justify.  This fact alone means that 
Montfort didnt clearly demonstrate, on the evidence, that transferring was in Mr Cs best 
interests, as set out in COBS 19.1.6G. 
Transferring to the SIPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr C at that time 
for no clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2. 
Its not in dispute that Mr C required his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of 
income in retirement whenever he came to draw them. Where there is such a need its 
difficult to justify relinquishing guaranteed income in exchange for flexible income that 
doesnt have any guarantees. That is, unless the prospect of an alternatively secured 
guaranteed income, by way of a transfer and then annuity purchase, was likely to have 
produced a higher level of guaranteed income. But as illustrated above, and as also 
acknowledged by Montfort at the time of the advice, this wasnt the case here.
In conclusion, the contemporaneous evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for 
Mr C to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time.
Death benefits objective
It was recorded that Mr C wanted to ensure that, in the event of his earlier death, that the 
maximum level of benefits be paid to his wife and children. Montfort didnt explain or define 
what was meant by maximum.
The recommended SIPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under age 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after age 75 the 
benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that 
immediately following the transfer to the SIPP and for the period until Mr C withdrew 
retirement benefits, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value.Mr C was recorded as being in good health but was concerned his health would deteriorate 
due to working in heavy industry for over 25 years. Despite his concerns, I havent seen any 
evidence he had a reduced life expectancy. So he could expect life expectancy into his 80s. 
There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
Withdrawing money from the SIPP to meet his income and lump sum needs possibly from 
age 57 onwards would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when 
death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected, particularly in this case where 
the SWR analysis showed that Mr C would need to draw a high level of income (relative to 
the fund value) from his SIPP in the early years to support his standard of living.
If Mr C wanted to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then life cover couldve 
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him to maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr C had disposable income available every 
month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to achieve the death 
lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term is generally cheap and some cover 
may have been affordable for Mr C given he was aged 52 and recorded as being in good 
health. However, I cannot see evidence that Montfort adequately investigated the life cover 
option. For example, I havent seen evidence that Montfort quantified Mr Cs death lump sum 
need, over what term, how this might change over time, how it might be met by other means 
or present personalised life cover quotes to him to enable him to make an informed decision.
But, in any case, I understand that through his employment Mr C had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £160,000 
would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable 
regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a SIPP. 
In addition, the value of his Aviva DC plan would be payable to his nominated beneficiaries, 
the value of which would increase over time with 16% of his earnings being invested into that 
scheme annually.
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr C remained employed by 
Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £160,000 would be paid on his death. I think its worth 
noting that at that time the only debt Mr C and his wife had was the repayment mortgage of 
£86,000 on their marital home and interest only mortgage of £37,000 on the second 
property. 
It appears that Mr C intended to remain employed by Tata Steel until he retired, so I think its 
fair to say that there wasnt any expectation the death in service benefits would disappear in 
the foreseeable future. This leads me to conclude that there wasnt any immediate need to 
transfer at that time to provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover 
already in place while Mr C remained employed by Tata Steel. 
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr C about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr C had no health 
issues at the time Montfort advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a SIPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.
Mortgage repayment objective
At the time of the advice Mr Cs liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £86,000 on 
the marital home which was due to be repaid in 2031 when he was aged 65 and an interest only mortgage of £37,000 on the second property. He didnt have any other debts or 
liabilities.
Montfort recorded that one of Mr Cs objectives attached to the pension transfer was to 
repay the mortgage of £86,000 on his marital home early. He didnt want the loan to continue 
to the end of the term at age 65 because that didnt fit in with his plans to retire early debt 
free. It was noted that the mortgage could be repaid by selling his second property and using 
the equity this would release. But it was then occupied by Mr Cs mother and so it wasnt a 
viable option to sell it at that time. Alternatively, it was noted that he could use the tax-free 
cash provided by his preserved benefits in the BSPS which would enable him to retain the 
second property and use it to generate rental income. But he couldnt access the tax-free 
cash under his pension until at least age 55. So, that too wasnt a viable option at that time.
Mr C was employed and his salary enabled him to continue mortgage repayments until such 
time as he retired. So I dont think there was any pressing need to repay his debt at that 
time. It seems to me that Mr C would need to continue with his mortgage repayments for the 
foreseeable future.
In my view, it wouldve been sensible for Mr C to opt for the BSPS2 and then re-evaluate the 
situation when he could actually access the tax-free cash sum from age 55 onwards. In my 
view, there wasnt any clearly defined advantage in transferring at that time for the purposes 
of meeting the mortgage repayment objective.
If properly informed, would Mr C have transferred anyway?
For the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly in 
Mr Cs best interests. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Montforts advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr C, if placed in 
a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a SIPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr C, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Montfort, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr C might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns. However, 
bearing in mind that he initially opted for the BSPS2 and many other members transferred to 
the BSPS2 even though such concerns were widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack 
of investment experience, Moderately Cautious risk profile and low capacity for loss, I 
dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on transferring. Given Mr Cs reliance on 
Montfort, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a recommendation for the BSPS2 had it 
advised him to take that course of action.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Montfort to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr C wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by January 2018 the risk of 
the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent. So I think Montfort shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair to 
consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Given the timeframe, Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2018 
that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr C. And so I think, given the lack of clarity 
surrounding Mr Cs ability to retire early, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him 
based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher 
level of benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 
should be carried out. 
For clarity, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, and not at age 57, for the reasons Ive 
explained above about the uncertainty about when Mr C would retire.
Montfort must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Montfort should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress 
rather than using third party actuarial software. This is because in its  Dear CEO letter of             
19 May 2023, the FCA expressed its concerns about businesses using such software. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Montfort should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr C accepts Montforts offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Montfort may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Montfort should pay Mr C £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by its unsuitable recommendation.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Montfort International 
Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would 
additionally require Montfort International Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would 
only require Montfort International Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Montfort International Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C. 
If Mr C accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Montfort 
International Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C 
can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman