DRN-2482613
The complaint
Mr B complains that the Travel Pack he took out with Barclays Bank UK PLC in January 
2019 should have closed automatically after 12 months but it didnt, and he has been 
charged for further months.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to clarify that I accept that Mr B has not agreed to any settlement or 
compensation for his complaint, and I have not assumed this in considering his complaint.
Regarding the sale of the Tech Pack, Ive no record of the conversation that took place 
between Barclays and Mr B at the time of sale and the two parties say opposing things about 
what was discussed.
Ive looked at the literature that Mr B wouldve received at the time of sale and in my view, it 
is made clear that the account does not close automatically at any time. I think its more 
likely than not that Mr B wouldve read the welcome pack as he intended to immediately rely 
on the travel insurance. 
Barclays says none of its accounts close automatically after 12 months, and this service has 
not been aware of Barclays having said this to any other customer.
So, although I dont doubt Mr Bs honest recollections, I think its more likely that not that his 
memory is mistaken, and he wasnt told his account would close automatically after 12 
months. So, Barclays was entitled to continue charging Mr B the monthly fee after February 
2020.
I note that Barclays charged him the account fee for some months after he did ask it to close 
the account in June 2020, and Barclays has said it will pay back those fees which I think is 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman