DRN-1350343
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the fees and charges applied and the service provided by Somerset 
Bridge Insurance Services Limited (SBIS) when she cancelled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
very brief overview here. In September 2018 Mrs B took out motor insurance through SBIS 
via a comparison website. In May 2019 Mrs B contacted SBIS to cancel her policy. 
SBIS processed the cancellation and explained that a further amount of just under £100 was 
due to be paid. They explained theyd taken account of a variety of things including the time 
on cover and applicable fees and charges, as well as the premiums Mrs B had already paid 
 and that this left an outstanding amount.
Mrs B complained, she thought the charges were excessive, unfair and that they werent 
made clear to her. She was also unhappy with the way in which the outstanding amount was 
chased. SBIS responded to the complaint and apologised for any inconvenience this matter 
had caused.  But they explained that they thought the charges had been made clear at the 
start and had been applied in line with their terms. They disagreed they were excessive or 
unfair and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service, adding she was also unhappy with the time 
taken for SBIS to respond to the complaint. One of our investigators didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He thought SBIS had acted fairly in the circumstances and 
didnt think the charges were so excessive as to make them unfair. Mrs B disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain 
why. Im satisfied that SBIS fees and charges were presented in a clear manner to Mrs B at 
the start. When taking out the policy, Mrs B accepted these terms, so I dont think it is unfair 
for SBIS to rely on them when following her instruction to cancel the policy. 
Im not persuaded that the fees and charges in question are unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Ive thought carefully about the likely administrative time and costs involved 
in the charges in question. Having done so, I dont consider them to be excessive or unfair. I 
think they are within a range of what I would consider to be broadly fair and in that context, I 
think the exact level of charges is a decision that SBIS are entitled to make. Mrs B has 
pointed out that other businesses have lower charges. Ive considered this, but it doesnt 
change my thoughts that overall, I cant fairly say the charges are excessive or unfair.Ive looked at the letters SBIS sent Mrs B to request payment of the outstanding amount. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for them to send letters asking for this payment and I dont 
think anything in the letters was unfair or unreasonable. They included offers to consider a 
repayment plan if Mrs B had difficulty in repaying and I dont think the tone of the letters was 
aggressive or inappropriate.
The Financial Conduct Authority rules on complaint handling for regulated firms generally 
give them eight weeks to reply to a customers complaint. If a response isn't provided within 
that timeframe the consumer can bring their complaint to us. SBIS response came just 
outside of this timeframe. I can understand why Mrs B found this frustrating, but my role isnt 
to punish a business for making a mistake or an error. And Im not persuaded that the short 
delay had a meaningful impact on Mrs B. SBIS included an apology in their complaint 
response for any inconvenience caused. I think this is fair and I dont think SBIS need to do 
more on this point or that compensation needs to be paid in these circumstances.
Mrs B made a further point about credit card charges that might be applicable to payments 
taken by SBIS. But as Mrs B accepts she didnt pay via credit card and wasnt subject to 
those charges, it isnt something Im going to comment on further.
Overall, I dont think Mrs B has been treated unfairly by SBIS. So Im not going to tell them to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman