DRN-2870682
The complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank plc failed to transfer his ISA funds to another business as 
requested. 
What happened
Mr O had an ISA with TSB that was due to mature on 10 April 2018. In advance of that date, 
Mr O sent TSB his transfer instructions that asked it to send a portion of his funds to one 
business (V) and the remaining balance to another (N). Due to an error by TSB, the transfer 
to V was completed but the transfer to N was not. 
Mr O has told us he tried to see what had happened with his transfer and that an IT issue 
with TSBs online banking meant he couldnt see account information between 20 April 2018 
and 22 April 2018. 
The transfer was completed by TSB on 11 May 2018. Mr O went on to raise a complaint with 
TSB and has explained how stressful it was not knowing what had happened to a large 
portion of his life savings. 
TSB issued various final responses to Mr O, all of which were received outside the normal 
timescales for responding to complaints. TSB apologised that it had failed to follow Mr Os 
transfer instruction and paid a total of £89.63 to reflect his losses. TSB also paid Mr O £50 to 
cover call costs and £100 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought TSB had dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly so didnt increase the award of ask it to 
do anything else. Mr O asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has explained that the funds TSB failed to transfer represented a large portion of his 
savings and the issues raised caused him a significant level of worry. I can see the sums 
involved are large and I dont doubt how concerned Mr O was. Im pleased the failure to 
transfer Mr Os ISA funds was resolved on 11 May 2018 when the payment was sent to N.
TSB has paid a sum that covers the lost interest and Mr O has confirmed thats the case. 
Mr O has explained its the compensation for the trouble and upset caused that remains the 
issue. 
TSB paid Mr O £100 plus £50 costs to try and resolve his complaint. I accept the issue was 
stressful, especially given the IT issues TSB experienced during this time. But TSB acted on 
Mr Os transfer instruction on 11 May 2018, so the issue was resolved after a delay of a 
month. I appreciate TSB took too long to respond to Mr Os complaint, but Im satisfied he 
was aware that his savings had been transferred in May 2018. 
TSB says it experienced extensive delays responding to complaints following IT problems it 
experienced. I dont doubt the delay caused some further frustration, but I think TSB makes 
a reasonable point when it says it was dealing with a large number of unexpected 
complaints. Ive taken the delay in responding into account when reaching my decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but Im satisfied the compensation paid by TSB is fair. TSB took 
steps to cover the lost interest so theres no financial loss. And Im satisfied the additional 
£100 plus £50 costs TSB paid fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr O 
by the delays in this case. As Im satisfied TSB has dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to increase the award or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman