DRN-4213993
The complaint
Mr M complains that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited (Saxo) took too long to complete a 
pension transfer from one provider (who Ill refer to as provider A) to Saxo Capital and that 
investment positions went missing during a significant portion of the transfer process. Mr M 
says that this prevented him from making beneficial trades and has therefore resulted in 
investment losses.
Saxo acknowledged that the transfer took longer than expected. And offered Mr M a goodwill 
payment of £400 to settle the complaint. But Mr M doesnt consider this is enough.
Mr M has a second, separate complaint with Saxo. But my decision here only covers the 
complaint about the delayed September 2021 transfer.
What happened
I understand that Mr M had a SIPP with provider A. And that he wanted to transfer this to 
Saxo Capital. 
Mr M said that he initiated the transfer with provider A in March 2021. But that the transfer 
only completed much later. So he complained to both provider A and to Saxo.
Saxo acknowledged that the transfer had taken longer than expected and that the service it 
had provided hadnt met its usual standards. But it said that the involvement of multiple 
parties had complicated communication. It also said that it had relied on other parties 
involvement.
Saxo said that although Mr M felt that if the transfer hadnt been delayed he mightve sold 
some securities at their highest market point and then reinvested that money, it couldnt be 
held liable for loss of potential profits, in line with its General Business Terms. It said it was 
an execution-only provider. But it offered Mr M £400 compensation as a goodwill gesture in 
settlement of his complaint. 
Mr M told Saxo provider A had offered him £1,600 for his investment loss. And £300 for the 
stress and upset. He felt that it was also legally obliged to cover an investment loss. Mr M 
also said that he held Saxo more responsible for the delays than provider A. 
Mr M said he would accept total compensation of £6,000 for his investment loss and for the 
distress and inconvenience he had gone through. Of this, he claimed £4,499.55 for 
investment loss. 
Saxo didnt change its £400 offer, so Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He felt Saxo 
had caused an investment loss on a specific share. He said he had lost out both on the sale 
price and the investment opportunity he wouldve taken but for Saxos delays. Mr M didnt 
think it was reasonable for Saxo not to provide him with compensation for his investment 
loss. He also felt that the £400 it had offered him was insulting. 
Our investigator issued his first view in August 2022. He felt that the complaint should be 
upheld. He considered that Saxo had caused a delay of 20 days to the transfer after 
reasonably cancelling it on 21 September 2021. He felt that Saxo was largely responsible for 
the delay in transferring specific investments from provider A to Saxo Capital.  
Our investigator felt that the transfer shouldve been completed in ten working days of all the 
information being available to all involved parties. He felt this wouldve meant that the 
transfer shouldve been completed on 16 September 2021. He recommended that Saxo 
should compare the current position of Mr Ms pension with what it wouldve been if the 
transfer had completed at that date. And restore his pension to what it wouldve been. He 
said this should be done in addition to the £400 compensation Saxo had already offered Mr 
M for the stress and upset it had caused him. 
Mr M told our investigator that Saxo had updated its offer for stress and upset to £1,000. He 
said he hadnt accepted this as he felt he should get more. He said he didnt think that Saxo 
should pay less than what provider A had already paid. 
Saxo didnt agree with our investigator. It made the following points: 
It accepted our investigators conclusion that it had taken too long to reinstate the 
transfer after it had been cancelled on 1 September 2021. But it didnt agree that it 
should bear full responsibility for re-initiating the process. It said it had no response 
from provider A at the relevant time. And felt that provider A had unfairly blamed it for 
everything, while it shouldve taken some of the responsibility itself for the delay. It 
said that provider A couldve reinitiated the transfer. It also said that when multiple 
parties were involved, communication inevitably becomes more complicated.
It said that the assets in question were held with provider A at the time of the transfer. 
And that, as the recipient party it couldnt control or comment on what provider A 
allowed its clients to do or not do when a transfer request is in process. Because of 
this, it said it couldnt possibly have deprived Mr M of access to his assets during this 
period of time, because it never had them in the first place  provider A did. 
Saxo didnt agree with our investigator that the transfer shouldve completed in 10 
working days. It felt that the 10 working days the investigator had used was an 
inappropriate point of comparison for the following reasons:
- The guidance hed reference was intended for insurance companies. But 
Saxo and provider A werent insurance companies. Saxo said that the 
timelines for transfers in its industry differed significantly.
- The guidance was only intended to apply to cash transfers. But this complaint 
was about a securities transfer, which was significantly more complex. 
- As well as the complexity of a transfer of securities, this case was further 
complicated by the fact that Mr Ms securities were held in a pension wrapper 
(i.e. a SIPP), for example by requiring the involvement of yet another third-
party corporate, being the pension trustee of the SIPP.
- Saxo also said that the 10-day period referred to the inception of a transfer to 
completion, rather than being applicable to a situation where the transfer was 
cancelled and then reinitiated.
Saxo felt that the vast majority of the assets in Mr Ms portfolio were transferred in an 
acceptable time period. It also referred this service to examples of industry standards for the 
securities investment pension transfer industry. These ranged from its own four to six weeks to 10 to 12 weeks. It felt that this showed that the expected standard for its industry was 8 to 
10 weeks.
Saxo also said that Mr M had asked to transfer 51 lines of stock. And that once the transfer 
had been reinitiated on the 21 September 2021 the following had happened:
- 16 lines had transferred on 21 September 2021
- 16 lines had transferred on 1 October 2021 (within 10 days)
- 15 lines had transferred on 6 December 2021 (within 11 weeks)
- 4 lines had transferred on 7 February 2022 (within 6 months)
Saxo accepted that the February 2022 transfer was far beyond the expected timescales. But 
said that it didnt feel it had sole responsibility for this. It also said that the final assets being 
transferred were relatively complex. Given this, Saxo said it was willing to standby the 
transfer timeframe stated on its website of 4 to 6 weeks. It asked our investigator to review 
his findings on that basis. 
Saxo carried out a loss calculation which it felt put Mr M back in the position he wouldve 
been in had the transfer occurred within acceptable timeframes. The basis for its calculation 
was as follows:
- It only considered the 15 lines of assets transferred on 6 December 2021 and 
the 4 lines transferred on 7 February 2022 in its calculation, as all of the other 
transfers happened within four weeks of 1 September 2021. 
- It had used 1 October 2021 as the baseline for when the December 2021 and 
February 2022 shouldve occurred.
- It had looked at the end-of-day price of the assets transferred in December 
2021 and February 2022 and compared their value when they were actually 
transferred with their value when it felt they shouldve transferred (1 October 
2021).
- Saxo also said it didnt agree with our investigator that the current position of 
Mr Ms pension was the right point of comparison. It said that Mr M had full 
access to all of his assets from 7 February 2022. And that he didnt hold those 
assets with Saxo anymore. It said that was why it had used the period of 6 
December 2021 and 7 February 2022 as the comparison point. 
Saxos loss calculation showed that Mr M wouldve been £1,675 better off if the December 
2021 and February 2022 assets had been transferred to it by 1 October 2021. It said that if it 
deducted from this figure the amount of £1,900 provider A had already paid to Mr M, and 
then added in the £400 compensation our investigator had recommended, it led to a total 
figure of £175. But that it was willing to increase its offer up to the £400 our investigator had 
suggested. 
Saxo also said that in order to try to achieve the type of redress our investigator had 
recommended, it had also estimated what an average trader couldve made from those 
assets had he traded during the period from 1 October 2021 to 7 February 2022. It said that 
its calculation produced a hypothetical gain over that period of £2,597. After deducting 
provider As compensation of £1,900, and adding £400, this came to a final figure of £1,097.Saxo said that it felt both of these calculations were fair and reasonable bases. It also said 
that although it had carried out these calculations, it didnt accept legal responsibility for any 
of these hypothetical losses. It said this position was fully supported by its General Terms of 
Business, which Mr M had signed when hed opened his account. It said that Mr M had 
suffered no actual loss. 
Our investigator shared Saxos proposals with Mr M. He said that Saxo had said it felt the 
second approach was more in line with what his view was trying to achieve. But he wanted 
to know Mr Ms views on the offer before he himself reached a conclusion on whether he 
agreed that either of the loss calculations were suitable. 
Mr M felt Saxo had caused more investment loss than provider A. He said he would settle if 
the stress and upset compensation was increased to £2,000 and if in addition a £3,000 
payment was made for investment loss. 
Mr M asked to see how Saxo had calculated the investment loss. And said that provider A 
had provided an investment loss figure of £1,600. He said the investment loss calculation 
should be based on the average investment returns hed achieved over the last two or three 
years. He also still felt he should get more compensation from Saxo for the stress and upset. 
Our investigator issued his second view in September 2022. He still felt that Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that provider A couldve potentially resolved 
the issue, but felt that Saxo could also have done so. And as he was specifically looking at 
Saxos actions in relation to this complaint, he felt it followed that he would look primarily at 
where Saxo couldve resolved the problem.
Our investigator felt his original recommendation for financial redress was still correct. But 
now felt that the revised offer for compensation for stress and upset Mr M said Saxo had 
offered - £1,000  should be paid instead of the £400 hed originally recommended. He also 
said that this £1,000 should be considered completely separate to the financial loss aspect 
of the complaint, and shouldnt be used as any part of the determination of the financial loss.
Mr M was still unhappy with the compensation recommended for stress and upset. He now 
wanted £3,000. 
Saxo didnt agree with our investigator. It still felt its proposal was fair and reasonable. And 
that our investigator hadnt given due consideration to the appropriate transfer time period. It 
still didnt agree with the 10-working day transfer time hed recommended should be used to 
work out when the transfer shouldve completed given it had applied to the wrong sort of 
transfer and the wrong industry. 
However, in the interests of coming to an agreeable resolution, Saxo agreed to work through 
our investigators suggested calculations regarding transfer time periods. Saxo said it would 
make one change to our investigators recommended calculation. It said it hadnt used the 
current position of Mr Ms pension for the reasons it had previously explained. 
Saxo said that provider A had already paid Mr M £1,900 in respect of the transfer delay. It 
said to calculate the financial loss, it had estimated what the average trader couldve made 
from the transferring assets in the period of 16 September 2021 to 7 February 2022. It 
provided calculations which showed that this was £41,844.79.
Saxo said it had then taken the hypothetical starting point asset value on 16 September 
2021, which was £41,840.53. This calculation therefore produced a hypothetical gain if Mr M 
had traded in line with market averages of £4.26. Saxo said that after the amount paid by 
provider A was deducted from this, a negative result would be produced. Saxo said that Mr M hadnt fully explained to this service that the £1,000 it had offered for 
stress and upset was to settle both this complaint, and his other separate complaint. It said it 
had only ever offered £400 in respect of this complaint.
Overall, Saxo said its calculations of the redress our investigator had recommended, 
included the correct stress and upset compensation it had offered in respect of this 
complaint, totalled £404.26. But it said that as it would be willing to re-offer the amount it had 
suggested previously  that is a final total figure of £1,097, which included both the financial 
loss and the £400 compensation for stress and upset.
Mr M asked this service if it would be possible to get the £1,000 he said hed been offered 
for stress and upset for both of his complaints with Saxo paid now, with investment loss 
being handled separately.
Our investigator considered Saxos points but didnt change his view. He still felt that the 
transfer should be backdated to 16 September 2021. And that the financial loss calculations 
should therefore use 16 September 2021 as a start date. He also felt that the calculation 
should take into account the current notional account value.
Saxo didnt agree with our investigator. It said that Mr M only had restricted access to trade 
certain of his positions during the transfer. It said that the transfer completed on 7 February 
2022. So all positions had been transferred from provider A to Saxo at this point. While it 
didnt know what had happened to those assets after theyd been transferred to provider A, it 
felt that they wouldve been open and tradeable from 7 February 2022. So it felt it wasnt 
responsible for what had happened to those assets after 7 February 2022. 
Saxo also said there was no reasonable basis for holding Saxo responsible for trades Mr M 
had carried out after the transfer had been completed, or for the way the markets moved. It 
also said that our investigator hadnt been clear on what when he believed the responsibility 
for the loss ended. 
Saxo also felt that it had already offered Mr M a more than reasonable amount of 
compensation for stress and upset, especially as it was prepared to stand by its offer of 
£1,097.
I asked Mr M to provide the letters provider A had sent him which covered the investment 
loss of £1,600 he said it had offered him, ideally showing the calculations. But he didnt 
reply.
I asked Saxo for a copy of Mr Ms 23 November 2021 complaint, which it had addressed in 
its 18 January 2022. I also told Saxo that provider A had said in a letter dated 2 December 
2021 to Mr M that Saxo had told it on 1 December 2021 that the transfer request had been 
cancelled, but that Saxo was going to immediately re-state it. I asked Saxo to provide a copy 
of that correspondence.
Saxo said that Mr M had emailed it to ask for an update on his complaint on 23 November 
2021. But that it hadnt been able to find a complaint form or anything from Mr M asking to 
escalate a complaint. But it said it had sent Mr M a complaint acknowledgement email on the 
day Mr M had asked for an update and started investigating. 
Saxo also said that it couldnt find an email from Saxo to provider A on 1 December 2021 
which stated it had had cancelled the transfer. But it had found an email from Saxo to 
provider A on 3 January 2022 which stated that it had cancelled the transfer of a specific 
stock for administrative reasons. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 June 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that financial 
compensation is required here. But I dont agree that the transfer shouldve completed by 16 
September 2021 - Im satisfied it shouldve completed by 1 October 2021. And I also dont 
agree with our investigator that Saxo should base its hypothetical loss calculation on the 
current position of Mr Ms pension. Instead Im persuaded that 7 February 2022 should be 
used, with interest then being applied to reimburse Mr M for the loss of use of that money. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Before I consider the settlement offer Saxo has made Mr M, I first considered the length of 
the delay Saxo caused. 
When should the transfer have completed?
From what Ive seen, Saxo started communicating with provider A about Mr Ms transfer on 
28 July 2021, after it had set up a pension account for him. The two parties then 
communicated regularly until 23 August 2021 to ensure all the instructions were in place in a 
way that all parties could accept and process. I dont consider that this was an unreasonable 
period of time to have taken given the complexity of the transfer. 
Saxo cancelled the transfer on 1 September 2021 when it didnt receive information it 
needed from provider A. And the transfer had to start again. 
Although I can see that it was reasonable for Saxo to have cancelled the transfer when it did, 
I dont consider that it shouldve taken until 21 September 2021 to start the transfer process 
again. I agree with our investigator that the process couldve been resumed as early as 1 
September 2021. Saxo also appear to have agreed that the transfer shouldve started here, 
as it has said the transfer shouldve then completed by 1 October 2021, using the lowest end 
of its published 4 to 6 week timeframe. 
Therefore, although there were clearly also subsequent delays with the transfer, theres no 
value in attributing those to either provider A or to Saxo. Instead, I agree with Saxo that the 
transfer shouldve completed by 1 October 2021.
Is Saxos settlement offer fair?
Where a business has made an offer to settle a complaint  as Saxo has done  what I have 
to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable.
In this case, Saxo has acknowledged that it delayed Mr Ms transfer. While it didnt agree 
that it was responsible - as an execution only provider - for the loss of any potential trading 
profits, it offered financial compensation based on the hypothetical gain that Mr M wouldve 
made between 16 September 2021  as recommended by our investigator - and 7 February 
2022. Saxo said this gain wouldve been £4.26. 
Saxos calculation of the £4.26 hypothetical loss differed from the calculation our investigator 
had recommended  it used an end date of 7 February 2022, rather than the present date. 
Although Saxo didnt agree that the transfer shouldve completed by 16 September, it based 
the calculation on this date, rather than the date it felt should be used - 1 October 2021.As I noted above, I consider that the transfer shouldve completed by 1 October 2021. Saxo 
had previously used this date in an earlier hypothetical loss calculation. It said that an 
average trader couldve made a hypothetical gain of £2,597 during the period from 1 
October 2021 to 7 February 2022. It then made a settlement offer of £1,097, which it 
calculated by deducting provider As compensation of £1,900, and adding its stress and 
upset offer of £400. 
I consider that this hypothetical loss calculation is broadly reasonable, except for two points. 
I say this because, from what Ive seen, Saxo has fairly based its loss calculation on the 
correct assets, and for the correct period of time. But it has incorrectly deducted provider As 
£300 compensation to Mr M in respect of stress and upset, as well as the £1,600 financial 
loss compensation it provided. And it hasnt allowed for any interest or investment return on 
the hypothetical gain between 7 February 2022 and the date of any final decision. 
Ill explain why I consider Saxos calculation is broadly correct. And what I feel it needs to do 
to make it right.
I dont agree with our investigator that the transfer shouldve completed in 10 working days. I 
say this because I agree with Saxo that the 10 working days guidance wasnt an appropriate 
point of comparison for a transfer of this type. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Saxo to 
allow four weeks for the transfer, which I agree was complex. 
I say this because Saxos stated timeframe for transfers on its website is four to six weeks. 
So I consider it is fair and reasonable to allow it to abide by its own stated timeframe.
I also dont agree with our investigator that the loss calculation should consider what the 
pension wouldve been now, but for the delays. 
I say this because I agree with Saxo that Mr M had full access to all of his assets from 7 
February 2022. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Saxo responsible for Mr 
Ms investment choices after he had access to all of his assets from 7 February 2022. So I 
consider that Saxo reasonably used 7 February 2022 as the end point for its hypothetical 
loss calculations.
However, I consider that the hypothetical loss calculation shouldve also taken account of the 
lost investment return on the loss calculated, from 7 February 2022 to the date of any final 
decision. To put this right, I intend to ask Saxo to pay Mr M annual simple interest of 8% on 
its share of the hypothetical loss from 7 February 2022 to the date of any final decision.
Ive suggested simple interest here, rather than any actual investment market returns, for 
simplicity.
I also consider that Saxo has inadvertently deducted the £300 provider A offered Mr M in 
respect of stress and upset from its hypothetical loss calculation. So it should add this back 
to the net £697 hypothetical loss it calculated, bringing that total up to £997. 
I understand that Mr M holds Saxo more responsible for the transfer delays than provider A, 
and therefore expected a higher level of compensation from it than that he has already 
received from provider A. But I can only fairly ask Saxo to put Mr M back to the position he 
wouldve most likely been in but for the delays it caused. And I believe that the payment of 
£997, plus interest, will do this. 
I finally considered whether Saxos offer of compensation for the stress and upset it has 
caused Mr M is fair.Distress and inconvenience
Saxo has offered Mr M £400 compensation for the stress and upset the transfer delays have 
caused him. I understand he received £300 from provider A. 
From what Ive seen, Mr M was inconvenienced by the delays to his transfer. And it has 
clearly caused him stress. However, Im satisfied that the £400 Saxo has offered him is fair 
and reasonable under the circumstances.
In summary, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to ask Saxo to pay Mr M £997 for the 
hypothetical financial loss and £400 for the stress and upset. I also intend to ask Saxo to pay 
annual simple interest on the £997 at the rate of 8% between 7 February 2022 and the date 
of any final decision. 
Response to my provisional decision
Saxo said that whilst there were elements of the decision that it didnt agree with, it would 
accept my decision in this case. 
It said that it would be helpful, before the final decision, if I could agree the compensation 
figure, to ensure that it had properly understood my request. 
It set out its calculation of this as follows: 
Hypothetical trading gain = £2,597 
MINUS [provider A] compensation for financial loss only = £1,600 
SUB-TOTAL = £997
PLUS 8% annual interest
= £997 x 8% = £79.76
To annualise for the time period in question:
£79.76 / 12 = monthly interest = £6.64
7 February 2022 to 6 July 2023 = 17 months = £6.64 x 17 = £112.88
PLUS compensation for stress & upset [see p.8 of the decision] = £400
GRAND TOTAL = £1509.88
Mr M said he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He still felt Saxo had offered him 
£1,000 compensation, which he felt I had reduced. 
Mr M said he also disagreed with my transfer timeline views. But he didnt provide any other 
information. 
Mr M also felt that Saxo should be penalised for its actions. He said that provider A had paid 
him £1,600 financial compensation, which was more than I was asking Saxo to pay him. But 
he felt that Saxo had been responsible for most of the issues. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm that Saxos calculation of a total redress of £1,509.88 is in line with my 
provisional decision. 
I acknowledge that Mr M still considers that Saxo offered him £1,000 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. But it has said that is not the case. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, Saxo said that the £1,000 it had offered Mr M for 
stress and upset was to settle both this complaint, and his other separate complaint. It said it 
had only ever offered £400 in respect of this complaint. So I dont agree I have reduced the 
amount Saxo offered in my decision.
I acknowledge that Mr M feels strongly that Saxo is more responsible than provider A for 
what happened. But provider A has already provided a certain level of financial 
compensation, and I need to allow for that to ensure Mr M is put back, as close as possible, 
to the position he would otherwise be in if the delays hadnt occurred. I dont have the power 
to penalise Saxo. But I can ask it to take steps to ensure Mr M is put back, as close as 
possible, to where he should be now. I consider that the redress it has agreed to pay Mr M 
does that.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited to pay Mr M:
- £997 for the hypothetical trading gain he wouldve made
- £112.88 in lost interest on that trading gain
- £400 for stress and upset
Income tax may be payable on the interest paid. If Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited deducts 
income tax from any interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Saxo Capital 
Markets UK Limited should give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require Saxo Capital Markets UK 
Limited to take the actions listed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman