DRN-4051970
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains that Barclays Bank Plc didnt defend 
chargebacks raised against it, which resulted in a default being registered against it. 
O is represented by one of its directors, Mrs P.
What happened
O is a merchant. In July 2020, three chargebacks totalling £4,270 were raised against O in 
relation to a booking for an event that was due to take place in May 2020.
Mrs P submitted Os defence explaining that Os client had accepted its terms and conditions 
when they booked the event and it was clearly detailed that the booking was non-refundable. 
Mrs P also detailed her efforts to offer an alternative date for the event. 
There were administrative issues with the chargebacks defence being supplied, but this was 
eventually rectified, and Barclays received Os defence. However, Barclays didnt defend the 
chargebacks as they said the defence was insufficient, so O was not re-credited for the 
chargebacks. 
Mrs P cancelled Os direct debit to Barclays and made manual payments between August 
and November 2020, so Barclays were unable to collect the outstanding £2,000 that had 
been raised as chargebacks.
Mrs P complained to Barclays on Os behalf in October 2020. She said she had tried to 
contact Barclays to discuss the matter on numerous occasions but to no avail. Mrs P agreed 
to one of the chargebacks and enclosed a cheque to cover it, however she disputed the 
other two chargebacks which totalled £2,000. She told Barclays the event was never going 
to go ahead due to a personal matter of Os clients and asked for the matter to be settled. 
She also asked Barclays to terminate their contract with O.
Barclays apologised for the administrative difficulties O had had in responding to the 
chargeback and explained the reasons why they didnt defend the chargebacks. Barclays 
further apologised that the chargebacks were initially identified as fraud and explained that 
once it was confirmed that the transactions werent fraudulent, the case was passed to their 
chargebacks team. They acknowledged that Mrs P had told them Os client was untruthful 
but explained that element was a civil matter and suggested O pursue it through the small 
claims court. 
Barclays confirmed that the account had been closed at Mrs Ps request on 6 November but 
that the remaining £2,000 debt on the account would need to be cleared. Barclays explained 
that if the debt was not paid it would be written off by their collections team which would 
affect Os credit file which is what ultimately happened here.
Mrs P was unhappy with Barclays actions, so she brought Os complaint to us. She told us 
that a default had been registered against O which was affecting O from being able to 
borrow money. This was a particularly stressful time as there had been a fire which was 
affecting Os business further.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He upheld the complaint as he said Barclays 
shouldve defended the chargebacks and this was ultimately what led to the default being 
recorded against O. He said that Barclays should remove the default and pay £200 to O for 
the inconvenience caused by the process.
Barclays disputed the outcome. They agreed to pay the £200 to O to settle the matter but 
said they accepted no liability for the chargebacks, or any inconvenience caused. They 
further explained that the only way the default could be removed was for the outstanding 
debt of £2,000 to be paid. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the case was referred to me for a decision. Having 
reviewed the case, I issued a provisional decision on Os complaint earlier this month, 
setting out why I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I said:
Ill begin by explaining that I cant intervene in the outcome of Os dispute with the 
cardholder. The chargeback process was run by the Card Scheme and operated 
according to the Card Schemes rules. Barclays didnt operate the scheme and were 
not responsible for deciding whether the chargeback should be successful. 
So, Im not going to make any findings on whether the chargeback should have been 
raised and whether it shouldve been successful. What I can do is look at the actions 
of Barclays and whether they acted fairly once the chargeback was raised.
Barclays actions in relation to the defence of the chargebacks
Mrs P submitted a defence on behalf of O, but Barclays chose not to defend the case 
as they said Os defence was insufficient. The terms and conditions of their merchant 
agreement with O allow them to do this if they think the chargeback is unlikely to be 
successful. Although Barclays arent obliged to investigate the validity of any 
chargeback, we would think it reasonable for them to do so if there was a realistic 
chance of a successful outcome. So, Ive considered the likelihood of the defence 
being successful.
The basis of Os defence was that its client accepted its terms and conditions, 
including the non-refundable clause if the cancellation wasnt as a result of Os 
actions. Mrs P explained that it had offered alternative dates to its client to 
reschedule. 
Barclays told us they didnt defend the chargebacks as the defence was insufficient 
under the Card Scheme rules as there was no evidence that the terms and 
conditions had been read and accepted by the cardholder, even though O had 
supplied a copy of the booking form with details of its terms and conditions included. 
Barclays are familiar with the Card Schemes processes and the likelihood of whether 
a claim might succeed. In terms of cases where the acceptance of terms and 
conditions is used as a defence, VISA require the merchant to provide, at a 
minimum, a hyperlink to the terms and conditions at the point of sign off. 
In this case there is no evidence that O met this criterion. On Os booking form there 
is a tick box at the end of the form which Os clients ticked to confirm they accepted 
its terms and conditions. This form was not completed in person, so the names of Os 
client are typed and there are no signatures on the form. So, I agree that based on the defence provided by O it seems unlikely the Card 
Scheme wouldve ruled in their favour because of the acceptance process O had in 
place at the time of the sale. Barclays had the right not to defend the chargebacks 
and I cant see that theyve acted unfairly here based on the evidence provided to 
them by O. 
Ive also considered the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA)s stance on 
similar matters. The CMA published guidance around this time to help businesses 
treat their customers fairly regarding cancellations and refunds in response to the 
pandemic.
They said a contract would be considered to be frustrated if it couldnt go ahead as 
agreed due to no fault of either party. So, if the contract is frustrated it comes to an 
end and if customers have paid money in advance for services that they have not 
received, they will generally be entitled to a refund.
For most consumer contracts, the CMA would expect a consumer to be offered a full 
refund where they are prevented from receiving a service because laws in the UK or 
abroad have made it illegal to receive or use the service.
Also, in the CMAs view, rights to a refund will usually apply even where the business 
says part of the payment is a non-refundable deposit because the contract will have 
been frustrated and the terms which allow a business to provide no service but keep 
a consumers money are likely to be considered unfair.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong in not 
defending the chargebacks. 
Administrative issues
Barclays initially told O that the payments were being recalled due to fraudulent 
activity on its account. Barclays said that once it was established that the 
transactions were not fraudulent, they passed the case to the chargebacks team. In 
addition, there was a new email system for chargebacks due to the impact of the 
pandemic, and this caused some confusion for O.
I dont think Barclays were particularly clear in explaining to O what it needed to do or 
why the defence wouldnt be sufficient. I also think the initial discussion about 
fraudulent activity, although valid, confused the matter. As a result, there was 
confusion and inconvenience caused to Os directors. And to apologise for that, I 
think Barclays should pay £200 to O. 
To be clear, I dont think it wouldve made a difference to the outcome of the defence 
if Barclays had been more specific about why the defence was insufficient, as I can 
see from the booking form that the system O had in place at that time was unlikely to 
have satisfied the rules of the Card Scheme.
Removing the default
Barclays collections team wrote off the remaining £2,000 debt due on Os account 
after the account was closed in November 2020. As a result, a default was registered 
on Os credit file. Ive already concluded that Barclays acted reasonably in respect of 
how the chargebacks were handled, so I wont be asking them to remove the default.However, I have spoken to Barclays to see if there was a way to reduce the impact of 
the default on Os credit file. Barclays explained that O could still repay the debt so 
the default would show as settled on its credit file, but the default cant be removed 
as it was applied correctly.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence before I made a final 
decision.
Barclays responded to say they accepted the decision and agreed to pay £200 to O for the 
inconvenience their errors caused.
Mrs P said O didnt accept the decision. In summary, she said:
What evidence can Barclays provide to show that they provided me with the 
information necessary to ensure we were able to meet this criterion and would 
comply with the card scheme processes?
Os clients were untruthful about the reason for the chargeback and their dishonesty 
caused the fault, so the contract was not frustrated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything Mrs P has said, however, having done so, I ve reached 
the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Mrs P has asked for evidence from Barclays to show that they provided O with the 
information necessary to ensure it was able to meet this criterion and comply with the card 
scheme rules. However, I dont think it was the responsibility of Barclays to ensure Os 
business processes adhered to each of the card scheme rules. So, Ive looked to see that 
Barclays brought the risks associated with taking card payments to Os attention and Im 
satisfied that they did. 
The terms and conditions of the agreement between O and Barclays sets out the 
responsibilities of each party in relation to the chargeback process. Barclays have detailed 
what happens in the case of a chargeback, and have explained in section 4 of the Merchant 
terms and conditions document that in some circumstances the card issuer or account 
provider will have the right under the scheme rules to refuse to settle a payment or to 
request a reimbursement of a payment which has already been settled.
It is the responsibility of the merchant (O) to understand the risks associated with accepting 
card payments and the risks of chargebacks. Barclays have brought these risks to Os 
attention and explained that any transaction they accept is at risk of a chargeback under the 
card scheme rules. So, I think Barclays have fulfilled their obligations in this respect and it is 
then the responsibility of the merchant to ensure their processes meet the rules of the card 
schemes.
Mrs P has also raised the matter of Os clients being untruthful about the reason for the 
chargeback. She said their dishonesty caused the fault, so the contract was not frustrated. I 
can understand Mrs Ps frustrations here. However, the issuing bank raised the chargeback 
on the grounds of services not being received - which they werent. Barclays role was to 
ensure the chargeback was processed in line with the terms and conditions of their 
agreement with O, along with the rules of the relevant card scheme. And this is what they did. So, I cant say they acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
At the heart of this complaint is the impact of Os clients actions on Os business operations. 
I could only make a finding on that issue if I was to conclude that Barclays actions 
contributed to the losses O has incurred. But Ive not found that to be the case here. The 
ultimate loss has occurred because of the actions of the third party and not those of 
Barclays. 
I know that O has experienced unforeseen difficulties since the default was registered which 
the default has magnified. I can understand the disappointment my decision will cause to Os 
directors, particularly as O has no contract with the issuing banks so it cant claim against 
them and the only other recourse is civil action against Os client. 
However, as Ive explained, I can only look at the actions of Barclays and I havent found any 
evidence that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in not defending the chargebacks. 
Nonetheless, there were administrative issues that caused inconvenience to O during this 
process and to reflect this, I think Barclays should pay £200 to O.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and those detailed in my provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint in part. I direct Barclays Bank Plc to pay £200 to O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman