DRN-1634039
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the negative information Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc has recorded on 
his credit file even though he has maintained his payment under this debt management plan.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in September 2016 and in 
doing so agreed to its terms. These included maintaining the monthly payments 
which were set at around £95. Mr R was struggling with his repayments and towards 
the end 2018 he entered a payment plan and lower monthly repayment amounts 
were agreed. Mr R has maintained but these are as they are less than the original 
contractual amounts due his account has continued to accrue arrears.
Hitachi has a duty to record accurate information about Mr Rs account to the credit 
reference agencies. I have looked at the credit reports Mr R has provided (dated 
August 2019 and January 2020). The entry for Hitachi records the letters AR from 
December 2018 onwards. Hitachi has explained this is the code for the agreement 
being in an arrangement. As this is accurate, I do not find I can say Hitachi was 
wrong to record this information.
While I can understand why Mr R is upset about the information recorded on his 
credit file as he hasnt been making his contractual payments his account is in 
arrears. The impact on his credit file of not paying his contractual amounts was set 
out in the fixed sum loan agreement and I do not find that Hitachi was wrong to report 
the status of Mr Rs account to the credit reference agencies.
Mr Rs credit report records the status of his Hitachi account as late payment. Mr R 
said that he had never made his payment late. Hitachi has said that Mr Rs payments 
were due at the end of the month, but they are often received on 11 or 12 of the 
month. Mr R said the payment date under his debt management plan was arranged 
between the debt management plan provider and Hitachi and that he has complied 
with this. He said he had never been told his payments were late. I have looked 
through Mr Rs payment statement and can see the last full payment amount was 
paid on 30 October 2018. The first reduced payment amount was paid on 11 
December 2018 and these have been paid monthly since. As a payment would have 
been due at end November 2018 but this was made until 11 December, I can see 
that a late payment did occur.
I have asked Hitachi about the payment dates. It has said that the payment date has 
always been the 30th of the month and payment is required each calendar month. If 
Mr R is concerned about the payment date he should discuss this with his debt 
management plan provider.
While I understand why Mr R is upset about the information recorded on his credit 
file, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that Hitachi has done anything 
wrong regarding the information it has recorded on Mr Rs credit file.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman