DRN-4214659
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Rothesay Life Plc (Rothesay) paid her less than its original illustration 
of benefits from her occupational pension scheme (OPS) said it would. She says because it 
recalculated the benefits, she received less tax free cash (TFC) and a lower income figure 
which she wouldnt have accepted if she had known beforehand. She wants Rothesay to 
honour its original higher calculation.
What happened
Mrs P belonged to an OPS although her pensionable service had ended in July 2006. Her 
normal retirement date was aged 65, but she applied to draw her retirement benefits from 
1 May 2022. In March 2022 Rothesay provided a retirement quotation which was 
guaranteed for 90 days from 2 March 2022 but noted that Rothesay had the right to 
undertake a recalculation if it received its required documentation after that date. The TFC 
that was available was £69,576.47 and the yearly pension was £10,436.52.
Unfortunately Mrs P couldnt return the documents until late June and emailed Rothesay on 
4 July 2022 to ask if the documents had been received. Rothesay explained to Mrs P that 
there were a couple of additional forms which needed to be returned, which were completed 
by mid-July 2022. On 22 July 2022 Rothesay issued a revised statement of benefits which 
noted that the TFC payment on 26 July 2022 would be £67,387.80 and the yearly annuity 
payment would be £10,108.08.
Mrs P contacted Rothesay and said the new figures were much lower than the original 
forecast and asked for an explanation. Rothesay said the figures given in its original 
quotation were guaranteed for three months from the date of that letter. As Mrs P hadnt 
returned the required forms within that time it had been necessary to recalculate the 
benefits. It also added that as the value of the benefits had fallen by less than 10% it had 
acted within the rules of the scheme procedures  which meant it didnt have to confirm the 
new values to Mrs P before it settled the claim and paid the benefits. 
Mrs P said she had sent the information to Rothesay before the deadline expired but 
Rothesay explained that she hadnt provided all the forms by that date  as she had been 
required to do. It said it was therefore required to recalculate the benefits.
Mrs P said she had to print off and return two forms and also hadnt received a response to 
her email of 7 July 2022 which asked if Rothesay had received the forms. But Rothesay said 
that, as the original quotation was dated 2 March 2022 it would have required the 
outstanding forms to be returned by the end of May 2022  which Mrs P hadnt been able to 
do. 
However, Rothesay noted that it should have told her, following her email correspondence of 
20 June 2022, that a new quotation would be required  which it accepted may have allowed 
her to decide if she wanted to defer her benefits to a later date. It offered £400 compensation 
as a gesture of goodwill. It also said that Mrs P could reverse the decision to draw her 
benefits providing she repaid all the funds that had been paid to her. It thought this would 
allow her to defer taking her benefits if that was what she wanted to do. 
 
But Mrs P said she hadnt been advised by Rothesay that the benefits would be recalculated 
so she brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter, but 
he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said there was no evidence to suggest 
that Rothesay hadnt done what it said it would in its original quotation  namely to 
recalculate the benefits if the quotation expired. He accepted that Rothesay hadnt handled 
the matter well and missed the opportunity to make Mrs P aware that it would carry out a 
recalculation. However, he didnt think there was any evidence to support the idea that Mrs P 
would have deferred her retirement date if shed been made aware of Rothesays position  
and he concluded that the offer of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mrs P said that, when she received an email from Rothesay with the updated calculation on 
23 July 2022, she responded immediately but didnt get a reply and the funds were paid into 
her bank a few days later. She said this gave her no choice in the matter and has left her out 
of pocket  which she thought was unfair. She said that because she had retired, she was 
travelling during this whole process and even asked Rothesay if things needed to be 
updated because of the elapsed time  but was told everything was fine. She wanted her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it was given to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said I thought that Rothesays offer of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and its willingness to reverse Mrs Ps retirement and allow her to 
defer taking benefits until a later date was fair and reasonable. I made the following points in 
support of my findings:
Mrs P received a letter from Rothesay dated 2 March 2022 which set out what she 
needed to return as outstanding documentation. It also noted that the illustration of 
retirement benefits payable was guaranteed for 90 days from 2 March 2022. So it 
was reasonable to expect the information to be provided before 1 June 2022 in order 
to guarantee those payments. 
But the first communication Id seen from Mrs P was 20 June 2022  which was 20 
days after the expiry of the illustration.
So, although Mrs P provided evidence to show that the matter remained unresolved 
for some time afterwards, I didnt think Rothesay had acted unfairly by recalculating 
the benefits payable when the deadline for providing the outstanding requirements 
expired. 
When Rothesay recalculated the benefits it didnt make Mrs P aware of what it was 
going to do and that the amounts payable had fallen. So I considered what Mrs P 
might have done if shed been made aware of that fact. But I thought that if Mrs P 
had the option to defer her benefits and live off other means she would have done so 
in the first place instead of drawing her benefits at the first opportunity. So I thought it 
was difficult to conclude that she would have deferred taking her benefits if shed 
been made aware of the recalculation prior to the claim being settled. 
I also noted that Rothesay had offered Mrs P the chance to repay the benefits shed 
received and to unwind her retirement and defer taking the benefits. But she hadnt 
responded to that offer. 
Mrs P said that was because she was travelling and only had three days to consider 
Rothesays offer before she left the country again  which wasnt sufficient time to 
consider the possible tax implications of such an offer.  I thought that if Mrs P had 
wanted to unwind the payment of her retirement benefits  as she said she would 
have done if shed known about the lower recalculated benefits, then any offer to do 
so would more likely than not have been acceptable to her without the need to 
consider the tax implications.But in any case Rothesays offer did put Mrs P as close to the position shed be in 
now had she not taken her benefits. And it confirmed the offer was still available, so I 
thought it was a fair and reasonable resolution to the matter  along with the offer of 
compensation for any distress the matter had caused Mrs P. 
 
Mrs P said that she and her partner had been retired since 2019 and were enjoying their 
time together. She said they didnt need to take the benefits from her pension in order to 
fund their travel or indeed their everyday living expenses, but when she was aware of the 
benefits payable she was happy to start using them as funds to be put aside for the new 
property they would be living in after their travel plans had finished. 
So she said there was no need for her to have to accept payments which amounted to 
£10,000 less  over the duration of the plan - than the original illustration of benefits. But as 
they were paid into her account without prior notice she was unable to defer them at that 
time. She went on to confirm that, had she not been travelling for much of this time, she 
would have accepted Rothesays offer to pay back the benefits shed already received and 
return to the position she was in previously. 
So she said she would like to explore the possibility of being returned to her initial position 
and wanted to know how she could go ahead with the process.
I explained that I wasnt offering the option as part of any negotiation but, as Rothesay had 
confirmed the offer was still available, I had provisionally decided that the fairest resolution to 
the complaint was to tell Rothesay that it should honour its original offer of restoration and 
take steps to unwind the whole process by returning the plan to the position it was in prior to 
benefits being drawn. 
Having already confirmed that if Mrs P wishes to return to us all payments made to date 
(PCLS + regular pension payments) then we would be in agreement to unwind her 
retirement and return her to deferred status Rothesay said it had nothing further to add 
following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I have carefully 
considered Mrs Ps further submissions, so Ill now set out the reasons for my decision.
The expiration of the guarantee within the illustrations
To begin the process of paying Mrs Ps retirement benefits Rothesay sent her a retirement 
options pack dated 2 March 2022. It included a number of documents - and the covering 
letter explained that you must fill in and return the required forms as soon as possible. Any 
delay in returning the statement may result in a delay in paying your benefits.  
Apart from a delay in making payment, the main implication of not returning the signed 
statement was that the benefits shown on the statement are based on current information 
held on our records and the law in force at the date your pension benefits are worked out. 
The figures are guaranteed for 90 days from 2 March 2022, if any of this information 
changes between now and your date of retirement, or if you have any benefits from any 
other pension provider, the figures on the enclosed statement may change.This also includes the event that a request for payment of your retirement benefits are (sic) 
received after the 90 day period Rothesay reserves the right to undertake a recalculation to 
reflect updated market conditions.  
I think this was clear in outlining Rothesays position that if it didnt receive the outstanding 
requirements it needed within 90 days, then it may recalculate the benefits that were 
payable. It went on to explain the reasons why this might be the case.
But the earliest communication Ive seen from Mrs P in relation to this request was an email 
dated 20 June 2022 when she indicated she hadnt been able to print off the forms required 
and return them. Mrs P has explained that she was travelling during much of this time but 
theres no evidence of any prior communication in which she told Rothesay she might not be 
able to meet the guarantee deadline. I know Mrs P did return the forms by the end of 
June 2022 and she has said that the process was then dragged out by Rothesay who 
requested that further information was provided. Ill comment on that matter later in the 
decision. 
But the fact remains that Mrs P was obliged to return the forms by 1 June 2022 (90 days 
after the date of the retirement pack) if she wanted to guarantee that Rothesay should use 
the figures set out within the retirement pack illustration. If this deadline wasnt met then 
Rothesay was entitled to do what it had already said it might do  which was to recalculate 
the figures. So I cant say that Rothesay did anything wrong here as it was entitled to carry 
out a new calculation if it felt it was appropriate.
However, Mrs P said that having recalculated the value of her benefits Rothesay didnt make 
her aware that the value had dropped significantly before paying the TFC and some 
backdated monthly payments into her bank account. She said this gave her no time to 
consider her options and she almost certainly would have deferred taking her benefits had 
she been given the choice. So, although I dont think Rothesay did anything wrong by 
recalculating the figures and applying the lower values, I have gone on to consider what 
Mrs P might have done had she been advised of Rothesays actions before they were 
carried out.
What would Mrs P have done?
In her response to my provisional decision Mrs P explained her situation at the time. She 
said shed been retired with her partner for a couple of years when the benefits from her 
pension became payable. She said shed had no reason to use them up to that point and 
was able to fund everyday expenditure and the travel she was embarking on using other 
means of income. She says it was only because the figures seemed attractive to her that 
she decided to draw her benefits in 2022. She thought it would make sense to put the money 
aside for future improvements to the property they intended to live in after theyd finished 
travelling. 
So Mrs P has given reasons for why she would have been in a position to defer her benefits 
in June 2022 if shed known they were lower than anticipated  as she simply didnt need to 
take them at that time. 
Its not possible for me to know what Mrs P would have done if shed been made aware of 
the lower revaluation  and I cant discount the fact that she may have made a different 
choice based on the lower TFC and residual income. But I find it difficult to conclude that she 
would have applied to take the benefits in the first place if she didnt need them.  
And, while Mrs P has explained that she simply didnt have enough time to consider 
Rothesays offer of putting her back into the position she would have been prior to taking her benefits, I think she would have made some contact with Rothesay when she received its 
offer, to align with her premise that she would definitely have deferred if shed been made 
aware of the lower revaluation. 
Im also not persuaded that Mrs P would have needed to discuss the tax implications or 
otherwise of the offer as Rothesay had simply offered to put her back into the position she 
would have been had it not paid her pension benefits. I would have expected Mrs P to have 
at least contacted Rothesay to notify it that shed received its offer and would take it up  
albeit that she would be travelling and limited to what she could do to provide information if 
required.
But, as Ive said previously, my assumption of what Mrs P would have done can only be 
made on the balance of probability, so Ive considered her position should I be wrong in my 
assertion of what I think happened.
Rothesays offer to put things right
If I am wrong in my assumption above then its fair to conclude that Mrs P would have 
chosen to defer her benefits if shed been made aware of the lower revaluation. So this 
would form the basis of any redress I might recommend if I thought the complaint should be 
uphold, thereby restoring Mrs P to the position shed now be in had Rothesay not made an 
error.
However, Rothesay has accepted this position and made Mrs P an offer to reflect the fact 
that it should have made her aware that it was going to revalue the benefits and that this 
might lead to a reduction in those benefits. 
It offered Mrs P £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the error and also said it 
was willing to reverse her retirement by unwinding the TFC and income payments and 
allowing her to defer taking benefits until a later date. Mrs P would need to repay what shes 
received so far  but shes confirmed that money remains in her savings so can be paid back 
to Rothesay. And Rothesay has confirmed the offer remains available to Mrs P and, while it 
has said that unwinding the annuity is a complex matter, it has given a commitment to 
carrying it out.
So I think, given the circumstances, Rothesays offer puts Mrs P back as close to the 
position she would now be in had Rothesay made her aware of the lower revaluation and 
she had then requested the deferment as she said she would have done. So I think thats a 
fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances and the compensation offer of £400 is within 
the range of what Id expect to see for the impact caused by an error like this.
My final decision
Rothesay Life Plcs offer is to put Mrs P back as close to the position she would now be in
had she chosen to defer taking her benefits instead of receiving them in July 2022. It has
also offered to pay compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience arising from its 
decision not to make Mrs P aware of the outcome of its revaluation before it paid her 
benefits.
I think that offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, so thats what Rothesay 
should do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Keith LawrenceOmbudsman