DRN-3086952
The complaint
Mr S complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined his claim for legal 
expenses insurance (LEI). He is also unhappy with the service he received. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some key events here. Mr S has insurance for certain legal expenses 
which is provided by UKI. 
Mr S made a claim to UKI, he wanted to take legal action against a firm of solicitors Ill refer 
to as E. Mr S had previously engaged Es services as he wanted their help to set aside a 
statutory demand that had been made against him. Mr S says that E breached their contract 
with him and that they were negligent. 
Ultimately UKI declined the claim. They had concerns that the original issue pre-dated Mr S 
insurance cover. They also believed the overall dispute to have arisen from Mr S business 
and they said there were policy exclusions which applied. 
Mr S referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators considered the 
complaint. He thought UKI had acted fairly and he didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
In August 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the heading of Contract Disputes Mr S policy says We will pay costs for breach of 
contract claims for buying or hiring services It goes on to say:
We dont cover claims arising from or relating to:
Contracts you entered before your cover started;
Contracts connected with a profession, business, trade or venture for gain;
Contracts connected to your employment other than those connected with
employment below;
Professional negligence in connection with any matter not covered under this section 
(section 4)
I dont think these terms are unfair. UKI are setting out the types of contract disputes for 
which they are offering cover and whilst there is some variation these are common terms in 
this type of insurance. 
My role requires that I decide if UKI acted fairly and reasonably when declining Mr S claim. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr S entered into a contract with E to hire their legal services. But UKI 
believe the claim isnt covered because of the exclusions listed above.
I went on to explain that I felt the claim had been fairly declined in relation to the final bullet 
point above. UKI responded to the provisional decision and had nothing to add. Mr S 
responded and clarified that his claim was specifically in relation to a breach of contract only 
and wasnt a claim for professional negligence. 
I considered this and accepted that it was possible to make a claim solely for a breach of 
contract without it also being for professional negligence. But when I reconsidered matters, I 
still agreed with our investigators outcome for the reasons hed previously shared. I afforded 
Mr S a further opportunity to comment but received nothing further. 
As such, I can now go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms make clear that there is cover for contract disputes in relation to the hiring of 
services. So Mr S ought to be covered for his dispute with E unless there is an exclusion that 
applies. 
The question to answer then, is does Mr S claim against E arise from or relate to either 
contracts connected with his profession, business, trade or venture for gain or contracts 
connected with Mr S employment other than those covered in the employment dispute 
section of the policy? 
Whilst I appreciate the alleged debt had been sold from one company to another, the order 
that resulted from that debt and which Mr S was seeking Es assistance to have set aside 
arose from his work. As such I dont think UKI are acting outside the policy terms or unfairly 
when concluding that Mr S contract with E arises from a contract connected with his 
profession, business or trade. But for the original dispute that occurred in the course of his 
work, he would never have contracted with E to attempt to have the order set aside. 
UKI also had concerns that Mr S claim might pre-date his cover with them. But as I think the 
claim has been fairly declined for the above reason, this isnt something I need to comment 
on to decide this complaint. 
I also appreciate that Mr S felt he received poor service because UKI made a quick decision 
in relation to his claim which he didnt think theyd took enough time to consider. But UKI did 
engage with Mr S and his representative. They took on board the comments made and 
provided further explanation of the reasons for their decision. And considering Mr S claim 
journey overall, Im not persuaded that poor service was provided for which it would be 
appropriate to make a compensation award. 
And as I think UKI acted fairly when declining the claim, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman