DRN-3607802
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain they were given unsuitable advice by Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
invest in the Barclays Managed Growth fund. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in Mr and Mrs Es complaint and set out the background to 
the complaint and my provisional findings as follows:
In 2001 Mr and Mrs E were advised to invest a total of £17,000 in the Barclays Managed 
Growth fund. They surrendered the investment in 2003 and received around £14,000 back. 
In 2020 they spoke to a claims management company (CMC) who raised a complaint on 
their behalf. The CMC said that Mr and Mrs E were first time investors who were advised to 
invest too much of their available money and take too much risk.
Barclays said they felt the advice was suitable. They said that Mr and Mrs E were left with a 
cash reserve of £27,000 after investing and had £600 disposable income each month, so 
hadnt been advised to invest too much. The fund matched Mr and Mrs Es attitude to risk of 
medium, so the level of risk was suitable too. However, Barclays did pay Mr and Mrs E £100 
for delays in dealing with their complaint.
Mr and Mrs E still felt the advice was unsuitable and so the complaint was brought to our 
service. The CMC said that although they may have felt their attitude to risk was medium, 
the adviser had a duty to make sure the recommendation was suitable. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and felt it should be upheld. She felt 
that as first-time investors, Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have understood the amount of risk they 
were taking, based on the paperwork from the sale. The adviser had only recorded total 
savings of £34,000 (£17,000 after investing) in the paperwork and so that was the figure they 
were advising about  she felt the additional savings may not have been disclosed as they 
were being used for other purposes. The fund they were advised to invest in involved mostly 
equity investments, and the investigator felt this was too much risk for the adviser to 
recommend they take with half their savings. The investigator recommended that Barclays 
calculate the return Mr and Mrs E would have achieved using the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index.
Barclays disagreed, saying that the fund involved around 73% equities and the rest would 
have been invested in fixed interest or cash. They said the other undisclosed savings meant 
they were left with enough in cash after investing. Barclays felt that the benchmark the 
investigator recommended was not sufficiently different from the fund Mr and Mrs E had 
been advised to invest in, as the equity content was around 55% in the benchmark. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
At the time of the advice Mr and Mrs E were both 44 years old. They were self-employed 
farmers who rented the farm on which they lived and worked. They were both planning on 
retiring at 65 and Mrs E had no private pension provision. The adviser noted that Mr E had a 
private pension  but failed to record any details about it, other than to note We have 
discussed the importance of considering pension contributions as soon as convenient in the 
new tax year.
Their joint income was estimated at £18,000 per year before tax, £1,400 per month after tax. 
Their normal monthly expenditure was noted as £800 with an estimated £600 disposable 
income per month. The adviser didnt complete an income and expenditure form with them, 
so theres no detail about the type of expenditure that this included  or how reliable the 
estimates were. There were no debts recorded and the adviser noted they had total savings 
of £34,000, of which they wished to invest £17,000. Barclays have provided bank statements 
that show Mr and Mrs E had around £27,000 in cash after investing, so they do seem to 
have had more savings than the adviser noted. They had no protection policies in place and 
had never invested previously.
Having considered the fact find carefully, I dont think the adviser gathered enough 
information to allow them to give suitable advice. The adviser had an obligation to ensure 
they took reasonable steps to understand Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  including their 
financial situation, investment experience and objectives. They dont appear to have done 
that here  they havent recorded any detail about Mr and Mrs Es pension provisions, and I 
dont think they asked enough questions to accurately ascertain their expenditure. I think its 
fair to say that without getting this information, the adviser didnt do enough to make 
reasonably sure that they understood Mr and Mrs Es circumstances.
I dont know what Mr Es private pension was worth in 2001. I do know that Mrs E didnt have 
one, so would have been entirely reliant on state pension at retirement. In my opinion this 
makes the fact the adviser didnt ask about Mr Es pension provision even less reasonable, 
as thats all theyd have been relying on in retirement, other than state pension. At the time 
of the advice, state pension was less than £80 per week  so at retirement Mrs E at least 
would be facing a substantial change in income. This would have been coupled with the fact 
that they were renting the farm on which they lived  at retirement they would have likely had 
to move which would have involved another change in finances.
I dont think it was reasonable for the adviser to give advice without understanding what their 
provisions were for retirement, given the considerable change in circumstances that would 
be taking place. Mrs E especially would likely have needed to rely on their savings in 
retirement, because of those changes.
Barclays has said theyd have been able to make up for losses incurred on this investment 
due to the amount of time left before they were planning on retiring. Although I appreciate 
retirement was 20 years away, I not convinced theres enough evidence they had enough 
time to both put a suitable amount of money aside for retirement and make up for losses that 
might be incurred in this investment. Though the adviser noted that Mr and Mrs E only 
wanted to discuss lump sum investments and not pensions, theres no evidence of the 
adviser explaining the ramifications of advising them without the information about their 
finances. The adviser had a duty to take this into account to give suitable advice on how to 
invest so its not enough that Mr and Mrs E didnt want to discuss this and Ill explain why. 
If a customer insists on going ahead without disclosing information, or refuses certain pieces 
of advice, at the very least Id expect warnings to be given about the impact this would have 
on the suitability of that advice. This is to ensure that the customer has clear, fair and not 
misleading information about what the adviser thought was suitable, so that they could make a fully informed decision about whether to invest. No warnings were given here  including 
any warnings from the adviser about the impact on their lifestyle which could be caused by 
the types of losses that can be involved in the type of investment that Barclays 
recommended.
The adviser did note a couple of times that the amount to be invested was Mr and Mrs Es 
own choice  but again this isnt good enough. An advisers role is to recommend something 
that in their opinion is suitable for the investor. So, where an investor proposes an amount to 
invest, its still for the adviser to satisfy themselves that investing that amount was suitable 
for that investor, and to account for why they think that. They certainly should do more than 
just accept what the investor wishes to do, otherwise it defeats the object of the advisers 
involvement in the transaction.
I dont think it was suitable for Mr and Mrs E to invest almost 40% of their life savings in a 
fund that involved the level of risk that the Managed Growth fund included, given their likely 
need to rely on this money later in life. The Managed Growth fund is a fund that invests in 
other funds and at the time of the advice, it consisted of 72.95% in UK funds, 26.69% in 
overseas funds, and 0.36% in cash/cash equivalents. There is evidence that some of the 
underlying funds involved fixed interest investments and Barclays has said that the asset mix 
of the funds at the time of the sale, meant that around 73% was invested in equities. I dont 
think this level of risk was suitable given their financial circumstances  its likely they would 
not have had enough money to maintain their standard of living later in life.
Though this wasnt a reason given by the adviser, I have considered the argument that the 
best course of action was to take a slightly higher level of risk with the money, when they 
were still 20 years away from retirement. This would have given them a good chance of 
getting some growth on this investment over that period, and 20 years is a long enough 
period to allow the investment to overcome any short-term volatility. Ive carefully thought 
about whether the advice was suitable with that in mind, despite the capacity concerns I 
have. I still dont think it was suitable, and Ill explain why.
Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs E would have understood the amount of risk involved here. 
Their attitude to risk was noted as medium, but a suitability letter doesnt appear to have 
been sent and theres nothing in the fact find that shows a discussion around Mr and Mrs Es 
attitude towards risk. I understand that at the time the normal process that Barclays advisers 
followed when assessing attitude to risk, involved the adviser explaining the definitions of the 
four available risk levels  risk averse, low risk, medium risk and high risk. Then the 
investors would pick the one that suited them best.
In my opinion the definition of risk averse clearly states that it involves some guarantee and 
a wish to avoid any loss. As Mr and Mrs E didnt pick that category, I think they were willing 
to take some amount of risk. The definitions of low and medium risk were:
Low Risk  You are a reasonably cautious investor. You require a significant proportion of 
your savings to be in cash form. For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared to 
accept fluctuations in capital values to achieve your longer term investment objective.
Medium Risk  You are a more typical investor, requiring a proportion of your savings to be 
in cash form, but less than that of the low risk investor. Again, you are prepared for 
fluctuations in the value of the remainder of your investment, to obtain the prospect of higher 
long term returns to match your investment goals.
In my opinion it would have been tricky for first-time investors to grasp the difference 
between those two risk levels  other than the amount of money the investor is willing to hold 
in cash. For instance, typical investors and significant are subjective terms and could easily sway a consumer to one risk level over the other, without really ensuring they 
understand what the different levels of risk would entail. Because of this I think the risk levels 
are not very clear and would be dependent on the individual investors understanding. 
Theres nothing that sets out the different assets that are likely to be involved in funds at the 
different risk levels  or the types of return and fluctuations that each asset type could 
involve. This is especially important here, given that Mr and Mrs E were first time investors, 
so had no previous experience to inform their understanding.
Ive considered what I think is likely to have happened had the adviser given advice on all 
elements of their circumstances - and done more to ensure that Mr and Mrs E understood 
what they were being advised to invest in. I dont think Mr and Mrs E would have gone 
ahead with investing in this fund. This is because I think its unlikely theyd have wanted to 
expose quite so much of their savings to the large equity content here, given their seeming 
lack of retirement provision  especially for Mrs E. Also, I think their lack of previous 
experience of losing money would have made them hesitate, had they been fully aware of 
the risk of loss and large possible fluctuations in value involved here. I think its likely theyd 
have opted to take less risk overall and Ive set out below how Barclays should put things 
right.
Barclays has also offered £100 for delays in dealing with the complaint. This has already 
been paid and this issue has not been raised by Mr and Mrs E with our service. So, I will not 
be making a finding on this element of the complaint, as its not in dispute.
I then proposed redress based on a comparison of the return Mr and Mrs E received from 
the investment, and the return available on half their money using the average rates from 
one-year fixed rate bonds, and half using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index. 
Responses to my provisional decision
The CMC replied, on Mr and Mrs Es behalf, to confirm they had nothing further to add. 
Barclays replied and said that they agreed with the provisional findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the replies to my provision decision, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings as set out above. I therefore reach the same 
conclusions as in my provisional decision, for the same reasons, and make them final.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs E as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs E would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs E's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs E fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs E's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If Barclays considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs 
E how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs E a tax deduction certificate if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Barclays 
Managed 
Growth fundNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs E wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs E's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs E into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs E would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs E could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs E in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman