DRN-4054857
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc failed to refund transactions she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mrs S saw there were several transactions on her Capital One credit card that she didnt 
recognise and spoke to them about it. These unrecognised transactions that had taken place 
over a two-week period and amounted to over £400.
Capital One looked into what happened and made a temporary refund to Mrs S while they 
carried out their investigation. They identified that a number of the transactions had been 
confirmed after One Time Passcodes (OTPS) had been sent to the registered mobile phone 
number on the account. Another larger disputed transaction had been confirmed after a 
message was sent to the same phone and received a positive response to a security 
question about the payment.
Capital One told Mrs S they were holding her liable for the disputed transactions and took 
back the temporary refund. Mrs S was left unhappy and made a complaint. She was 
represented in the complaint and further evidence about security messages was supplied to 
her representatives. Capital declined to make any refund and Mrs S brought her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. 
Mrs Ss complaint was looked into by one of our investigators when considered evidence 
supplied by both parties. Mrs S confirmed she hadnt made these transactions, nor had she 
lost her card or allowed anyone else to access it. She also said she never received any 
messages from Capital One on her phone and no one else had access to her phone.
Capital One provided details of the transactions including copies of the additional 
authentication procedures carried out. Notes of contact with Mrs S were included including 
the registration of a mobile phone number that was done some months earlier and later 
received the OTPs and text messages from Capital One. 
After reviewing the information, the investigator concluded that the evidence suggested it 
was Mrs S whod authorised the payments. The following was referred to in the investigators 
report:
OTPs and text messages were exchanged with the registered mobile phone for Mrs 
Ss account.
The device ID used to make the transactions matches the device ID used to make a 
previous purchase that is not in dispute.
Two of the merchants had also been used previously without complaint.
No one else had access to the card or phone.
There were gaps in the use of the card to make disputed transactions that didnt 
match usual fraudulent behaviour.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators outcome and continued to deny making the 
payments. Her representatives believed that Capital One were already suspicious of the 
transactions because they temporarily refunded them at the start of the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Capital One can hold Mrs S liable 
for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she 
made them or authorised them. 
Capital One can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs S 
authorised the transactions, but Capital One cannot say that the use of the card payment 
details conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Capital One can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mrs S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
It's Mrs Ss case that she wasnt aware of or authorised these payments. Shes said that she 
never let anyone else use her card or allowed anyone else access to her phone. 
Capital One have provided evidence that several of the disputed transactions needed 
additional authentication steps before releasing the payment in the form of OTPs. These 
were sent to Mrs Ss registered phone. The additional steps were successfully completed 
(meaning the OTPs were correctly submitted after receipt) allowing the payments to be 
released.
One other disputed transaction required a reply to be made from the registered phone in the 
form of a Yes or No answer (Y or N). The evidence shows that the transaction was 
attempted early in the morning and was held by Capital Ones system pending the reply. 
That reply Y was received mid-morning on the same day.
The evidence provided by Capital One points to several disputed transactions needing 
additional security steps to be completed with the registered phone. It seems unlikely that an 
unknown third party could regularly gain access to her phone (and her card details), input 
the codes etc and return the phone without Mrs S being aware of it.
Without those additional security steps, several of the disputed transactions would have 
failed. Ive also thought about the way they were spread out. Mrs Ss claim was that the 
disputed transactions took place over (about) a two-week period. Its unusual to see large 
gaps in the spending of a stolen card because any thief wouldnt know when the card 
would be blocked. Generally (but not always) these types of theft see rapid use of the card to 
maximise the funds taken from it. That wasnt the case here and there was a gap of over 10 days between some of those disputed transactions.
Additional evidence supplied by Capital One showed that Mrs S had previously made 
payments to two of those merchants without any issues. Also that the same device ID had 
been used as part of the security process on a successful transaction made some months 
earlier. What this means is that theres evidence of a previous relationship with some of the 
merchants involved in Mrs Ss complaint and the same device had earlier been used to 
authenticate a payment.
Ive also considered the point raised by her representatives concerning their view that 
Capital One were suspicious because of the refund they made. Generally, when a customer 
raises such an issue with their card provider, theyll make a temporary refund as a matter of 
course. The payment of it doesnt necessarily infer that Capital One thought the payments 
were suspicious, they were reacting to what theyd been told by Mrs S. I dont think here that 
the temporary refund can infer anything about the situation.
Overall, the evidence points towards Mrs Ss card and registered phone being used to make 
these transactions. Because its unlikely that they could have been obtained without her 
knowledge and she denied giving anyone else permission, I think its more likely than not 
that she was responsible for making these payments or allowing others to use her account. I 
think its reasonable for Capital One to hold her liable for the disputed transactions and I       
wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman