DRN-2376581
The complaint
Mrs T complains Homeserve Membership Limited didnt cancel her policy after telling them 
she couldnt afford the renewal quote.
What happened
Mrs T had a home emergency policy with Homeserve, and she received a letter from them
explaining how much it would cost to renew her policy. After considering this information,
Mrs T had her son, Mr T, call Homeserve on her behalf as she couldn't afford the increased
premiums if her policy was renewed.
When Mr T spoke to Homeserve, he explained Mrs T couldn't afford the policy and wanted
to cancel. During this call Homeserve's adviser explained they could offer a slight reduction
on the cost of Mrs T's existing policy. They also offered a cheaper policy, but this came with
less benefits. Mr T says he came away from this call with the understanding Homeserve 
knew Mrs T wanted to cancel her policy. However, a few months later Mrs T noticed her 
policy had renewed at the original renewal price.
Mrs T complained to Homeserve, and after looking into her concerns, they issued their final
response. In this, Homeserve explained they'd listened the call between themselves and
Mr T. They said the call ended with Mr T agreeing to call them back to confirm Mrs T's
decision on the options offered. As Homeserve hadn't heard back from Mrs or Mr T, they
didn't think they acted unfairly by renewing the policy. Mrs T remained unhappy, so brought
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened, but didn't think Mrs T's complaint should be
upheld. Our investigator agreed with what Homeserve had said about Mr T saying he would
call them before the policy renewed. And she didn't agree the call ended with Mr T
confirming his mum's policy should be cancelled.
Mrs T disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint was passed to me to investigate.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2020. And in this, I explained I was minded to 
uphold Mrs Ts complaint  albeit not in the way Mrs T had hoped for. My provisional 
decision explained that I didnt think Homeserve acted incorrectly by not cancelling Mrs Ts 
policy because Mr T had agreed to call them back before the renewal date to confirm 
Mrs Ts decision about her policy. However, as Homeserve were always aware Mrs T 
couldnt afford the original renewal quote, and had made a note on her file that the same 
policy could be offered at a slightly reduced price, then they should have auto-renewed at 
the lower quote when they didnt hear from Mrs or Mr T. With that in mind, I suggested 
Homeserve refund Mrs T the difference between the higher and reduced premiums she paid.
Both Mrs T and Homeserve had until 25 November 2020 to send any further points and/or 
evidence for me to consider. Homeserve had nothing to add, and Mr T responded with the 
following points:
at no point during his call with Homeserve did he say Mrs T wanted to renew her 
policy, or give approval for the policy to be renewed;
the alternatives policies offered arent relevant to the outcome of this case;
he admits he failed to contact Homeserve, but when that happened Homeserve 
should have contacted him;
the refund suggested is a fraction of what Mrs T paid, and Mrs T should receive a full 
refund; and
automatic renewals should be outlawed unless requested by a customer.
Ive taken on board the points made by Mr T, however my decision remains the same. Ill 
explain my reasoning below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking everything into account, I'm upholding Mrs T's complaint, but not entirely in
the way she hoped. 
First, I need to explain that our service doesnt have the power to outlaw auto renewable 
policies. All we can do is look at the circumstances of Mrs Ts individual dispute with 
Homeserve and make a decision on whether she was treated fairly.
I've reviewed Mrs T's policy documents and seen that she had an auto renewable policy.
This means she had to proactively contact Homeserve and let them know she didn't want to
renew before it would be cancelled. So, in this case, I've had to decide whether Mrs T told
Homeserve she wanted to cancel her policy.
Homeserve sent us a recording of Mr T's call with them in which the renewal of her policy
was discussed. During this call Mr T explained Mrs T couldnt afford the renewal quote. And
thats when Homeserves adviser provided two options for Mrs T.
The first option was that Mrs Ts policy would stay as it is, but she would pay £16 a month,
which was £2.50 a month less than her original renewal quote. The second option was that
Mrs T would have the same level of cover but would have to pay an excess if she made a
claim. This option would have cost £12.50 a month.
When the call was ending, Homeserves adviser asked Mr T to call them back to confirm
what his mother wanted to do. Mr T agreed to speak with Mrs T and come back to them.
Homeserves adviser told Mr T theyd make a note of the options available. In light of this,
I dont consider it would have been appropriate for Homeserve to cancel Mrs T policy when
they didnt hear back from her or Mr T before the renewal date. Thats because the call
ended with Mr T saying he needed to get Mrs Ts opinion on what had been offered.Mr T has acknowledged he didnt call Homeserve when he said he would. However, I dont 
agree that either him forgetting to call, or choosing not to, means Homeserve should have 
got in touch with him. Mrs T signed up for an auto renewable policy, so Homeserve didnt 
need her approval, per se, to renew it. And thats why I wouldnt have expected Homeserve 
to chase Mrs or Mr T about the renewal. Moreover, Im satisfied both Mr T and Homeserves 
adviser ended the relevant call with the understanding Mr T would call back to confirm 
Mrs Ts decision. Given that there were options for Mrs T, as the policyholder, to consider  
and Mr T told Homeserve he would discuss things with her, I would have expected Mr T to 
call Homeserve if Mrs T had decided not to continue with her policy. I dont consider its fair 
to hold Homeserve fully responsible for actions outside of their control  namely Mrs or Mr T 
not calling when they said they would.
Having said that, Mr T made it very clear during this same call that Mrs T couldnt afford the
original quote. That point cannot be ignored as that is the sole reason Homeserve offered
the same policy at a slightly reduced price. And its for this reason, I dont consider
Homeserve acted fairly when it renewed Mrs Ts policy at the higher price.
Putting things right
Mr T says Mrs T should receive a full refund of the premiums paid, but I dont agree thats 
fair in the circumstances. Mrs T would only be entitled to this had she (or Mr T on her behalf) 
explicitly asked Homeserve to cancel her policy before the renewal date, and then 
Homeserve didnt act on those instructions. That isnt the case here, so I consider Mrs T 
would have always paid premiums for the period of time she was covered by Homeserve.
Our service can resolve matters on a fair and reasonable basis. And, given the
circumstances mentioned above, it wasnt fair or reasonable for Homeserve to renew
Mrs Ts policy in the way they did. Thats because they knew about Mrs Ts circumstances,
offered the same policy at £2.50 less a month, and proactively said theyd make a
note of this on her file. So, its disappointing to see these notes made no difference to the
way her policy was administered and renewed.
Its for this reason I consider Homeserve should refund the difference between the original 
and reduced quote offered for Mrs Ts policy.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mrs T complaint about Homeserve Membership 
Limited.
Homeserve Member ship Limited should refund the difference in premiums between the 
original renewal quote and discounted quote for the same policy (the policy without an 
applicable excess). And they should do so from the date the policy was renewed, until it was 
cancelled.
Homeserve Membership Limited should also pay interest on the amounts above, at a rate of
8% simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Homeserve Membership Limited to deduct tax from the
interest payment referred above, Homeserve Membership Limited must give Mrs T a
certificate showing how much tax they deduct if she asks them for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman