DRN-3192609
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
wont allow him to cash in his annuity with it. 
What happened
In May 2010 Mr F took his benefits from his pension policy he held with Royal London. Mr F 
submitted evidence from his doctor to show he could no longer work  and therefore Royal 
London allowed him to take his benefits early at age 41. Mr F chose to take a tax-free cash 
sum of £1,189.90 and a pension payable for life of £157.95 per annum.
At the time Royal London provided Mr F with information about his options. Within this 
information it said:
Think very carefully about the type of annuity you want, as you cant change your mind once 
youve bought it
Once the policy is set up you are unable to make any changes, defer payment or cash it in.
More recently Mr F enquired with Royal London if he could stop his annuity and receive a 
cash value in its place. Mr F said the annuity he receives affects his state benefits and hed 
be better off it was stopped. He says since he took the annuity, hes discovered that it is 
possible to take a lump sum if it is valued below £10,000. And that he gets no interest on his 
annuity which wasnt clear to him at the beginning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes 
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12) 
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)   the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is met 
(see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)   the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)  the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and 
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes 
cashing-in of annuities)  was a permissive over-ride.  What that means is the schemes are 
allowed to make these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Fs position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it 
can, but only up to a limit of £10,000. 
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance?
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
Principles for Businesses 
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of 
their business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should 
act in the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the 
expense of other customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without 
consideration of other factors or wider implications. 
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could 
cause issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
this case
1. Does Royal London have discretion to commute Mr Fs annuity as requested? For 
example:
- Is the value under £10,000?
- Is Mr F the legal owner of the annuity?
- Is Royal London the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Royal London is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Fs best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
- Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
- Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Royal London was free to grant Mr Fs request to commute the annuity and doing 
so would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Royal London 
to refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way? 
My findings in light of the above considerations
Royal London hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt 
free to allow Mr F to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have 
discretion to commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr F to show that he would be worse off if he were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Mr F has told us the income from the 
annuity affects his state benefits and so hed be better off once it had been stopped and a 
lump sum paid. However, Im not sure if hes factored in the consequence a lump sum would 
have on his benefits in the short term. I dont know enough about Mr Fs benefit situation to 
comment further but there is potential here that it may not be as beneficial to cash in the 
policy as Mr F thinks  at least in the short term.
That aside, this case comes down to whether Royal London fairly took into account Mr Fs 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mr F to cash-in his annuity. 
Royal London has told us it is unwilling to offer a cash in value to Mr F, essentially because 
the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in  and the terms and conditions didnt 
allow for it. Its said:
- The annuity was designed and sold as an income for life
- To undo this would be at considerable cost and difficulty dealing with re-insurers
- It would need to setup new systems and processes
- It would need to work out a fair way of valuing annuities
- To provide fair values it would need to subsidize this process due to the costs 
involved. And as mutual company it would be its customers and members who would 
have to do so. It doesnt believe this would be fair
It seems to me that Royal London could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were 
to treat Mr Fs case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for 
a business the size of Royal London. However, I acknowledge Royal Londons difficulty 
here. Im not persuaded there is reason in Mr Fs case to treat him differently to other 
customers with small annuities. (Its my understanding that is a significant portion of 
customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr F would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Mr F had a right to. And while Royal London was free to allow his request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on Royal Londons existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost. 
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Royal London to decline Mr Fs 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr F in line with other 
customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in 
the future Royal London changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, 
its possible Mr F may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Royal London must 
change its position at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I wont be 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman