DRN-1158832
 
The complaint
Ms N complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave her loans which she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Ms N took out 12 instalment loans with Sunny between April 2016 and January 2018. Ms N 
says she was in financial difficulty and trapped in a cycle of borrowing.
In its final response to Ms Ns complaint Sunny agreed to refund all interest and charges that 
Ms N paid on loans 9 to 12 on the basis that her borrowing had persisted over 12 months. 
Ms N wasnt happy with that offer and brought her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to have 
given Ms N loans 1 to 4. But at the point of loan 5 Ms Ns borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern and Sunny shouldve done more checks. At the point of loan 6 our Adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldve seen that Ms N was persistently relying on these loans and further lending 
wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that it didnt think Ms 
N was persistently relying on the credit. It pointed out that Ms N was required to use only a 
small amount of her income towards the loans and her application was subject to checking. 
It pointed out that there was a break of around three months between loans 2 and 3 and 6 
and 7. The business repeated its offer to refund all interest and charges incurred from loan 9 
onwards.
Ms N didnt accept that offer so the complaint was passed to me to decide. Before I was able 
to make a decision Sunny reviewed the complaint again and made a the same offer to 
refund all interest and charges from loans 9 onwards. Ms N has already rejected this offer 
twice and so the complaint remains for me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms N could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Ms N could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ns complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms N. It asked Ms N for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Ms Ns credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Ms N loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Ms N hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to four, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Sunny has already offered to put things right in line with what I would recommend for loans 9 
to 12, so I will focus on the loans which remain in dispute  loans 5 to 9.
At the point of loan 5 I agree with the adjudicator that Ms Ns borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Ms Ns borrowing frequency had increased and she had taken loans 3 and 4 
totalling £700 within a month. Those loans were still outstanding when Ms N applied for loan 5 a month later. Taking out this many loans within such a short time frame should have 
prompted Sunny to consider whether this lending was sustainable for Ms N. Her pattern of 
borrowing suggested that she was reliant on short term credit and not managing her money 
responsibly. Ive taken into account the flexibility of this product. They are instalment loans 
with 6 monthly terms but Ms N was taking out overlapping loans and repaying them early, 
presumably to save on interest, but then Ms N had to borrow again. So I think the signs were 
there that Ms N was struggling and Sunny shouldnt have given her any loans after loan 5.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Ms Ns lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Ms N.
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ns case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
 
When Ms N took out loan 6, shed been borrowing almost continually and wasnt 
making any inroads into the amount that she owed.
 
Ms N asked for loan 6 a month after taking out loan 5 and before loans 3,4 and 5 had 
been repaid. I think this pattern of lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood 
that Ms N was having problems responsibly managing her money.
 
I think that Ms N lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards. This is because:
 
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ns indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time.
 
The number of loans, combined with the total length of time Ms N had been 
borrowing from Sunny was likely to have had negative implications on her ability to 
access mainstream credit. This kept Ms N in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
I have taken into account the breaks in lending but I don't think they are significant or long 
enough for Sunny to be satisfied that any difficulty had passed given Mrs N's borrowing 
pattern.
So Im upholding Ms Ns complaint about loans 5 to 9 in addition to loans 9 to 12.
 
Putting things right
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms N towards interest, fees 
andcharges on all upheld loans, not including anything it has already refunded.B.Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms N which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms N originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C. Record any adverse information from Ms Ns credit file about loan 5. The number of loans 
taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about them is adverse. So all 
entries about loans 6 to 12 should be removed from Ms Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ns complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman