DRN-3150685
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd should have refunded the cost of a faulty phone he bought 
using a credit card they provided.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint NewDay but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by NewDay but by Mastercard and the scheme 
operator sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
NewDay processed a chargeback but it was rejected because the merchant said the buyer 
has made no attempt to return the goods to the merchandiser.
But that was wrong. Mr M had tried to return the goods and the seller had sent them back to 
him. Any repair they may have done hadnt been successful. The situation just prior to Mr M 
raising the issue with NewDay appears to have been that the seller was now refusing to 
refund the goods as Mr M had been in possession of them for too long before requesting a 
refund.
The relevant legislation says that, in these circumstances, if goods are faulty when supplied 
the supplier should be given an opportunity to repair them but if the repair is unsuccessful 
the relevant legislation would support the rejection of the goods.
Im persuaded the goods were likely to be faulty when supplied because I accept its likely 
Mr M had bought the phone as a Christmas present for his daughter. I can see his initial 
complaint to the merchandiser was made only a few days after Christmas. I dont think its 
likely Mr M would have tested all the functionality of the phone before Christmas, that would 
have been done once his daughter opened her present, and Im persuaded the phone was 
therefore likely to have been faulty when supplied.
Ive reviewed the messages Mr M exchanged with the merchandiser and I can see they 
attempted to repair the phone and that they sent it back to him. Mr M subsequently emailed 
the merchandiser to explain the phone still wasnt working and at that point the relevant 
legislation would support rejection and a refund.
I think it should therefore have been abundantly clear to NewDay that Mr M had a valid 
chargeback complaint. The phone wasnt of satisfactory quality and he had attempted to 
return it, but the supplier wouldnt accept it and return Mr Ms money.
In those circumstances I think they should have taken Mr Ms claim to chargeback arbitration 
as they would have been likely to succeed.
So, I dont think NewDay have been reasonable.
And, even if Im wrong about that, when something goes wrong and the payment was made, 
in part or whole, with a credit card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the 
money paid through a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
I think NewDay should have considered a section 75 claim even if the chargeback scheme 
provider rejected Mr Ms chargeback claim.
Had they done so I think they would have been likely to conclude there had been a breach of 
contract here as Mr Ms phone was not supplied in satisfactory condition and an attempt to 
repair it had failed. 
In those circumstances I think they should and would have provided a refund.
  
Putting things right
NewDay should refund the cost of the phone and they should add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date they declined the chargeback request until the date of settlement.
Mr M referred his complaint to NewDay in mid-January 2021 and referred his complaint to 
this service in April 2021. He had to chase NewDay for action and I think he could have 
expected NewDay to have taken his chargeback to arbitration and to have considered a 
section 75 claim. In those circumstances I would agree with the investigator that they should 
provide a further £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions 
whilst processing Mr Ms claim have caused him.
 NewDay should   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell NewDay Ltd to:Refund the cost of the phone and add 8% simple interest per year from the date they 
declined the chargeback request until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr M a further £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
whilst processing the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman