DRN-4251137
The complaint
Mr O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
a scam. 
Mr O is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In late 2022 Mr O was the victim of a task scam after being contacted on a mobile 
messaging service app, in which he was told he could earn commission from completing 
tasks that involved rating hotels. Mr O researched the company online finding positive 
reviews and no scam warnings. He was then referred to an agent  that Ill refer to as the 
scammer - who explained the company had changed name and how the job worked. This 
included that he had to open a trading account, which he did, and how the commission 
would be earned from completing hotel reviews. Mr O was added to a chat group with others 
who were similarly completing the tasks. 
As part of the scam, Mr O was convinced to send funds to the scammer so that the tasks 
could be reset, to generate premium orders and to recharge his account  which the 
scammer led him to believe was required so he could receive his profits (commission). Mr O 
sent the funds to the scammer from an account he opened with an Electronic Money 
Institution (EMI), which he funded by transferring money from his Monzo bank account. The 
relevant payments from Mr Os Monzo bank account to the EMI account are:
Date (time) Type Amount
22 October 2022 Faster payment £5
22 October 2022 Faster payment £45
22 October 2022 Faster payment £52
23 October 2022 Faster payment £250.75
23 October 2022 Faster payment £514.99
23 October 2022 Faster payment £698.21
23 October 2022 Faster payment £2,800
24 October 2022 Faster payment £4,670
26 November 2022 Faster payment £500
27 November 2022 Faster payment £500
Total: £10,035.95
Mr O became aware hed been scammed when he couldnt get his money back. He then 
stopped making payments and the scammers cut contact with him. Mr O raised a scam 
claim with Monzo and, shortly after this, C complained to Monzo on his behalf about it. C 
said Monzo failed in their duty of care to protect Mr O from the scam as they never 
intervened with the payments. They considered Monzo ought to have contacted Mr O and 
questioned him about why he was making large, frequent payments to a new payee. And 
had they done so, the scam payments couldve been prevented. C said, to settle the 
complaint, Mr O would accept reimbursement of the monies he lost.
Monzo rejected the complaint. In short, they said:
They requested information from Mr O, when he notified them about the scam, but 
this wasnt received. 
Mr O authorised the payments and, when he made the first one, an online warning 
was provided to him. Mr O proceeded with the payments despite this warning. 
They thought Mr O failed to carry our reasonable due diligence on the scammers (or 
the company). 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code doesnt apply to these payments. 
The payments were made to an account registered in Mr Os name. Therefore, the 
loss didnt occur from the Monzo bank account. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman and our Investigator thought it 
should be upheld in part. She thought Monzo ought to have contacted Mr O when he made 
the £4,670 payment and, had this happened, she thought he wouldve explained the 
payments were relating to a job in which he rated hotels. And that he was making these 
payments to obtain premium orders and recharge his account. Our investigator said this 
ought to have raised concerns for Monzo and, with an appropriate scam conversation taking 
place, they couldve broken the spell sooner. She did however think Mr O ought to take 
some responsibility as the concept of paying money to complete work isnt realistic, and he 
also had suspicions of it being a scam before making the final two payments (yet proceeded 
anyway). Because of this, she recommended Monzo refund 50% of the payments from the 
£4,670 payment onwards  plus 8% simple interest. 
C accepted our Investigators recommendation. Monzo did not and said:
Mr Os losses remains out of their range of liability as the funds were sent to an 
account in his own name and then on to the scammer. The point of loss isnt Monzo. 
Mr O was moving funds to an account in his own name and there wasnt anything 
suspicious about this, as he regularly does so. And the first payment between the two 
accounts was a credit from the EMI account to Mr Os Monzo account. 
Theres no way of knowing whether any intervention couldve broken the spell 
sooner. 
Our investigator added that while the funds were sent to an account in Mr Os name, the 
funds used for the scam came from Monzo and it didnt negate their responsibility to identify 
unusual or out of character payments. And just because payments are being sent to an 
account held in the customers own name, it doesnt mean theyre not at risk of being 
scammed. Monzo should be aware of the various types of scams that involve victims setting 
up new accounts to make it appear legitimate. So, she didnt think it was fair to say that as 
the loss didnt come directly from the Monzo account, they werent responsible in any way 
for it. And she thought that Monzo couldve broken the spell Mr O was under as they 
shouldve been able to identify payments being made as part of a job opportunity as a red 
flag. Monzo remained in disagreement as they didnt think the activity was unusual or warranted 
intervention. They said its not uncommon for customers to send funds between their own 
account accounts. And that the payments Mr O made were genuine and not the scam 
payments, so they had no reason to intervene. 
The matter was referred to me to decide. I emailed both parties on 19 July 2023 to explain:
Id like to clarify my understanding of the loss Mr O suffered from the point in 
which our Investigator considered Monzo shouldve taken additional steps to protect 
him from the scam.
Our Investigator felt Monzo shouldve contacted Mr O to discuss the £4,670 payment 
he made on 24 October 2022. Had Monzo done so, she thought they wouldve 
become aware Mr O was falling victim to a scam and wouldve been able to break 
the spell  resulting in this payment and two subsequent £500 payments not being 
made (totalling £5,670). Our investigator however thought Mr O should bear some 
responsibility for his loss from the scam and so, she recommended Monzo refund 
50% (£2,835) - with 8% simple interest added.
These three payments were sent to another account held in Mr Os own name before 
funds were forwarded to the scammer. Having reviewed Mr Os accounts, they show 
he transferred £1,324.27 back to his Monzo bank account the day after he made the 
£4,670 payment. Because of this, it appears Mr Os loss from the point of the 24 
October 2022 payment is £4,345.73.
It follows that, should I otherwise agree with our Investigators conclusions, then the 
amount to be refunded would be £2,172.87. The 8% simple interest, for loss of use of 
money, should also be calculated from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement  but with the £1,324.27 deducted from the £4,670 payment when 
calculated. This means, interest would be applicable to 50% of £3,345.73 (the first 
payment less the credit received) and the two subsequent £500 payments.
Monzo didnt respond.
C didnt think the £1,324.27 credit should be deducted from the loss calculation as they said 
it cannot be known what these funds related to. They considered it entirely possible the 
credit formed part of one the prior scam payments, such as the £2,800 sent on 23 October 
2022. And so, they requested the amount refunded remain at £2,835.
Now that both parties have had a chance to respond, I can proceed to making my final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to same overall conclusions as our Investigator albeit, as I set out 
in email of 19 July 2023, Ive taken into account the £1,324.27 Mr O credited back into his 
bank account when determining how Monzo should put things right. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But the CRM code only 
applies to payments made to an account held by another person. As the payments Mr O 
made were sent to an account he held in his own name, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether Lloyds should reimburse Mr O under any of their 
other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Mr O knowingly made the 
payments from his Monzo account. I appreciate Mr O was tricked by the scammer as he 
thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments 
were authorised by Mr O. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms 
of his account, Monzo are expected to process the payments and Mr O is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Monzo to 
take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr O to Monzo (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having looked at Mr Os account usage before the scam occurred, it was typically used for 
low value day to day spending with occasional transactions between £1,000 and £2,600. 
Because of this, I dont think the payments prior to the 24 October 2022 were so unusual or 
out of character  including the payment amounts - whereby Id have expected Monzo to 
have intervened at the time.
The £4,670 payment on 24 October 2022 was however for more than Mr O typically used his 
account for. It also followed seven prior payments that were of an increasing value, which 
can be an indicator of a scam, and brought the combined amount to about £9,000 over a 
three-day period. The payments, albeit sent to an account in Mr Os own name, were also 
made to a relatively new payee. And so, while Ive noted Monzos point that a customer 
sending funds between their own accounts isnt uncommon, which they say Mr O himself 
did, I think this payment  along with those preceding it  was unusual and out of character 
for Mr O based on his typical account activity. I appreciate there is a balance for Monzo to 
find between allowing customers to be able to use their account and questioning 
transactions to confirm theyre legitimate, but I consider Monzo had sufficient reason to 
suspect Mr O was at risk of financial harm from fraud here. I therefore think they ought to 
have held this payment and contacted Mr O before processing it.
Had Monzo done so, I think its likely Mr O wouldve been honest in explaining the purpose 
of the payments  that being for to a job involving completing hotel review tasks, and which 
he was told by the scammer required paying to generate premium orders to allow him to 
receive his profits. And that he came across this job opportunity after being contacted on a 
mobile messaging service app. Given Monzos familiarity of scams, including those involving 
completing tasks such as this, I think this wouldve been a red flag. And so, at this point, I 
think Monzo ought to have highlighted to Mr O that there was a significant risk of it being a 
scam and encouraged him to not make any further payments. 
As Monzo has pointed out, I cant know with any certainty whether such intervention 
wouldve broken the spell Mr O was under. But I see no reason to think Mr O wouldnt have 
acted on such advice. I therefore think its reasonable to assume, had he been given a clear 
warning that it was very likely he was being scammed, Mr O wouldve most likely stopped 
making payments to the scammer. It follows that I think Monzo couldve prevented Mr Os 
loss from this point onwards.Monzo has argued theyre not responsible for the loss Mr O suffered as the funds were sent 
to an account in his own name, before being sent to the scammer. Because of this, they 
dont think the point of loss was from Mr Os Monzo bank account. Although Ive considered 
this, as Ive explained, Monzo should take additional steps before processing a payment  
where its identified as unusual or suspicious - to help protect customers from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. And I consider this obligation exists when payments are made 
to accounts in the customers own name (or control). 
Here, for the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied the £4,670 payment was sufficiently unusual 
and out of character for Mr O, based on his typical account activity, to have warranted 
intervention. Monzo should also be familiar with scammers tricking victims into sending 
money to genuine accounts in their own name before forwarding it on to them. And, as Ive 
concluded, had Monzo intervened and stopped Mr O from sending the funds to his own EMI 
account, the loss he subsequently suffered wouldve been prevented. I therefore think 
Monzos lack of intervention led to Mr O suffering the loss he did from 24 October 2022 
onwards.
Ive also thought about whether Mr O did enough to protect himself from the scam, and I 
dont think he did. Although I appreciate Mr O was very trusting of the scammer, I think he 
ought reasonably to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the job offered given the 
requirement to send funds to acquire the profits hed supposedly earned. Particularly as he 
was paying more money to the scammer then he was receiving back. I also think receiving 
an unsolicited job offer via a mobile messaging service app, along with swiftly being told the 
firm had changed name, shouldve been seen an unusual to Mr O - thereby warranting him 
to take greater caution. Furthermore, although I understand C has explained this was out of 
desperation to get his money back, Mr O was suspicious of it being a scam by the point of 
the two final £500 payments and yet still made them anyway. I dont think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Because of this, I think it would be fair and reasonable to 
make a 50% reduction in the award based on contributary negligence in the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
As I explained in my email of 19 July 2023, Mr O credited £1,324.27 back to his Monzo bank 
account the day after making the £4,670 payment. C dont think this should be deducted 
from the amount to be refunded as they suggest it couldve been related to one of the earlier 
scam payments Mr O made. Ive considered this but I dont think that would be fair here. 
This is because, at the point Mr O made the £4,670 payment, his EMI account had a 
balance of only £29.58. And so, given there werent any other funds deposited into the EMI 
account from the scammer before the £1,324.27 was credited back to Mr Os Monzo bank 
account, Im satisfied it came from the £4,670 payment. C hasnt provided any supporting 
evidence that persuades me otherwise. 
I therefore remain of the view that Mr O didnt lose all the £5,670 he sent to the EMI account 
from 24 October 2022 onwards. And so, I consider his loss from the point of the 24 October 
2022 payment is £4,345.73.
To put things right, I think Monzo should refund £2,172.87  that being 50%. They should 
also apply 8% simple interest, per year, for loss of use of money during this time. This 
should be calculated from the date of each payment  £1,672.87 on 24 October 2022, £250 
on 26 November 2022 and £250 on 27 November 2022  to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:Refund £2,172.87.
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, calculated from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement - as set out above - less any tax lawfully deductible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman