DRN-2777689
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The policy covered 
Mr and Mrs F in case either one or both of them was off work sick or lost their job. It was 
paid for with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest.
What happened
I sent Mr and Mrs F and Santander a provisional decision on 15 March 2021, to explain 
why I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold, but did think Santander had to refund some 
of its cost to Mr and Mrs F. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application had a section for PPI. There were three options to 
choose from: one to buy the policy, one to turn it down, and one to consider it later. The 
option to buy PPI was ticked, the options to turn it down or consider it later were left blank, 
and Mr and Mrs F signed specifically for PPI, separately to signing the application as a 
whole. They were recommended the policy  and this was only a recommendation, not a 
requirement, which they were free to accept or turn down. And Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Santanders sales process from the time. So I think that Santander made it 
clear Mr and Mrs F didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, so it had to check that the policy was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that 
it most likely was.
Mr F remembered being self-employed at the time. But I can see from his mortgage 
documents that he was specifically designated as employed, and Mr and Mrs F even 
crossed out the sections for self-employed people as it didnt relate to them. Mr Fs job title 
was that of an employee, and he was paid a salary. The notes clarified that he used to be 
self-employed, but had recently become an employee  which may be why he now recalls 
being self-employed. But unless he can evidence that he was self-employed at the point of 
sale, Im reasonably satisfied that he was an employee at the time. So he would not have 
been affected by any of the exclusions relating to self-employed people. And I cant see 
that he or Mrs F were affected by any of the other main exclusions or limitations, either.
Mr and Mrs F also recalled being entitled to exceptionally high work benefits. But given 
their work situations and relatively short lengths of service with their respective employers, 
the figures theyve given us do not seem plausible. And theyve not as yet been able to 
evidence those figures. It may be that Mr and Mrs F were entitled to higher benefits many 
years later when they were in their positions for much longer. But I dont think its likely 
they had such exceptional entitlements at the point of sale in 2001. I think its more likely 
that they were entitled to a more normal level of work benefits, in which case the PPI 
would have offered them useful additional cover. The PPI would have also paid out on top 
of any work benefits. And it meant Mr and Mrs F could effectively protect their savings and 
use them for other things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save 
another. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, so back in 
2001 there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs F would stay in the same work situations or 
have the same benefits or savings available in the many years to come. And ultimately, if 
they fell behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So it seems most likely 
that the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some 
peace of mind.
Of course, if Mr and Mrs F provide evidence of their employment status and work benefits 
in response to this provisional decision, then Im happy to reconsider the above points.
It is possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to 
have changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs F chose to take out the policy, 
which indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like 
they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs F in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively 
priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And it was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mr and Mrs F could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put them off taking it out. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Santander has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F 
because: 
 Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I currently think that offer is 
fair in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 April 2021. But neither Mr and Mrs F nor Santander sent me anything new to consider
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
What the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. That means Santander should pay back to Mr and 
Mrs F the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share it got was 
more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple 
interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs F can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman