DRN-3969496
The complaint
Mr N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost after falling 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Between 19 July 2021 and 12 November 2021, Mr N made 13 payments for just over 
£61,000 as part of a cryptocurrency investment scam.
Mr N says he was interested in cryptocurrency investment opportunities but had no 
experience, so he searched online and found a company Ill refer to as C. Mr N says Cs 
website looked professional and that C was at the top of the search results. So, Mr N 
completed his contact details on an enquiry form on their website. He was contacted by an 
account manager from C who said they could trade cryptocurrency on his behalf.
Mr N says he was promised a regular income and was told that if he got his investment up to 
£100,000 he would get a return of 5% per month, which would increase to 25% if he could 
invest £200,000. As part of investing with C, Mr N was talked through opening a 
cryptocurrency wallet in his name, which was to be used as a gateway for his funds from his 
bank to C.
Initially Mr N tried to make a payment from his account held with a different bank - not 
Monzo. However, that bank refused to make the payment from Mr Ns account to his 
cryptocurrency wallet. Mr N says they didnt tell him why they wouldnt make the payment 
only that they dont deal with cryptocurrency payments anymore. 
As a result, the account manager at C recommended that Mr N open an account with 
Monzo. Mr N says the account manager explained that banks wanted to keep his money out 
of cryptocurrency as it was a threat to them. So, Mr N opened an account with Monzo in July 
2019 and attempted to make a payment of £5,000 to his cryptocurrency wallet.
Monzo stopped this payment as they identified a risk based on the name of the beneficiary 
and contacted Mr N through their in-app chat service.
As part of the chat Monzo explained we flag some payments for review to ensure were 
doing all we can to protect our customers from scams. We have temporarily frozen your 
account while we look into this transaction and a member of our scam prevention team will 
be in touch shortly to discuss things further.
Monzo asked the purpose of the payment and Mr N told them he was buying Bitcoin.
 
Through the in-app chat Monzo told Mr N they were concerned about his payment and that 
they suspected he was falling victim to a scam. They provided Mr N with a link to a blog on 
their website about scams and asked if they could call him about the transaction. Mr N 
agreed and had a phone conversation with a Monzo staff member.
These are some of the questions that Monzo asked in that call and the answers Mr N gave:
Monzo: Do you have bitcoin or cryptocurrency?
Mr N: Ive started doing a little bit on my own.
Monzo: Have you been getting advice about any of these investments from anyone or are 
you just doing it yourself?
Mr N: No, Im doing it myself.
Monzo: We do see investment scams, they are quite common. We see people contacted on 
platforms like Whatsapp and we always say to check the FCA website as genuine traders 
will be authorised on there. Ill send you a link to more information about investment scams.
After the call ended, Mr N continued communicating with Monzo via the in-app chat.
As part of this chat Monzo sent Mr N a link to their website where he could read more about 
investment scams as well as a scam blog theyd posted. Also, Monzo asked Mr N to send 
screenshots of his cryptocurrency account to prove that the account was held in his name. 
Then, having received the screenshots, Monzo told Mr N that they still had concerns about 
the payment and that they would pass it to a senior staff member for review.
Mr N asked what concerns they had and Monzo told him they were concerned he mayve 
fallen victim to a scam. They provided a warning which said:
Just so you know:
No legitimate investment firm will ask you to buy Bitcoin and then send the Bitcoin to 
your own wallet.
If you purchase cryptocurrency and send it on to someone else, it can be almost 
impossible to retrieve.
If you have been asked by someone else to set up this Crypto account, its possible 
they may have access to the account once you put money into it.
They asked some further questions of Mr N which included:
Whether someone had asked him to make the payment - Mr N told them they hadnt 
and that he was just transferring between his accounts.
When the other bank had declined to make the payment, how Mr N had come across 
Monzo (in relation to him recently opening an account with them)  Mr N said he 
found them online.
Whether Mr N had been asked to download any software that mayve allowed 
someone to take control of his phone  Mr N said he hadnt.
How long Mr N had held his cryptocurrency wallet  Mr N said hed had the account 
just over a month and that originally the payments were made through the other 
bank.
Whether anyone other than Mr N had access to his cryptocurrency wallet  Mr N said 
no they didnt.Monzo also asked whether the money Mr N was sending to his cryptocurrency wallet would 
be remaining in the wallet, or if he intended to send the money on from there. Mr Ns answer 
was that it was probably a bit of both.
Mr N says that as a result of his call with Monzo, he did check the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) website and saw a company with the same name as C but a slightly 
different spelling and assumed that it was the same company.
He also says that on receiving the link to the investment scam advice from Monzo, he asked 
the account manager to email him to prove they worked for C  as theyd only 
communicated over the phone. He says they sent him an email which satisfied him that they 
genuinely worked for C.
Mr N says he received basic coaching from the fraudsters, which is why he didnt honestly 
answer some of the questions Monzo asked him.
In October 2021, Mr N received contact from C saying that his account was being liquidated. 
As a result, Mr N would lose his investment balance of £190,000 unless he paid a brokers 
fee and capital gains tax  so Mr N made the requested payments.
By the end of November 2021, Mr N hadnt received the funds from his investment and 
realised hed been the victim of a scam  so he reported it to Monzo.
Monzo contacted the beneficiary bank but were unable to recover any of Mr Ns funds. They 
considered Mr Ns fraud claim but declined to refund him saying theyd made the transfers in 
line with Mr Ns payment instructions and that Mr N ignored their warnings and concern 
when he tried to make the first payment. 
Mr N wasnt happy with Monzos response, so he brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  They 
explained that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) doesnt apply as Mr Ns 
payments went from his Monzo account to a cryptocurrency wallet in his name. And, while 
Monzo had asked open and probing questions to try and identify if Mr N mayve been the 
victim of a scam, the answers he gave prevented the bank from uncovering the scam.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators opinion raising the following points:
Hed only had light coaching and the fraudsters had set the scene by explaining why 
a bank wouldnt want him to make a cryptocurrency payment  this affected what he 
told Monzo.
Banks know about fraudsters coaching customers and Monzo shouldve asked more 
questions to get a broader understanding of the circumstances.
Monzo shouldve specifically referred to cryptocurrency investment scams, how they 
work and what to look out for.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Monzo is expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account and the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs).
As the investigator explained, the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply to this case, as Mr N made the payments to an account in his own name before 
sending the funds on to C. This means I cant consider the payments under the framework of 
the CRM Code.
But there is an obligation on Monzo to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers 
from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and 
identifying suspicious activity that appears out of character. In situations where potential 
fraud is identified, I would expect Monzo to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the 
customer.
In this case, Monzo says they identified a risk based on the beneficiarys name in respect of 
Mr Ns first payment to his cryptocurrency wallet. As a result, they contacted Mr N through 
their in-app chat to find out more about the payment, and also called Mr N to discuss the 
payment.
Im satisfied that Monzo have intervened appropriately by both chatting to Mr N in-app and 
by calling him. I can see that they asked him several questions that I wouldve expected 
them to ask including: what the payment was for; whether Mr N had checked the investment 
company on the FCAs website; whether hed been asked to download any software that 
would give someone control of his phone; whether he opened his cryptocurrency wallet or 
whether he was asked to do it by someone else; why the other bank had declined to make 
the transfer for him; why he had opened an account with Monzo; whether he was getting 
advice on investing or whether he was doing it himself; and why his cryptocurrency account 
balance was low and how the original payments to his cryptocurrency account were made.
Monzo also told Mr N multiple times they were concerned that he was making the payment 
as the result of a scam and sent him links to their website, so he could read information 
about investment scams and other general scams.
Im satisfied that its more likely than not, that if Mr N had answered Monzos questions 
honestly the answers wouldve suggested to Monzo that Mr N was the victim of a scam and 
that they couldve prevented his losses. However, because Mr N didnt provide honest 
answers, he prevented Monzo from identifying the risk and asking further appropriate 
questions.
I appreciate that Mr N says the fraudsters coached him on what to tell Monzo, but Monzo 
asked some of the questions more than once and in slightly different ways, but each time   
Mr N gave an incorrect answer. Im not satisfied that the fraudsters explanation to Mr N that 
banks didnt want him to invest in cryptocurrency was sufficient reason for him to believe it 
was reasonable to lie to his bank. Especially as he lied about why he was opening an 
account with Monzo saying hed found them online, rather than telling Monzo C had 
recommended them to him  which wouldve raised concerns for Monzo.
Based on the answers Mr N gave, the tell-tale signs that he was the victim of a 
cryptocurrency investment scam werent presented. The sort of answers that wouldve 
suggested this to Monzo include: Mr N being told to open a cryptocurrency wallet by C and 
the fraudsters talking him through how to do it; Cs recommendation that Mr N open an 
account with Monzo in order to make the payments; and Mr N being asked to send money 
from his bank account through a cryptocurrency wallet rather than directly to C for 
investment. If Mr N had provided genuine answers to those questions, I think it wouldve opened the way 
for Monzo to ask more probing questions around the company he was investing in, how he 
had found them and what checks he had done on them. Also, it wouldve allowed Monzo to 
make suggestions on how Mr N could check that the company was genuine and give more 
specific warning advice. Its also worth noting Monzo did provide some scam warning advice 
to Mr N and provided him with a link to information on investment scams as well as 
suggesting that Mr N check C on the FCAs website. And, based on this, Mr N says he did 
check the FCA website and asked the account manager at C to email him, so he had proof 
they worked for C. This suggests that what Monzo said resonated with Mr N to some degree. 
Having listened to the call Mr N had with Monzo, he answered the questions confidently and 
there wasnt any indication that he was uncertain or wasnt sure of the answers he was 
giving, which also mayve been a prompt for Monzo to go further in their questioning.
I appreciate that Mr N feels that Monzo should be aware that customers are often coached 
by fraudsters on what to tell their bank. But Im not satisfied that I wouldve expected Monzo 
to take further steps than they did in this case. They asked Mr N appropriate questions 
through the in-app chat, had a call with him, and then asked further questions through the in-
app chat. And, as Ive already said, some of the questions were asked more than once. 
Monzo didnt intervene with any of the further payments that Mr N made as part of the scam, 
which is appropriate in these circumstances. The further payments Mr N made were to the 
same beneficiary, spread out over the space of three months and werent sufficiently larger 
than his first payment that I think they shouldve been identified by Monzo as concerning or 
warranted intervention. Especially taking into account that the account was only recently 
opened so there was no previous account usage to compare his scam payments against.
Monzo contacted the receiving bank to try and recover Mr Ns money, but as the funds went 
into a cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ns name, any funds that couldve been recovered 
wouldve been available to Mr N to withdraw. So, Im satisfied that Monzo took appropriate 
steps to try and recover Mr Ns funds.
I realise that Mr N is going to be very disappointed as he has lost a lot of money to this 
scam. But Im satisfied that Monzo took reasonable steps when they identified a risk with   
Mr Ns first payment, and I think they asked appropriate questions to try and identify if Mr N 
mayve been making the payment as part of a scam. On that basis, I cant fairly hold them 
liable for Mr Ns loss or ask them to refund Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman