DRN-1550094
The complaint
Mr S complains that Society of Lloyds increased his insurance premium on renewal as a 
result of a pending conviction. He complains that he hadnt yet been prosecuted and he was 
defending his case  so it shouldnt have been considered a pending conviction.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr Ss car insurance fell for renewal with a syndicate of Society of Lloyds 
 Tokio Marine Kiln (Ill refer to it as TMK in this decision). At renewal, he told TMK that he 
had been notified of a pending prosecution for speeding which he was intending to defend. 
As a result of this, TMK loaded or increased Mr Ss premium by around £86. 
Mr S successfully defended the prosecution, and notified TMK of this in January 2019. He 
was told the additional premium would be refunded to him  and it was on 4 February. 
Mr S complained  he didnt consider it fair that an admission he made in good faith was 
considered a pending conviction, when in fact he ought to be presumed innocent until 
proven guilty. And he also considered the amount of the additional premium to be too much. 
TMK and Society of Lloyds responded to Mr Ss complaint  but didnt consider theyd done 
anything wrong. In short, they explained that they made no distinction between a pending 
conviction or prosecution at the time of being told about this  but would reassess the risk, 
and therefore any additional premium, at the point at which a conviction is overturned or 
successfully defended. They explained that this is what happened in Mr Ss case. 
Mr S remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint but didnt consider it should be upheld. 
In short she explained that any reference during the complaint process to pending 
conviction as opposed to pending prosecution was an oversight  but it didnt make a 
difference to the key issue. Loading the premium as a result of a pending prosecution was 
something TMK was entitled to do because this was something which it considered 
increased the risk to the policy (and was one of the questions on the insurance statement of 
facts). She explained that she didnt agree this meant that TMK had assumed he was guilty 
of an offence  this was merely its process for assessing risk. And she said that once Mr S 
notified it that he had been acquitted of the charges, TMK returned the additional premium to 
him without delay. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the fact he was defending the 
prosecution is crucial to his case because in English Law a person is innocent until proved 
guilty. He said that the investigator had found in favour of a firm which had in effect broken 
this rule. 
Mr S maintained that at the time of renewal, he notified his insurers that there was a pending 
prosecution and also explained that he was defending it  he said this meant it was never a 
pending conviction. He said that the insurer had no right to assume a worst case scenario 
and they should never have considered the case as a pending conviction. He said that, in 
support of this, he had also been offered a speed awareness course in the notice of intended 
prosecution. If he had taken this option , he legally wouldnt have needed to inform the insurer about it. Mr S acknowledged that the increased premium was refunded to him a 
couple of months after he had paid it  but he thought it wasnt fair that he shouldve been 
out of pocket at all for any period of time given that he was subsequently acquitted of the 
charge. 
Mr S said that it was grossly unfair for the underwriter to impose a 25% increase in 
premium for what was a relatively minor incident. He said his last speeding conviction was 
some time before (he had driven over 100,000 miles since then). Mr S said he wanted an 
apology from the Lloyds, as well as a promise from it to review its underwriting practices for 
the future. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint, and profoundly disagrees that it was 
fair for TMK to act the way it did. And I can understand why: Mr S disclosed something in 
good faith, something he knew he would be acquitted of. He didnt expect to be penalised by 
the insurer for this  and I can certainly understand why he felt this was akin to the insurer 
assuming hed be found guilty. 
But, having said all this, Im not persuaded that TMK did in fact assume his guilt or act in any 
way that was unfair or unreasonable. It had no role in his actual prosecution. It simply had to 
make a decision, at the point of renewal, about the risk his policy represented  and decide, 
based on its underwriting criteria, how much it would charge him. When deciding what 
premiums to charge for an insurance policy, TMK was entitled to make assumptions about 
what facts or issues it considered would affect the level of risk a policy carried. It has 
explained that its underwriting criteria views pending prosecutions as likely to increase the 
risk to a policy and for this reason, an additional premium is payable. Im not persuaded any 
of this was inherently unfair or unreasonable. The fact that there were alternatives to 
disclosing a pending prosecution which wouldnt have led to an increase to his premium I 
dont think is relevant  he didnt, after all, pursue any of those alternatives at the time 
because he was defending his case. 
And crucially, TMK  has also explained that once notified that the outcome of a pending 
prosecution is an acquittal (or even where it is notified that a conviction has been 
overturned), it will reassess the risk of a policy and look to refund the additional premium 
where necessary. In Mr Ss case, once he notified it that he had been acquitted, this is what 
it did.
So whilst I fully accept that Mr S wont agree, Im not persuaded TMK has acted unfairly and 
unreasonably. 
I note that Mr S has also questioned the size of the additional premium he was initially 
charged. I dont consider it would be fair, given that it was refunded, to comment on this, 
other than to say that in the specific circumstances of this case, I agree with TMK that Mr S 
didnt have to accept the premium he was quoted. He couldve decided to go elsewhere if he 
thought the additional money he was being asked to pay for the policy was excessive or not 
competitive. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman