DRN-3353715
The complaint
Miss F complains because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim under her 
travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss F held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by IPA. The policy was purchased
on 9 December 2020 and cover started on 22 December 2020.
Miss F was due to travel abroad on 23 December 2020. The accommodation she was due to
stay at had been booked on 2 November 2020, and her flights were booked on 28
November 2020.
On 21 December 2020, the country which Miss F was due to visit announced it would be
suspending entry of UK citizens into the county due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Miss F therefore couldnt travel, and she made a claim under her policy with IPA for her
unused flights and her share of the accommodation costs.
IPA said Miss Fs claim wasnt covered under her policy. It said the trip had been booked
after an announcement about new UK government lockdown restrictions had been made,
and therefore it considered the claim was due to a known event which Miss F was aware of
at the time of booking.
Unhappy, Miss F complained to IPA and to this service. One of our investigators looked into
what had happened and said he didnt think IPA had acted unfairly or unreasonably by
declining Miss Fs claim. Miss F didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me. I made my 
provisional decision about Miss Fs complaint in February 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my provisional decision about Miss Fs complaint.
I understand there were no restrictions on entering Miss Fs intended destination at the time
the trip was booked, but insurance policies dont cover every situation. An insurer is entitled
to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium
and its up to a policyholder to make sure they buy a level of cover which suits their needs.
The limits of IPAs obligations to Miss F are set out in the insurance contract she purchased.
Section A of Miss Fs policy, at page 20 under the heading Cancellation or curtailment
charges, says IPA will pay for certain irrecoverable unused costs if a policyholder is unable
to travel for one of the following reasons that are listed as insured:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to
travel with (which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy
payment legislation, and at the time of booking the trip or one-way trip there was no
reason to believe anyone would be made redundant).
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the 
cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip or one-way trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
When Miss F bought her policy, IPA also provided her with Enhanced Cover in response to
Covid-19, the details of which were set out in an email. This provides cancellation cover if a
trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1. Trip cancellation due to COVID-19 or another infectious disease
A. Your policy will cover you, subject to the normal terms, when it is necessary to
cancel your trip because:
1. You or a close relative fall ill with COVID-19 or another infectious disease before
you travel.
2. The UK Government require a person insured by your policy to quarantine or
self-isolate on the date you are scheduled to depart from the UK.
3. A family member you were due to stay with has to quarantine or self-isolate and
you have nowhere else to stay.
Miss Fs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons which are listed above.
Instead, Miss Fs trip didnt go ahead because of border restrictions imposed by a foreign
government. There is a section of her enhanced cover that insures against a foreign
government denying entry  but this doesnt extend to situations that are related to Covid-19.
The relevant section of Miss Fs enhanced cover says:
2. Trip cancellation due to government restrictions
A. Your policy will cover you, subject to the normal terms, when it is necessary to
cancel your trip because your specific destination overseas is subject to any of the
following travel restrictions that are not related to COVID-19 or another pandemic
or known event:1. The UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against travel.
2. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs or local authorities are denying entry.
3. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs or local authorities require a person insured by your
policy to quarantine or self-isolate on arrival.
So, Miss Fs claim didnt arise from an insured event which her policy provides cover for.
This means her claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of her policy.
In any event, Miss F selected for cover under her policy to start on 22 December 2020. The
border restrictions in question were announced on 21 December 2020  so the reason for
this claim arose before Miss Fs cancellation cover commenced.
Furthermore, Miss Fs policy excludes claims for:
Any circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance or at the time
of booking any trip that could reasonably be expected to result in a claim.
I dont think this is an unusual exclusion. Travel insurance is designed to cover events that
are unanticipated, unexpected and unforeseen at the time a trip is booked.
I dont agree that the lockdown announcement which IPA has referred to is the reason why
Miss Fs claim isnt covered under her policy. But, Miss F booked her trip against a backdrop
of ongoing travel restrictions which had been in place in one form or another since 17 March
2020 when the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) first advised
against all but essential international travel due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
This claim arose from Covid-19 travel restrictions, and Im satisfied these were a known
situation at the time both the insurance was purchased, and the trip was booked.
I understand Miss F says the UK government was trying to get travel going again at the time
the trip was booked, and that Miss Fs intended destination was exempt from FCDO advice
against all but essential travel on her intended departure date. But these points dont change
my decision that Miss Fs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy
she holds with IPA. Nor is the fact that Miss Fs representatives claim may have been
covered under his travel insurance policy of any relevance, as that claim relates to a different
situation.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss F but I dont think IPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by
declining her claim, so I dont intend to direct IPA to do anything further.
IPA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss Fs representative replied to say he felt 
Miss F had been mistreated by IPA, and the policy had been bought in good faith at a time 
when travelling was acceptable. He also said Miss F was being penalised because Covid 
was not mentioned in her original policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything Miss Fs representative has said. But these points dont 
change my findings that Miss Fs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of her 
policy, and I dont think IPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining her claim. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I wont be asking IPA to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman