DRN-1636871
 
The complaint 
Mr F complains that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance Banking Services (Kent 
Reliance) unfairly declined his application for a further advance. Mr F says the application 
shouldnt have gone ahead to begin with which would have avoided him incurring costs. 
What happened
In March 2017 Mr F took out a mortgage with Kent Reliance. As part of the lending process 
a valuation was carried out. Mr Fs property was valued at £560,000. A loan for £414,120 
(including £8,120 for fees) was provided on a 75% loan to value (LTV) product, with an 
interest only repayment term. The valuation report did not mention the proximity of the waste 
handling site to his property.
In July 2019 Mr F applied for a further advance of £87,000 through a broker. On the 
application to Kent Reliance the propertys estimated value was quoted as £580,000. The 
existing loan amount was quoted as £406,000  which excluded the £8,120 of fees added to 
the loan.
The application form confirmed a non-refundable intermediary advice fee of £399 was 
payable to the broker on application. It also stated that the application would not be 
processed until payment is received for the administration fee and valuation fee. Mr F chose 
the booking fee of £888 to be added to his loan. Because the loan did not go ahead this fee 
wasnt paid.  An administration fee of £130 was paid directly to Kent Reliance.
A couple of weeks later a valuation took place. The property was valued at £560,000. This 
time the proximity of the waste handling site was mentioned. Later that month Mr F was told 
by his broker that the application has been declined for the following reasons:
Kent Reliance would only agree a maximum borrowing of 75% on the property value;
this decision was made due to the proximity of the waste handling site and the fact 
that only 13 (out of 153) properties, within  mile radius had successfully sold within 
the last 12 months;
Kent Reliances minimum borrowing amount is £15,000. Considering the property 
value and outstanding loan amount, the maximum LTV requirement would only allow 
for additional borrowing of around £5,000.
 
Mr F complained to Kent Reliance. He said he paid almost £1,000 of fees following receipt of 
his agreement in principle (AIP). He says the proximity of the waste handling site should 
have been known to Kent Reliance from the point of his initial application in 2017. And this 
should have been considered before the AIP was issued and fees incurred. 
Kent Reliance didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said that the decision to decline the 
application was made by its underwriter following the information contained in the valuation 
report. It was not willing to overturn any lending decision or refund any fees. Mr F brought his complaint to our service. An investigator looked into things and felt Kent 
Reliance didnt do anything wrong during the lending process. Mr F didnt agree, so the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr F, I think our investigator has reached a fair 
outcome. Ill explain why.
I must firstly mention that because this complaint has been brought against Kent Reliance I 
can only comment on its actions and not that of any intermediaries or third parties. 
I appreciate Mr F is not complaining about Kent reliances commercial lending decision. But I 
think in this situation its important to highlight how the lending process works in general. 
An AIP is meant as an indication of what lending might be possible and isnt a formal offer. It 
is subject to underwriting and valuation. This was provided to Mr F by the broker, so I have 
not seen a copy. A lender is not expected to carry out any thorough checks prior to issuing 
an illustration or an AIP (either directly or through a broker).
A Further Advance European Standardised Information Sheet (ESIS) was provided by Kent 
Reliance that makes it clear this document does not constitute an obligation for Kent 
Reliance to grant you a loan.
The ESIS stated the loan amount to be granted as £71,044. The property valuation was 
assumed to be £580,000 as stated on the application. The document made it clear that the 
property needed to be valued at least £570,769 to borrow the required amount. Kent 
Reliance and third-party fees were made clear. And it was highlighted which were payable 
on application and/or non-refundable. 
Mr F said the ESIS stated a maximum borrowing up to 85%. I have not seen this stated 
anywhere on the document. Mr F may be referring to the AIP, but as Ive explained Ive not 
seen a copy of this.
Following receipt of the valuation report, it was noted that the property had been valued at 
£20,000 lower than the estimate of £580,000. The proximity of the waste handling site was 
also mentioned. 
Ive looked at both valuation reports. The waste handling site is mentioned in the 2019 report 
under section 11 general remarks. This section is available for the surveyor to provide free 
text information they think is relevant to the valuation of the property (there is no specific 
question on the form about this). Whilst the surveyor did think the proximity to the waste 
handling site impacted the valuation figure, it did recommend the property as a suitable 
security for mortgage purposes. 
I cannot hold Kent Reliance responsible for the original surveyor choosing not to mention the 
waste handling site in the 2017 report. Kent Reliance is entitled to rely on the opinion of a 
professional third party and take any information provided into consideration for each lending 
application.
The valuation report said the property was worth £560,000. This increased the LTV to 88%. 
Kent Reliance made the decision to limit maximum borrowing to 75% which I dont think is 
unreasonable, especially as this was in line with the limitations of Mr Fs existing loan. This meant that the maximum Mr F could borrow was around £5,000 and less than Kent 
Reliances minimum loan amount of £15,000. So, I dont think it was wrong to decline the 
application.
Fees incurred
The only fee paid by Mr F to Kent Reliance on application was the administration fee of 
£130. This fee was payable on application and non-refundable. I dont see any reason why 
this should be refunded. Because the lending didnt go ahead the booking fee of £888 was 
not charged and added to any loan as agreed. 
The broker fee of £399 was payable to the intermediary on application and non-refundable. 
Because the application was submitted through a broker, they arranged the valuation and 
any fee was payable to them. Because these fees were not charged by Kent Reliance, I 
cant consider these as part of my decision. If Mr F is dissatisfied with these fees, he needs 
to take this up with his broker. 
To summarise I dont think Kent Reliance has done anything wrong during its lending 
process. I say this because I cannot hold it responsible for the surveyors valuations. I would 
not expect Kent Reliance to carry out any further checks before issuing documents for 
illustration purposes and Ive not seen anything that suggests its lending decision to be 
unfair. As such. I will not be asking it to refund the £130 administration fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman