DRN-3362948
The complaint
Ms L complains that London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) mis-sold her a personal 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L had an income protection policy with an insurer Ill call F. In 2014, Ms L met with an 
adviser from L&C to discuss her protection requirements. He recommended that Ms L 
should cancel her policy with F and take up a new policy which was underwritten by an 
insurer Ill call V. Ms L chose to do so and V set-up a policy. The policy provided cover for 
Ms Ls own occupation. The policy would provide cover until Ms L reached the age of 65; 
included a deferred period of three months and attracted a monthly premium of £506.57 per 
month. The policy provided Ms L with a potential monthly benefit of £5000 if she became 
incapacitated and was unable to work.
In May 2020, Ms L underwent surgery and was no longer able to work in her own 
occupation. So she made a claim on her income protection insurance policy. V accepted the 
claim, but paid Ms L a significantly lower monthly benefit than shed expected  around 
£1925. Thats because it calculated the monthly benefit based on her personal tax return. 
This showed an income of substantially less than £5000 per month.
Ms L complained to L&C. She considered itd mis-sold her income protection policy. She 
said shed requested that the policy should cover her limited companys income. And she 
hadnt been told that her personal tax return would be used to calculate the monthly policy 
benefit.
L&C didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. It didnt agree that its adviser had mis-sold the policy to 
Ms L. So she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt the 
available evidence showed that Ms L had told L&C that her income was £122,771 in 2013. 
So he considered the monthly benefit itd recommended was appropriate given such an 
income. And he was satisfied L&C had made it sufficiently clear that monthly benefit would 
be calculated based on a policyholders income at the time of the claim, which might affect 
people whose income fluctuated. Therefore, he didnt think L&C had mis-sold the policy to 
Ms L.
Ms L disagreed. She provided evidence from her accountant which showed he considered 
the policy had been sold incorrectly. And she provided evidence from V which stated that her 
personal income at the time she applied for the policy had never supported a monthly benefit 
of £5000. She said L&C had only considered her company income but sold her a personal 
income protection policy. This policy had never covered her companys monthly expenses.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms L, I think L&C has treated her fairly and Ill 
explain why.
At the start, Id like to reassure Ms L that while Ive summarised the background to her 
complaint and her detailed responses to our investigator, Ive carefully considered all shes 
said and sent us. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each point shes 
raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues.
Theres no dispute that L&Cs adviser recommended that Ms L should take out the income 
protection policy. This means, in line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, they 
needed to check it was suitable for Ms Ls needs. And they also needed to provide her with 
enough information to decide if the policy was right for her. So Ill explore whether I consider 
L&C met this obligation, based on the available evidence and what I think is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances.
First, Ive looked carefully at the fact-find that the adviser carried out with Ms L in June 
2014. It seems this was an in-person meeting to establish Ms Ls financial needs. In brief, 
the fact-find document sets out Ms Ls personal details  her age and her self-employment in 
a limited company. It says that Ms L felt she was paying too much for her policy with F and 
also that she wanted to cover a shortfall between the term of that policy and her mortgage 
end date. The fact find document states that Ms L wanted to:
Ensure that in the event of (her) being unable to work, that (she) had an ongoing income so 
(she) can afford mortgage, bills and current lifestyle, as if (she) did lose her income she 
would not be able to do this. (She) want(s) a three month deferred period to keep costs 
down.
The fact-find also shows that Ms L told the adviser that she needed £60,000 worth of cover 
per annum for a 13-year period. And that her income for the previous three years had been 
as follows (this is referred to as dividends on the fact-find, but L&C has told us that this 
does refer to Ms Ls income):
2011: £142,395
2012: £164,971
2013: £122,771.
L&C has also sent us a copy of a document Ms L provided to it at the time of application. 
This document was a tax calculation for the year 2012-13 issued by HMRC. It states that Ms 
Ls self-employed profit was £122,771. And it states that its this income on which her 
income tax has been calculated. This document refers to Ms L herself rather than the name 
of her limited company and suggests that her personal income for that year was £122,771.
Its clear Ms L feels that she told L&C that she wanted a policy which covered her companys 
income rather than her own. However, while I accept its possible this may have been the 
case and that therefore, Ms L mayve preferred, for example, a key-man insurance policy to 
cover her company or some other form of business protection policy, I dont think the 
available evidence suggests that this was most likely what happened. The HMRC tax 
calculation suggests that Ms Ls personal income, rather than her companys income was 
£122,771 in 2013. This accords with the income figure L&C has recorded on the fact-find. So I dont think it was unreasonable for L&C to rely on this document as evidence of Ms Ls 
income. And the notes in the fact-find dont suggest Ms L indicated to the adviser that she 
wanted the policy to cover her companys monthly expenses as well as her own. I say that 
because the fact-find makes no reference to Ms L wanting to cover company expenses, 
such as her professional indemnity insurance. Instead, they indicate that Ms L wanted to 
cover her mortgage, bills and lifestyle. This further indicates to me that it was reasonable for 
L&C to conclude that Ms L was seeking to cover her personal income.
Based on this evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&C to recommend a policy to 
Ms L which took into account an income of around £122,771 (less tax) and which provided 
£60,000 worth of cover per year. The income information shed provided suggested this was 
a reasonable benefit. I appreciate V may later have concluded that in fact, the income Ms L 
personally earned at inception didnt reflect the monthly benefit that had been set. But I dont 
think this is enough evidence to show that L&C unreasonably placed weight on the evidence 
Ms L provided from HMRC or that it wasnt entitled to do so.
As Ms L was self-employed in a limited company, I may reasonably expect an adviser to 
recommend a policy which included cover for potential dividends. Having checked the policy 
paperwork, I can see that the key facts document says:
If you own a limited company then your income can also include dividend income from your 
business. This is as long as the dividend income is clearly related to your work activities, and 
the dividends are paid from current year annual profits net of tax. For more information 
please see the definitions section for income in the policy conditions.
As such then, I think its clear that the policy Ms L was recommended did include cover for 
potential dividend income. As such, I find this was a reasonable recommendation.
Its also clear that V calculates monthly benefit taking into account a policyholders income at 
the time of claim, rather than the income noted at inception. This may be subject to 
fluctuation  especially in the case of a self-employed person. So Id expect the adviser to 
explain this to Ms L. Following the advisers meeting with Ms L, they sent her a summary of 
their recommendations, known as a reasons-why letter. This letter included additional policy 
information and specifically stated the following:
Income Protection
Claims under income protection policies are based on your income at the time of the claim. 
This could therefore mean that the relevant income might be less than the insured benefit (in 
which case the benefit would be reduced). This point is particularly relevant for clients with 
fluctuating income or for those who are self-employed.
I think this information makes clear how monthly benefit is calculated and the relevant 
income on which its based. So I think the adviser provided sufficient information to bring this 
to Ms Ls attention. I appreciate Ms L is unhappy that V deducts tax from her monthly benefit 
at source, given her premiums are paid from a company account. However, it seems to me 
that V has calculated the maximum monthly benefit due to her in accordance with the policy 
terms. And as Ive set out above, I dont think it wouldve been clear to L&C that Ms L was 
seeking to protect her company, rather than her personal income.
Additionally, I note that based on Ms Ls circumstances, only one quote was produced for 
income protection cover and that was for the policy Ms L took out with V. On that basis, 
given the gap in cover on her existing policy, it seems likely Ms L wouldve had little choice 
but to take up this policy even if she had been fully aware that V would deduct tax at source 
from any monthly benefit it paid her, given its tax obligations. So even if I thought such a point shouldve been made clear (and Im not making such a finding here), in these 
circumstances, I still wouldnt have concluded that Ms L had lost out as a result.
Taking the totality of the evidence into account, I find its more likely than not that L&C acted 
fairly when it recommended a monthly benefit of £5000 for Ms Ls policy. I think it had 
reasonable grounds to conclude that her personal income was £122,771 and that therefore, 
its recommendation took this amount into account. I havent seen enough evidence to 
demonstrate that Ms L specifically told L&C that she wanted cover for her companys 
expenses or that the income shed declared related to her companys profits rather than her 
own income. 
I can also see that the adviser did recommend Ms L a cheaper policy, with a guaranteed 
premium. This met her identified objective of keeping her costs down. The deferred period 
on the policy matches the deferred period Ms L indicated she wanted. And it seems the 
adviser did ask Ms L about existing health conditions, which it passed on to V. All in all, it 
seems to me that the policy the adviser recommended matched Ms Ls requirements based 
on the information and evidence L&C was given. While Ms L may later have found that the 
policy didnt work as shed thought it would, Im not persuaded the evidence shows that this 
was down to any failing on L&Cs part.
So overall, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that L&C acted unreasonably when 
it sold Ms Ls policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman