DRN-3957668
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Euroins AD has declined a claim she made on her travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Ms H was on holiday with her two daughters. They had luggage stolen from a car and 
claimed on their travel insurance policy. Ms H said the suitcases contained everything they 
owned. 
Ms H claimed on her travel insurance policy, but it was declined because the luggage had 
been visible. Euroins said this meant an exclusion in the policy applied. Ms H was unhappy 
with the delays in handling the claim and with the decision to decline it. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought the claim had been fairly 
declined. But she recommended Euroins pay Ms H £100 compensation for poor service. 
Ms H accepted the investigators findings. Euroins didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They disagreed theyd provided poor service because the claim was 
dealt with within the time frame Ms H had been given. They provided copies of the call 
recordings and some information about call wait times. 
Ultimately, this didnt change the investigators opinion. She remained of the view that 
Ms Hs expectations werent managed, and she had to chase for updates. She also thought 
that Ms H had made a straightforward claim and it had taken too long to give Ms H an 
answer. As its not been possible to reach an agreement, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide is if Euroins should pay compensation to Ms H for the service 
she received. 
The relevant rules say that Euroins have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
I think they should pay Ms H £100 compensation because: 
Ms Hs email to her insurers claim handler on 7 September said she wanted to be 
reimbursed as soon as possible and she was having to replace the items urgently 
and, having paid for damage for the vehicles, had only been able to replace 
essentials. She went on to ask that the insurer contact her by phone if there were 
any queries so it could be paid immediately. Ive not seen persuasive evidence that 
these concerns were appropriately acknowledged or responded to. 
Ms H made follow up calls to Euroins. She says she experienced long wait times. 
Euroins provided some general information about their average wait times at the 
time of the calls. But Im more persuaded by Ms Hs testimony. Euroins has had the 
opportunity to provide more information and evidence about the wait times for 
Ms Hs specific calls but it hasnt done so. So, in the circumstances of this case, Ive 
placed more weight on Ms Hs testimony and I accept she had to wait for some time 
to get through to Euroins.
I accept that Ms H was told during the calls about the timescales for handling a claim. 
But it wasnt Ms Hs fault there was a backlog. Ms H had to chase to follow up with 
what was happening. During one of the calls she was told it was chaos and how the 
various issues were impacting on Euroins ability to handle claims. I dont think that 
was reassuring for her at a time when she was clearly worried and anxious about the 
outcome of the claim. 
In another call Ms H explained that she had been told Euroins had everything but 
was then told something wasnt right. She expressed that shed had everything she 
owned stolen and had only been able to replace basics. In a further call she 
explained she couldnt afford to replace the items. I think its clear from the overall 
information that Ms H shared with Euroins that she was under some financial 
pressure and wanted the claim assessed quickly to help alleviate this. She reiterated 
this in a further email to Euroins, explaining that she was in extreme financial 
difficulty as she couldnt afford to replace the items. 
I think there were opportunities for Euroins to address Ms Hs personal 
circumstances and explore this with her in more detail. But instead they reiterated 
the standard timescales which caused her to become increasingly frustrated in a 
situation she was already finding stressful. So, even if the claim was dealt with within 
the relevant timescale, I think there were opportunities to give her an answer sooner, 
bearing in mind the nature of the claim and given what shed said about her personal 
circumstances.
Im satisfied Ms H was caused distress and inconvenience. Its clear from the calls 
she was worried and frustrated with how the claim was being handled, particularly 
due to the financial impact of theft of her personal belongings. I think this could have 
been addressed with more empathy and proactivity. This would have avoided 
additional distress and inconvenience for Ms H. 
Euroins has referred to a previous decision made by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service which says, in summary, that there will be often some distress and 
inconvenience caused by making an insurance claim. Ive also taken into account 
that the claim was ultimately declined. But every case is different. And Ive explained 
why, in this case, I think compensation should be paid to Ms H.   
Putting things right
Euroins needs to put things right by paying Ms H £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. My final decision
Im upholding Ms Hs complaint about Euroins AD and they need to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman