DRN-4298806
The complaint
Mr E complains that Premier Plus Limited sold him a home insurance policy that didnt meet 
his needs and led to him not getting a full settlement on his claim. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr E moved into a new property. He arranged home insurance through a 
broker  Premier Plus.
In December 2021 Mr Es home was burgled with a significant amount of his wifes jewellery 
taken. He made a claim on the insurance for the stolen items. On doing so, he was told that 
the policy had the following limits on valuable items:
There was no cover provided for unspecified items over the value of £2,500.
The limit for cover for valuable items was £30,000.
There was an endorsement that limited cover for jewellery and watches at home 
when not being worn to £10,000 if they were not kept in a safe.
This meant that the settlement offered by the insurer was significantly lower than what Mr E 
claimed for. 
Mr E was unhappy with this. He said while he had been aware of the specified item limit, he 
hadnt been made aware of the overall limit to his valuable items. Or the requirement for 
jewellery and watches to be stored in a safe while at home. He said Premier Plus should 
have made him aware of the limits as if hed known about them, he would have sought cover 
elsewhere. 
He made a complaint to Premier Plus but it didnt uphold it. It said that before Mr E took out 
the policy it sent the documents to him to review, that contained the relevant limit and 
endorsement. So it was for Mr E to check the cover met his needs. It also said it made him 
aware that any items that were worth more than £2,500 would need to be specified with 
valuations provided. And Mr E didnt do this. 
Mr E didnt think this was fair. He said he was aware of the specified item limit and had 
forgotten to take the required action for these, so accepted they wouldnt be covered under 
the policy. But he said he hadnt been aware there was a limit of £30,000 for valuable items 
and that jewellery and watches needed to be stored in a safe. He said when he first raised 
the issue with Premier Plus, it had admitted it hadnt been aware of the endorsement for 
jewellery and watches itself and that it was hidden at the end of the policy documents so was 
unclear. And this shows it was reasonable that he hadnt been aware of the endorsement 
himself. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
he didnt think Premier Plus made the limit or endorsement clear and, as these were 
significant and unusual terms, it had a responsibility to do so. He thought Premier Plus 
should pay the remainder of Mr Es contents claim that hadnt been paid out by the insurer, 
with the exception of items that were worth more than £2,500. He also said Premier Plus 
should pay 8% interest on this amount to make up for the time Mr E had been without the 
funds.
Mr E accepted our investigators outcome, however Premier Plus didnt. It said Mr E was a 
sophisticated customer as he had lots of experience with property insurance as part of his 
job. It therefore said it was reasonable to expect Mr E to read and understand the policy 
documents it provided him with, and these included clear information about the limits of the 
policy. So it thought it had done enough to meet its obligations as a broker carrying out a 
non-advised sale. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance policy is sold by a broker as part of a non-advised sale, as here, the 
broker has an obligation under rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy. This includes 
appropriately highlighting any policy terms or limits that are significant or 
unusual. Then it is up to Mr E to decide whether the policy meets his needs or not.
Here, the policy terms in question are the limit to valuable items of £30,000. And the 
endorsement requiring jewellery and watches to be stored in a safe in order to avoid an 
additional limit of £10,000 for these items. I consider both of these to be significant terms, as 
they have the potential to significantly reduce the settlement that might be paid out as a 
result of the claim. And the endorsement relating to jewellery and watches required Mr E to 
take action in order for cover to not be reduced further. Therefore, Premier Plus had an 
obligation to ensure they were both appropriately highlighted to Mr E. 
Ive considered the information provided to Mr E when he took out the policy. When he 
requested the insurance he asked for a limit of £100,000 for contents. In response Premier 
Plus attached a quotation and explained the following in the body of the email:
I have assumed the following:-
 9+ years no claims discount (and you have not had any claims recently)
 Accidental damage for both buildings and contents has been included.
 That you have no specific single items over £2,500 (these need to be listed individually if 
you do)
 Any items less that £2,500 individually away from the home are included up to a total of
£2,000 (this figure can be increased if you have more items taken away from the home that
total more than £2,000)
 Mobile phones (over £500) and pedal cycles (over £1000) have not been included
In the documents attached to the email, the front page states:
Contents cover: £100,000 contents cover including full accidental damage cover
It isnt until the fifth page of the documents that a limit to the cover for valuables is 
mentioned. And in relation to the endorsement for jewellery and watches it only mentions 
that there may be endorsements applied to the policy. There are no details of the 
endorsement requiring Mr E to store these in a safe. On the basis of this information, Mr E responded to say he would later add on his specified 
items above the value of £2,500. And confirmed he would go ahead with the policy. 
At this stage he was sent the full policy documents including the policy schedule. This 
contained details about the policy limit for valuables and on the final page included the 
endorsement in relation to the jewellery and watches. 
Ive considered this and I dont think Premier Plus met its obligation to make these significant 
terms clear to Mr E. He asked specifically for £100,000 worth of contents. And the 
documents at point of sale appeared to provide this. The limit to valuable items reduced this 
significantly but it was hidden on page three of the document, with no reference at all to the 
endorsement that required the use of a safe. While Premier Plus drew his attention to the 
specified items limit, it didnt explain these further limits and I dont think they were clear 
enough in the policy considering their significance.
Further, in his discussions with Premier Plus in relation to the £2,500 limit for specified items, 
Mr E specifically mentions that he will have some watches and jewellery to specify. This 
should have been enough to indicate to Premier Plus that he would need to be made aware 
of the endorsement limiting cover for these items to £10,000 if not kept in a safe. And that he 
may exceed the limit for valuable items overall. 
Ive considered what Premier Plus has said about Mr E being a sophisticated customer. And 
I agree that he would have a greater understanding than some customers who have less 
experience with property. However I consider the terms in question to not just be significant 
but also relatively unusual when it comes to home insurance. As they arent standard in most 
home insurance policies. And Mr E made his requirements for limits to contents cover clear 
when instructing Premier Plus to assist with his insurance purchase. So I still think it had an 
obligation to make the limit and endorsement clear to Mr E, by highlighting the terms, when 
he was buying the policy. And from what Ive seen it didnt do this.
Based on this, I am not persuaded that Premier Plus met its obligation to ensure significant 
or unusual terms are highlighted in the policy when its sold. So I agree it got something 
wrong and should take action to put Mr E in the position he would have been in had it not. 
Since understanding the level of cover the policy provides for his valuable items, Mr E has 
chosen to purchase insurance elsewhere. I therefore think if it had been brought to his 
attention at the point of sale, then he would have chosen to go with a policy that did cover 
his valuables up to the limit requested without the need to keep the items in a safe. And that 
means to put him back in that position, he should receive payment for his full contents claim. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that Premier Plus should pay Mr E for any additional 
items above what the insurer has already paid for. As Premier Plus made the term regarding 
items above the value of £2,500 clear, this should exclude any items that are above this 
value.
As Mr E should have received payment for these items when he originally made his claim, 
this means he has been without the additional funds for longer than he should have done. 
For this reason Premier Plus should also pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the 
date the claim settlement should have been paid until the date Premier Plus makes 
payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct Premier Plus Limited to:
Pay the remaining amount for Mr Es contents claim, in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions without applying the limit for valuable items or the endorsement for jewellery and watches. This should exclude any single items that are of the value 
of £2,500 or more. 
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the claim should have been 
paid until the date Premier Plus makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman