DRN-2015301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs R bought PPI to protect their mortgage repayments. Neither party can 
confirm where or how the sale took place. The policy gave them protection against 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the 
evidence we do have and what we know about how Birmingham Midshires sold PPI at the 
time. 
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Birmingham Midshires had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that the PPI was optional, and 
they had to agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs R say they were unaware they had PPI, they 
werent told about it and they would never have agreed to it. 
Not surprisingly after such a long time, the paperwork from the sale is no longer available. 
But from the systems records Birmingham Midshires has provided I can see a PPI quote 
was produced and a PPI application form was subsequently returned. There is also a 
systems note showing that Mrs R called to query the inital PPI payments, and detailing 
how this was resolved. This suggests to me they were aware they had PPI and had 
completed an application. 
They only took out unemployment cover, not the much more common package of 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. I think this indicates there was discussion 
about the cover with the bank, and they understood they had choices.
I have thought about Mr and Mrs Rs comments carefully, but I also have to consider how 
long ago the sale was and how that might impact what they remember. I dont doubt they 
have given us their honest recollections. But theyre having to recall things from around 
20 years ago so I can understand they may not remember all the details of the sale after 
such a long time.
Overall, and on balance, I think its likely Mr and Mrs R decided to take PPI 
knowing they had a choice.
Birmingham Midshires recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check that the 
PPI was suitable as part of the sale. Based on what I know of their circumstances, I think 
it seems to have been right for them.
Mr R was entitled to a redundancy package, Mrs R cant recall if she was, but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any work benefits allowing them to protect any lump sum 
payments, giving increased financial stability at what would be an already difficult time. 
They recall they had savings worth between six and 12 months salary but the PPI would 
have allowed them to use these for other living costs whilst not working, or to keep them 
intact for their future needs. 
Mr and Mrs Rs borrowing was secured against their home. Given how serious the effects 
of not keeping up with their mortgage repayments could have been, I think the PPI would 
have been useful for them if they lost their job(s). And they could cancel it any time without 
further cost if their situation changed or if they decided they no longer wanted it.
Its possible Birmingham Midshires didnt give Mr and Mrs R all the information they 
needed before they decided to buy PPI. I cant know when the cost was made clear but 
the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And they dont appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people 
with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types of employment contract). So, I 
dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
Overall, Ive looked carefully at everything Mr and Mrs R have said. This includes their point 
about why would they protect this borrowing when they had savings in excess of its value 
and didnt have PPI on their main mortgage, but for the reasons set out above this doesn't 
change my conclusion about the sale. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Birmingham Midshires doesnt need to 
refund everything Mr and Mrs R paid for it. But Birmingham Midshires has already offered to 
give Mr and Mrs R back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
I understand Birmingham Midshires has already paid this to Mr and Mrs R.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman