DRN-3783648
The complaint and what happened
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont reimburse money he lost to 
an investment scam. 
Mr M became friends with someone who contacted him after having the wrong phone 
number. After a few weeks of messaging and getting to know one another better, the other 
party introduced the idea of investing into crypto currency. At first Mr M wasnt interested as 
he was already trading in stocks and shares, but after suffering a loss, he decided to invest. 
Between November 2021 and January 2022, Mr M invested over £14,000. Just a few hours 
after the last payment Mr M could no longer get into the website, and he noted the other 
party hadnt been in touch for some time. And whilst waiting for a reply, he researched the 
website further, and discovered it was near identical to another, similarly named website. He 
also came across a negative review that indicated the poster had been scammed. He then 
came to the realisation he had been too. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Although he found the bank ought to have 
intervened before allowing a £2,000 payment to leave Mr Ms account on 22 December 
2021, he didnt think an intervention would have unravelled the scam, given the friendship 
that had been built and the research hed said he had done. 
Mr Ms representative has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In 
summary, it doesnt believe its fair or reasonable to make assumptions about whether a 
banks intervention would have made a difference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have broadly come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for the 
following reasons:
There is no dispute that Mr M authorised the transactions. The starting position is 
that hes liable for them, even if he was tricked into making them. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
It isnt entirely clear Mr M has fallen victim to a scam. Neither he nor his 
representative has provided any independent evidence in support of that, and I 
havent been able to locate any information about this venture online. However, I do 
accept the events do have the hallmarks of a scam and so I have proceeded on that 
basis. 
I agree the bank ought to have intervened when Mr M made a £2,000 on the 22 
December 2021. Although strictly speaking this payment was made to a different 
entity to the ones referred to by the investigator in the warning, this was the third 
transactions in one day, of increasing amounts to a crypto exchange. I do accept this 
payment was to a different crypto exchange from the earlier transactions that day. 
 Like the investigator, Im not persuaded an intervention from the bank would have 
unravelled the scam. And Im quite surprised at the arguments put forward by Mr Ms 
representative.  It will know our consideration isnt based on strict liability but what 
position a complainant would have been in but for a business act or omission. 
Therefore in line with our usual process and general legal principles, we go on to 
consider causation  was the bank responsible for the loss?
It might have come to light through any questioning that Mr M had been told about 
the opportunity via a friend; its far from certain he would have revealed anything 
more about the circumstances of that, or how they met  indeed in my experience of 
many similar cases, complainants dont share such personal information even when 
asked. So there wouldnt have been any cause for concern about a friend 
recommending an investment. 
Had the bank gone further and asked if Mr M had done independent research, he 
would have told them he had, just as he has submitted to us. And even had the bank 
provided a scam warning and told Mr M to take further steps to satisfy himself of the 
legitimacy of the investment, Im not persuaded the scam would have unravelled  I 
havent been able to find any independent evidence from the time, or since, to 
indicate Mr M would have been investing in a scam such that he would have 
stopped investing. As I find Mr M would likely have continued making the payments 
even had the bank intervened, it follows that I dont find it responsible for his losses. 
Mr M made the payments by card. But as his money was changed into crypto 
currency before being lost, there wouldnt have been any chance of recovery 
through a chargeback process. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman