DRN-3763952
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of her car, which 
was written off after a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mrs H has a car insurance policy underwritten by Acromas. She made a claim after she was 
very unfortunately involved in an accident and her car was written off.
Initially, Acromas valued Mrs Hs car at £1,225, based on valuations from two motor trade 
guides. 
They later increased that to £1,790 after Mrs H provided evidence in the form of several 
advertisements for similar cars for sale. 
Mrs Hs policy has a £400 excess, so that would need to be subtracted from those 
valuations.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the valuation and complained to Acromas. They maintained their 
offer was fair and reasonable, so Mrs H brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Acromas had done anything wrong. She 
agreed with Acromas that their latest offer was fair and reasonable.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no suggestion that the valuations obtained from the two motor trade guides by 
Acromas were in any way obtained inaccurately.
Weve checked a third guide, using the exact make, model and mileage of Mrs Hs car and 
assuming it was in good condition. That gives a valuation lower than the original £1,225 
Acromas arrived at - and later increased by more than £500. 
Mrs H wants Acromas to value her car at around £4,000. Shes based this on prices 
advertised for similar cars. She says she cant find the exact same make and model for sale.
We dont think its unfair for insurers to value cars based on the motor trade guides. These 
reflect the prices cars are actually sold for, rather than the price advertised.
The copies of advertisements Mrs H has provided relate to cars with petrol engines rather 
than diesel and/or larger engines and/or higher specifications and/or much lower mileage 
and/or unspecified mileage.
I appreciate that Mrs H has provided these only because she cant find an exact equivalent 
of her own car for sale. However, she will appreciate that they arent therefore an accurate 
indication of the value of her own car.
Mrs H has also said that her car may soon come to be regarded as a classic, which will 
increase the value. However, at present, it isnt in fact a classic. And if it had been, Acromas 
wouldnt have insured it.
In summary, Acromas valuation of Mrs Hs car has been carried out in line with what we 
would expect from an insurer. The valuation was fair and reasonable even before Acromas 
increased it by more than £500.
I am very sorry that Mrs H was involved in the accident, which must have been extremely 
traumatic and appears to have been absolutely no fault of her own from the descriptions 
weve seen. But I cant reasonably conclude that Acromas should increase their valuation of 
Mrs Hs car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman