DRN-3983887
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed Hs 
business account.
Mr K, the director of H, has brought the complaint on Hs behalf.  
What happened
H had a business account with Barclays. The terms and conditions of the account say 
Barclays can close it with 60 days notice.
In September 2022 Barclays emailed Mr K with some questions about H. Mr K answered the 
questions.
On 23 September 2022 Barclays sent Mr K a letter to say they were closing Hs account on 
22 November 2022. They said this was due to a risk assessment theyd carried out.
On 13 October 2022 Mr K contacted Barclays by phone. He said hed been away and had 
returned to a letter saying Hs business account was going to be closed, and he didnt know 
why. The adviser he spoke to said that Hs account wouldnt be closed, and the letter was 
related to some details they needed from him about H.
On 27 November 2022 Mr K noticed that Hs account was no longer available on online 
banking. He contacted Barclays, who told him that theyd ask for the account to be 
reopened. It looks like the account was reopened briefly as Mr K was able to continue to use 
it until 6 December 2022, but then it was closed down. 
Mr K complained to Barclays. Barclays said they had made a decision to close Hs account, 
and accepted theyd given Mr K incorrect information about Hs account remaining open. 
They offered £150 for the inconvenience caused to H  which Mr K refused.
Hs complaint was brought to us to look into. Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong by closing Hs account, and he thought the offer of £150 was fair 
compensation for the incorrect information Barclays had given Mr K.
Mr K didnt agree, so Hs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in the sense that Barclays have done 
something wrong which they need to put right. But I think the offer theyve already made to 
do so is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Following a review of their relationship with H, Barclays decided to withdraw their banking 
services. That was a decision theyre entitled to make under the terms and conditions of the 
account, and Ive not seen anything that suggests it was unreasonable. 
Barclays have explained to Mr K that this was due to a risk assessment, and I dont think 
they need to share any more information about this. Barclays have explained their reasons 
to us and I dont think theyve reached this decision unfairly or unreasonably.
I do understand that the closure of Hs account will have had an impact on the operation of 
the business, as Mr Ks explained. But I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in closing Hs 
account, so they dont need to pay compensation for this.
Mr Ks told the investigator he didnt receive the letter giving notice of closure, but the 
investigator explained he was satisfied it had been sent out  and as Ive explained Mr K did 
say hed received this letter in the call he had with Barclays in October 2022.
But theres no dispute that Barclays mis-led Mr K about the status of Hs account during this 
call, by telling him it would stay open. So clearly it came as a surprise when Hs account was 
then closed in accordance with the notice of closure. And this mistake was compounded 
after the closure by Barclays telling Mr K again that theyd reopen the account, before finally 
confirming that they werent prepared to do so.
Barclays have already offered £150 for the inconvenience caused to H by the incorrect 
information they gave to Mr K about the status of Hs account. Ive considered what Mr K has 
said and thought carefully about the impact this error would have had on H. And I think £150 
is fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
H £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman