DRN-2622528
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the interest rate applied to her equity release mortgage with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. To settle the complaint, Mrs B wants Aviva to pay 
compensation equivalent to overcharged interest.
The complaint has been brought on Mrs Bs behalf by her son, Mr H.
What happened
On 3 September 2004 Mrs B took out an equity release mortgage with Aviva. She borrowed 
£215,000 on a product called an Index-linked Cash Release Plan. In common with this type 
of mortgage, no monthly payments are due; instead interest rolls up into the outstanding 
balance. This is repayable either when the borrower dies, goes into long-term care or sells 
the property voluntarily. 
The mortgage can be transferred onto a new property (either wholly or in part, depending on 
the value of the new property). In some circumstances if the loan is repaid early, an early 
repayment charge may apply  and the details of when this might apply and how it is 
calculated are explained in the mortgage offer.)
The interest rate on the mortgage is variable and is linked to movement in the Retail Prices 
Index (RPI), and is subject to a minimum and maximum rate. The mortgage documentation 
states that the interest rate will not be lower than 4.89% per annum or higher than 10.14% 
per annum.
In February 2020 Mr H contacted Aviva with a complaint about Mrs Bs mortgage. Mr H said 
that the interest rate on the mortgage is very high, given interest rates have been low for 
such a long period of time. Mr H said that the equity in Mrs Bs property has been materially 
eroded since she took out the mortgage and that Aviva should pay compensation for this.
Aviva explained that the variable interest rate was set out in the mortgage documentation 
and that interest had been applied in accordance with this.
Unhappy with Avivas response, the complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service by Mr H on behalf of Mrs B. Aviva said that it would only consent to us looking at 
events that had happened in the six years before the complaint was first raised  so only 
issues arising from February 2014 onwards. Our investigator looked at the time limits and 
agreed that anything that had happened before February 2014 was out of time, and there 
were no exceptional circumstances that would allow us to disregard the time limits.
Mr H accepted this and so the investigator looked at the interest that had been applied since 
February 2014. Having done so, she was satisfied that Aviva had applied interest in line with 
the terms of the mortgage agreement. As a result, she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr H has made some further points, which I 
summarise below:
the mortgage agreement linking interest to RPI is fundamentally wrong;
the average Bank of England Base Rate over the period 2014-2020 was 0.45%, and 
Mr Hs own personal mortgage interest rate was 1.9%, which highlights how much Aviva 
was overcharging;
this is a case of a big financial company taking undue advantage of an old lady, weak in 
financial literacy and struggling to understand the full implications and detail of an equity 
release agreement;
there is a specific RPI for mortgages which should have been used and which would not 
have resulted in the overcharging to which Mrs B has been subjected;
the Financial Ombudsman Service prides itself on doing the right thing and with fairness 
at its heart, so it would seem very clear that this mortgage agreement is unfair one-sided 
and unjust, which the Financial Ombudsman Service must recognize and put right.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules say that if Aviva hasnt consented (which it hasnt  and is under no obligation to), 
and there are no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay, I cant look at anything that 
happened more than six years before the complaint was first raised, which was in February 
2020. This means that I can only consider events from February 2014 onwards. I note this 
has been accepted by Mrs B and Mr H, and so I will look only at whats happened since 
then. To be clear, Im not looking at what happened at the point of sale, nor anything relating 
to the advice Mrs B was given to take out the mortgage in 2004.
I will explain that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to consider individual 
complaints from consumers against a financial business in relation to financial products. We 
are independent and impartial, which means that we are not consumer champions, nor 
industry regulators and we do not act for, or represent the interests of, either consumers or 
financial businesses. My role is to look at the evidence in this complaint, in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable, in accordance with our rules (the DISP rules, published by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and in line with the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000. 
The terms on which Aviva offers products to customers is a matter for its own commercial 
judgement. I have no power to tell Aviva how to structure the interest rate on a lifetime 
mortgage product. It is the role of the FCA to oversee and regulate products offered to the 
public. If the FCA thought that linking the interest rate to the RPI is inherently unfair, it has 
powers which allow it to intervene. But as the FCA has not taken any action in relation to this 
type of mortgage, this rather suggests that the FCA is satisfied that using an interest rate 
linked to the RPI is not unfair to consumers.
Ive noted Mr Hs comparison of Avivas interest rate with his own mortgage interest rate and 
with Bank of England Base Rate. Generally, equity release mortgages are priced at a higher 
rate of interest than standard residential mortgages. Aviva is under no obligation to alter the 
interest rate to mirror fluctuations in standard residential mortgage interest rates, or to reflect changes in Bank of England Base Rate  because the interest rate in the contract is linked 
to the RPI. 
When the contract was entered into, Aviva advanced the funds in the knowledge that it 
would receive no interest or capital for many years. And Mrs B knew (from the advice she 
received in 204 from the financial adviser and her own solicitors) that she had the use of the 
money without needing to make any repayment, with this eventually coming out of the equity 
in her home. The product is structured to reflect the fact that Aviva has lent money over a 
long term with no return on its funds until the mortgage. The implications of this on the 
overall amount owed are explained clearly in the annual statements which Mrs B received 
from February 2014 and in the years since  which is the period covered by this complaint.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Aviva has done nothing wrong in applying the 
contractual interest rate to the mortgage. Consequently, there is no basis on which it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to order Aviva to reimburse any of the interest it has charged in 
line with the terms of the contract.
I appreciate that this will be a disappointing outcome for Mrs B and Mr H. I dont 
underestimate Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter, and I take on board his concerns 
about how the equity in his mothers property is affected by this mortgage. But for all the 
reasons given above, Im afraid I have to disagree with Mr H, because Im satisfied Aviva 
hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman