DRN-3187105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd mis-sold six investment bonds 
placed in trust. A complaint was also made that HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd (HSBC) 
failed to properly administer those six investment bonds as professional trustee.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the investment bonds in 1997 and originally invested £25,744.07 in 
each of the six bonds with an annual premium of £5 into each bond. In 2019 the bonds were 
encashed for £516,977 and this sum was distributed to the beneficiaries. The bonds were 
placed in trust with Mr and Mrs M as settlors and trustees.
The bonds were initially sold through Midland Bank Trust Co Ltd and they were also 
appointed trustee. They were taken over by HSBC Trust Company Ltd. So, HSBC are 
responsible for this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M are represented in their complaint. The representative complained to HSBC 
and said:
HSBCs advice was based on an incorrect asset list. 
The recommended fund was too low risk. 
HSBC were unaware they were trustees and failed to carry out any reviews between 
1997 and 2018.  
HSBC did not monitor or change the underlying fund and the premiums were 
invested in one single fund. 
HSBC should have advised to wind up the trust and surrender the bond in 2004 
because the funds would have then fallen outside of his parents estate. 
HSBC responded but their response wasnt accepted. So, the representative contacted our 
service to investigate. Our investigator issued a view explaining why they felt the policy 
hadnt been mis-sold. The representative didnt agree with the view but confirmed he 
accepted what the investigator had said about the risk category of the fund.
 
The representative didnt agree HSBC had acted reasonably as professional trustee. In 
summary, he said: 
HSBC should have reviewed this trust after seven years of poor performance of the 
fund and the advice would have been to wind up the trust. Also, trust law changed in 
2000 and this also should have instigated a review. The purpose of the trust was to 
mitigate IHT and the trust achieved this purpose after just seven years. 
There was also an opportunity to review this trust in 2008. 
A trustee cant avoid their fiduciary duty because no renumeration is received. Their 
terms and conditions show they would have charged per hour. 
A professional trustee is expected to work to a higher level of skill than a lay person. 
But HSBC did not do this. And their duties dont stop once the investment is in place. 
There is relevant case law confirming investments should be actively monitored 
particularly by professional trustees. HSBC breached their duties as trustee on a 
number of counts including their duty to keep records, to act as beneficial owner and 
their duty of care.
HSBC filled in the trust deed and so were acting in a legal capacity. The trust deeds 
were inadequate. 
Theyve not provided evidence of the backdated reviews they say they carried out. 
And evidence the representative has shown the fund was an underperformer for the 
first 15 years of its life. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A significant amount of time has passed since the initial sale of the policy, so there is limited 
information available. This isnt unusual. But it does mean my decision is based on the 
information I do have and what I think is more likely to have happened on balance. 
Id also note the representative has made detailed submissions to our service in relation to 
this complaint. I want to assure him that I have considered everything. But I may not have 
referred to everything he has said. Where a specific point is not mentioned in my decision, 
this is simply because I dont think I need to refer to it to reach the right outcome here.
Sale of the investment
HSBC initially suggested they didnt recommend the bonds. However, Ive seen a copy of 
the personal illustration dated 20 May 1997. This shows Midland Bank Trust Co Ltd (HSBC) 
were due commission and so I think its likely they were responsible for the sale. 
I have considered the concerns that the incorrect asset list had been used at the time. 
However, this isnt sufficient reason for me to conclude the recommendation was unsuitable. 
The investments were placed in trust to be distributed and this would go some way to 
mitigating future inheritance tax (IHT) liability. Im not satisfied the exclusion of a separate 
investment (which was also intended to be placed in trust) from the asset list would affect the 
suitability of the advice. 
Following the view, the representative reviewed information from the provider of the bonds 
and confirmed the investment had been made in an appropriate fund. So, I wont comment in 
detail about this as it seems to have been accepted. I agree the overseas equity fund seems 
to have been one of the higher risk funds available and seems to have been appropriate. 
There is no information or assessment available about Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk from 
the time. 
Id add that it was reasonable for the investment to be made in one fund. This is because the 
fund itself was likely to have been made up of a range of assets. Overall, Im satisfied from 
the evidence available that its likely the recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. 
Trust deedThe representative has said the trust deeds werent drawn up properly because they didnt 
say what would happen in the event one of the beneficiaries passed away. Ive reviewed a 
copy of the trust deed and I can see it was produced by the provider of the bonds. Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for this to be used and it is standard practice. I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to offer a bespoke draft or for this to be within their remit when providing financial 
advice. 
Professional trustee 
HSBC have accepted they werent aware they were appointed professional trustee and did 
not hold a copy of the trust deed. So, its now necessary for me to consider whether this has 
had a detrimental effect. Ive also considered the case law referenced by the representative - 
Bartlett v Barclays Bank Trust Co Ltd (No 2) [1980] Ch 515. I would note the facts of this 
case law are distinguishable from the circumstances of this complaint. For example, the type 
of investment held within the trust is different. Nevertheless, Ive thought carefully about 
HSBCs duty as professional trustee. 
Additionally, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions which set out what HSBC agreed to do 
as appointed trustee. Ive also considered the representatives comments about this. 
Importantly, this included managing the trust to ensure it operated in line with the trust deed 
and appropriate payments were made to the beneficiaries. It also confirmed HSBC would 
review policies and bonds held within the trust and, where necessary dispose or reinvest. 
HSBC have confirmed had they known they were appointed as trustee their investment 
managers would research and assess the performance of major funds, which they would 
then compare against the performance of their holdings. So, this comparison did not happen 
as it should, and the holdings were not checked for underperformance.
 
However, the evidence doesnt satisfy me this has had a particular detriment here. HSBC 
have provided confirmation that their investment managers didnt deem the fund as 
underperforming. I appreciate the representatives comments about the performance of the 
bond at the seven-year mark. But investments can go up and down as they react to various 
factors including market conditions. It doesnt satisfy me that HSBC would have 
recommended surrendering or switching the bonds sooner. So, while I agree HSBC should 
have monitored the investment regularly, Im not persuaded their failure to do so resulted in 
detriment to the trust and I wont be directing them to do anything differently here.
 
Ive also considered the representatives comments about remuneration, and I accept this 
would not alleviate HSBC of their duties as trustee. However, this role is distinct to that of a 
financial advisor who might for instance receive an ongoing advice fee and manage their 
clients finances. HSBCs role was that of trustee, and their terms said theyd review the 
assets within the trust, and not the financial circumstances of the settlors. 
There is no evidence HSBC received or charged such ongoing advice fees and so I wouldnt 
expect them to actively manage or review Mr and Mrs Ms financial position on an ongoing 
basis. There is also no evidence such advice was requested. Id also note they didnt provide 
the advice in 2008 and that was given by a separate entity. 
For these reasons, I also cant conclude HSBC should have advised Mr and Mrs M to wind 
up the trust and surrender the bonds. I appreciate the funds would have been outside of Mr 
and Mrs Ms estate by 2004. But Im not persuaded the fact the investment had been in trust 
for seven years was a sufficient trigger for such advice and importantly this wouldnt have 
been their responsibility as trustee. The investment remained in the trust and outside of Mr 
and Mrs Ms estates for the purpose of IHT mitigation and continued to provide the opportunity for capital growth. So, in the circumstances I think it was ultimately for Mr and 
Mrs M (the other appointed trustees at the time) to decide if they wanted to initiate 
distribution and they could have requested further advice.  
Overall, HSBC should have been aware of their appointment as professional trustee and 
provided the appropriate service. However, the evidence doesnt satisfy me they would have 
done anything differently or recommended action to the trustees. So, I cant say there has 
been a detriment here and wont be asking HSBC to do anything to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman