DRN-1697332
 
The complaint
Mr J says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH) lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says he suffered a deterioration in his finances due to the lending. He thinks that LAH 
shouldnt have lent to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about six home collected credit loans, LAH provided to Mr J between April 
2018 and January 2019. Some of the information LAH has provided about this lending is in 
the table below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedweekly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 18/04/2018 £375 24 02/05/2018
2 20/06/2018 £800 33 23/01/2019
3 15/08/2018 £250 45 06/02/2019
4 19/09/2018 £800 45 06/02/2019
5 21/11/2018 £375 45 06/02/2019
6 23/01/2019 £800 33 06/02/2019
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that LAH shouldnt have approved 
loans 4 to 6 as it shouldve seen that Mr J was having financial problems. 
Both parties to the complaint didnt respond to the adjudicators letter. So, as no agreement 
has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint 
in part and Ive have explained why below.
Mr J didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr J had with LAH. So 
they are something I will take into account when considering the overall lending relationship.
Loan 4 was Mr Js fourth home credit loan in a relatively short period of time. And he hadnt 
repaid loans 2 and 3 when he was given this loan, so his overall indebtedness was 
increasing. 
So I think LAH ought to have realised at that time that Mr J may have some significant 
financial problems that may impact on his ability to repay the loans. LAH shouldve also 
become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Js true financial situation.
So I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Js financial situation before 
approving loans 4 to 6. And I think that LAH needed to verify the information it had been 
given about Mr Js financial position. This is to make sure Mr J was in a position to make the 
repayments sustainably. I dont think LAH did this. So I need to think about what LAH 
wouldve likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr J has provided some information about his financial circumstances at the times loans 4 to 
6 were given, which includes his bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what LAH 
couldve seen at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
By this stage, proportionate checks wouldve also shown LAH that a substantial portion of Mr 
Js income was being spent on gambling. And his financial position had deteriorated as Mr J 
has described. And I think that if LAH saw this, it wouldnt have thought it was responsible to 
lend to Mr J.
I think that LAH wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks.  And 
I think LAH wouldve seen Mr J wouldnt have been able repay the loans in a sustainable 
way. So I think that LAH shouldnt have given loans 4 to 6 to Mr J and I think hes lost out as 
a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 4 to 6. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans 4 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loans 4 to 6 from Mr Js credit file;*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman