DRN-1011002
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont reimburse it for the 
overpaid premiums it has paid under a group private medical insurance policy. The 
complaint has been brought by Mr I, a director of the company.  
What happened
I held a group private medical insurance policy for the benefit of its employees. It paid the 
policy premiums on behalf of those employees, which included Mr I and his wife. Mr I was 
the group policy administrator, and the company address was his home address.
In 2011, Mr I and his wife moved home. They didnt tell Aviva that theyd moved, though if 
they had, then the premium attributable to their cover, and hence the companys overall 
premium, would have reduced. Thats because the cost of the cover included a geographical 
element, and the area to which theyd moved had a lower cost than their previous location.   
In December 2012, Aviva wrote to Mr I and his wife separately about their cover. Each letter 
was returned to Aviva as gone away (in other words, they were no longer living at that 
address). 
In 2013, Aviva updated Mr Is wifes address. 
In 2014, Aviva sent out a letter to the company. As this was addressed to Mr I at his old 
address in his capacity as policy administrator, it was also returned to Aviva as gone away. 
Aviva contacted the broker who gave it the new company address (which was also Mr Is 
new home address). 
In 2018, the broker noticed some of the documents had Mr Is old address and notified Aviva 
of his correct address. This resulted in a reduction to the group scheme premium. Mr I, on 
behalf of the company, asked Aviva to refund the premiums that had been overpaid, but 
Aviva refused. It said it had been Mr Is responsibility to tell it hed moved, and he hadnt 
done so. Unhappy with this, Mr I brought a complaint to this service, on behalf of I. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Aviva hadnt been 
exposed to the level of risk associated with the higher cost location that the premiums had 
been based upon, and it had therefore benefited unfairly as a result. She thought on a fair 
and reasonable basis, Aviva ought to refund the overpaid premiums to the company since 
2011.
Aviva turned down our adjudicators recommendations. However, it later made an offer to 
refund the overpaid premium from 1 December 2012. 
Mr I didn't accept the offer on behalf of I. He said I had paid a higher amount that it should 
have done in National Insurance as a result of the higher premium being charged. He 
thought Aviva ought to compensate I for this. He also thought Aviva should pay interest.
In light of the ongoing disagreement, the matter has been passed to me to consider. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, Mr Is wifes address was updated in 2013 because it was located by a 
system Aviva used at the time to find addresses for people that had gone away.
Although Aviva updated Mr Is wifes address at this time, it didnt update Mr Is address. 
Aviva explains that Mr I and his wife are listed as separate members on the policy, which is 
why Mr Is address wasnt automatically updated at the same time as his wifes. I assume it 
couldnt find Mr Is address on the system it used. 
Aviva became aware in 2014 that the company address had changed. As there was a broker 
associated with the policy, Aviva asked it for the correct company address. Given that it still 
didnt have Mr Is address, I think it could have asked the broker for this at the same time. Its 
also the case that it could have asked for this when it first became aware in 2012 that Mr I 
had changed address, particularly since it was in regular contact with the broker. 
Having said that, I dont think Aviva was required to actively seek to establish Mr Is new 
address. It was Mr I/the brokers responsibility to keep Aviva updated of any change of 
address. 
Its unfortunate that Mr Is address wasnt updated for so long. I see that Aviva wrote to him 
at his new address after 2014, but in his capacity as administrator. I can appreciate how that 
would have been confusing, and may have led him to think Aviva had his correct address. 
But it was still his responsibility to tell Aviva of his change of address at the time he moved. 
Nevertheless, the cost of the policy contains a geographical element, and Mr I and his wife 
moved to a lower risk area in 2011. That means Aviva has received a higher premium from 
the company than it should have done since this date. And our normal approach is that it is 
unfair for an insurer to retain the full premium when it hasnt been running the full risk 
associated with that premium.
That being the case, Im minded to agree with the adjudicator that on a fair and reasonable 
basis, Aviva should refund I the overpaid premiums it has paid since 2011. However, since I 
dont think Aviva were at fault for the overpayment arising, I dont require it to pay interest. I 
also dont require it to cover any consequential losses to I that may have arisen  such as 
National Insurance that I may have overpaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to refund 
the overpaid premiums I has paid since 2011.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I, on behalf of I, 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman