DRN-3299187
The complaint
Mr D complains as the representative of L, a limited company, about British Gas Insurance 
Limiteds response to an escape of water on a home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to British Gas within this decision, this includes its agents and representatives 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
L holds home emergency insurance with British Gas. Following an escape of water at a 
property on 21 September 2020, its representatives contacted British Gas who arranged for 
its agent to attend. They concluded that the escape of water occurred due to cracks in a 
shower tray which needed to be replaced. L arranged for the shower tray to be replaced on 
28 September 2020
On 30 September 2020 L contacted British Gas again to report an escape of water. This was 
the first time the shower had been used since the replacement tray was installed. British 
Gas agent attended and concluded that this was being caused by a poorly installed shower 
tray and that a waste pipe needed to be refitted. British Gas declined cover for the damage 
caused.
On 13 October 2020, a letting agent contracted by L arranged for the shower tray to be 
replaced. At the same time, L says that the contractor replaced an eroded pipe which was 
found to have a hole in it. L says that this should have been identified when British Gas 
attended the property and should be covered by the policy. 
Mr D complained to British Gas on Ls behalf. When British Gas rejected the complaint, he 
referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt think British Gas had done anything wrong. 
Mr D doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering the terms and conditions of Ls insurance policy with British Gas. 
The policy covers All repairs to the plumbing system on your property but goes onto list 
what isnt covered, and this includes showers and their parts, shower pumps, sanitary ware, 
spa baths, seals and grouting. 
The terms and conditions also contain an exclusion for Any other loss or damage, going on 
to say that this means Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of, 
property, furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or 
failing unless we caused it. For example, damage caused by water leaks.
Finally theres an exclusion in the terms and conditions for Pre-existing faults, defined as 
faults or design faults that weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work 
has been completed by a third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to 
a satisfactory standard.
Looking at the notes made when British Gas attended the property on 21 and 30 September 
2020, Im satisfied the source of the escape of water was identified as a cracked shower tray 
(21 September) and a poorly installed shower tray and poorly fitted pipework (30 
September). I havent been provided any evidence from L to suggest that this wasnt the 
case. 
Im satisfied that British Gas could fairly rely on the exclusions Ive highlighted above. The 
policy doesnt cover damage to the shower, or for damage caused to other parts of the 
property by an escape of water. It also excludes faults caused by poor workmanship.
Ive considered whether British Gas should have carried out further investigations on 21 and 
30 September to identify any further sources or causes of the escape of water. Mr D says 
that the first visit should have identified the waste pipe issue which was discovered on 30 
September. I dont agree. On inspecting the shower, the engineer identified that the tray was 
cracked.
It seems reasonable to me that having identified this, then it was fair to conclude that the 
cracked shower tray was the source of the escape of water. Im not satisfied that further 
enquiries were needed to identify additional potential sources, especially considering that the 
damaged shower tray, and damaged caused as a result, isnt something covered by the 
policy.
Mr D also complains about the conduct of the British Gas engineer who attended on 30 
September 2020. He says that they left the property to make a phone call and during that 
time left the water running, causing further damage. I dont think running the water for a 
period of time is necessarily an unreasonable action by the engineer. In order to identify 
where the escape of water was coming from, it seems fair to say that water would need to be 
run for a period of time in order to locate the source. 
Mr D also refers to letting agents who were at the property on 30 September being told by 
the engineer that the works to the pipework would be a two person job, but the engineer 
didnt arrange for another person to attend. I conclude that British Gas werent required to 
make such arrangements  the issues identified by the engineer meant that the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy as Ive highlighted above.
Mr D says that when their own contractor attended on 13 October 2020, they identified that 
the pipework had eroded, resulting in a hole forming which was causing the leak. Theres 
limited information about this which has been provided. While we have photographs of the 
shower unit and damage caused to other parts of the property by the escapes of water, I 
havent seen any photographs of the damaged pipe.
The invoice from the contractor states that they replaced corroded flexi-hose on sink 
drainage but this doesnt confirm that there was a hole in the pipe or that this pipe was the 
source of the escapes of water which have resulted in the claims. Im not persuaded that 
weve been provided sufficient evidence to show that the source of the escapes of water was 
this pipe.
Another reason I say this is because on 30 November 2020, British Gas attended the 
property again following a further escape of water. By that time the pipe had been replaced 
and the engineer concluded that the source was numerous cracks to the tiling and shower 
screen. It seems to me that there are three occasions on which British Gas attended the 
property in connection with escapes of water and each time the source of this was identified as various parts of the shower which had been installed poorly or was cracked. I havent 
been provided with any evidence to refute the suggestion that the shower was in a poor 
condition and that British Gas couldnt reasonably conclude that it was the source. 
Im satisfied on balance that British Gas has demonstrated that the shower was the source 
of these escapes of water and the policy terms and conditions specifically exclude repairs to 
the shower, and also damage caused to other parts of the property by escapes of water. I 
conclude that British Gas has acted reasonably in declining the claims made by L.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman