DRN-3233048
The complaint
Mr G complains about the charges Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander 
Consumer Contract Hire (Santander) asked him to pay for damages and a missing service 
record when he returned a car to them at the end of a lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr G responsible for keeping the car in good repair 
and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the vehicle in 
excess of fair wear and tear.  
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). I note that Mr G has accepted the investigators view on whether the damage 
identified in the inspectors report is chargeable. Id agree with the investigators comments 
here. Each of the four areas of damage is clearly outside of what the BVRLA guidance would 
consider was fair wear and tear and it was Mr Gs responsibility to ensure any repairs 
completed to his car were completed to a satisfactory standard.
Mr G still disputes whether Santander were fair to make a charge for a missing service. He 
says the service required light wasnt working and he didnt think such a new car would 
require a service.
Im not persuaded that even if the service required light wasnt functioning it would be fair to 
suggest Mr G didnt need to have the car serviced or that Santander couldnt charge him for 
services not completed. The terms of Mr Gs hire agreement made it clear he must ensure 
the vehicle was serviced according to the manufacturers schedule. I think a reasonable 
person would expect to have consult that schedule and not rely on the service indicator to 
establish if and when a service was due. The schedule for this vehicle said a service needed 
to be completed every 24 months or every 21,000 miles and the service that was therefore 
due on the car had not been completed.
Im not persuaded that Santander have been unreasonable here and Im not therefore 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman