DRN-3282398
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr K are unhappy HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) declined a claim made under
their landlord property insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr K let out a property they own to tenants, via a letting agent. Theyve owned
the property for a number of years. In April 2020 they took out a policy with HDI to insure the
property.
Shortly after taking out the policy, Mrs D and Mr K discovered the tenant had been using the
property to grow cannabis. And in the process of setting up equipment to do this, theyd
caused damage to the property.
Mrs D and Mr Ks policy contains cover for damage caused during illegal drug cultivation, so
they appointed a loss assessor and made a claim to HDI.
HDI considered the claim, and following submission of information, they declined it. They say
Mrs D and Mr K hadnt complied with the policy requirements for the cultivation of drugs
cover, so they said they didnt have a valid claim.
Mrs D and Mr K were unhappy with this, so via their loss assessor, they approached this
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said that Mrs D and Mr K hadnt complied
with the policy terms for cultivation of drugs cover, so he said HDI hadnt acted unfairly when
declining the claim. But he said HDI took too long reaching a claim decision, so he
recommended they pay £100 compensation.
HDI agreed but Mrs D and Mr K didnt. Their loss assessor also said they never received the
policy documents. Our investigator looked into this and HDI provided evidence that the
documents had been received electronically and opened by Mrs D and Mr K, so his view of
things remained the same.
Mrs D and Mr K didnt agree and an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my thinking before I issued my
final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim decision
Mrs D and Mr Ks policy contains additional cover for illegal cultivation of drugs. And 
the terms say:
Illegal cultivation of drugs cover
We will cover you for the clean up costs and remedial works from the use of the 
premises for the manufacture, cultivation, harvesting or processing by any other 
method of drugs classed as a controlled substance under the Misuse of Drugs Act 
(1971).
Provided that you
1. Carry out internal and external inspections of the buildings at least every 3 
months or as frequently as is permitted under the tenancy agreement and
a. Maintain a log of those inspections and retain that log for at least 24 
months and
b. Carry out a 6 monthly management check of the inspections log
2. Obtain and record a written formal identification of any prospective tenant
3. Obtain and retain a written employers reference for any new tenant
4. Obtain and record details of your tenants bank account and verify those 
details by receiving at least one payment from that account
5. Advise your tenant, where sub-letting is allowed by the tenancy agreement, 
that they must follow the measures laid out in items 2,3 and 4 above for all 
lettings that they arrange.
If you do not comply with the above you will not receive payment in respect of a 
claim.
Therefore, Mrs D and Mr K have cover for damage caused during the illegal 
cultivation of drugs, subject to the terms above being complied with. HDI say they 
havent, so they dont have a valid claim. So firstly, I need to decide whether 
Mrs D and Mr K have complied with these, and subsequently whether HDI has acted 
fairly and reasonably by declining the claim on this basis.
HDI accepts why no inspections have taken place, so doesnt consider point one to 
have not been complied with. They also have been provided with a copy of the 
tenants ID which was obtained by the agent, along with a copy of the tenancy 
agreement, which also doesnt allow subletting and payments for rent have been 
received. So again, HDI accepts points two, four and five have also been complied 
with.
However, HDI has solely relied on point three. As this is the only point HDI have 
relied on when declining the claim and saying Mrs D and Mr K havent complied with 
the terms, Ill focus on this point specifically.
Mrs D and Mr K let their property via a letting agent. And the letting agent finds 
tenants, manages the property and collects the rent on their behalf. The letting agent 
didnt obtain an employers reference from the tenant. Mrs D and Mr K mentioned that the agent had told them the tenant worked nights, but no proof was actually ever 
obtained by the agent. And it was on this basis that our investigator said they hadnt 
complied with the terms and that HDI had acted fairly in declining the claim on this 
basis.
However, based on what Ive seen so far, Im not minded to agree. I dont think HDI 
relying on this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why Im minded 
to reach this conclusion.
The policy terms say that for the illegal cultivation of drugs cover to apply, 
Mrs D and Mr K would need to comply with the listed requirements. And here, 
specifically relating to proof of employment which HDI solely relied on, it says this is 
for any new tenants. In my view this makes reference to future, rather than existing, 
tenants. Whats relevant and important here is that Mrs D and Mr K didnt take on a 
new tenant after the policy started. If that was the case, and they then didnt comply 
with this point in the requirements, I mightve taken a different view  depending on 
the wider details and if that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
But here, Mrs D and Mr K already had a tenant in situ when the policy was taken out. 
And the terms only say an employers reference is needed for any new tenants. It 
doesnt say that it is required for existing tenants. Or that Mrs D and Mr K need to 
retrospectively obtain this information from the existing tenant if they dont have one 
in order for that part of the policy to then apply. So, looking at this point which HDI 
has solely relied on, I dont think Mrs D and Mr K have failed to comply with it, or 
consequently that it is fair and reasonable to decline the claim solely on this basis.
In addition, the policy schedule and statement of fact Mrs D and Mr K were provided 
with also includes sections on a tenancy agreement being in place, which shows they 
agreed with this and that it would be under an assured tenancy or assured shorthold 
tenancy and a regulated tenancy agreement. 
It then goes on to say Background checks and then to show a question HDI needed 
to know the answer to and the answer that was given - the first being:
Checks are carried out on prospective tenants before any tenancy agreement is 
signed  I agree
And then:
Select which checks are carried out:
With the answer showing as:
Background and identity checksSo, there are details about existing tenants which reflect the questions HDI needed to 
know the answer to, and the answers Mrs D and Mr K gave. It mentions background 
and identity checks more broadly, but makes no reference to employment checks 
specifically. Or that this was in connection with the cultivation of drugs cover. Looking 
at this documentation in isolation, it would appear Mrs D and Mr K have complied 
with this too.
If these documents are then read alongside the full terms  including the 
requirements for cover as Ive mentioned above, the full policy terms then still refer to 
a new tenant which as I say, wasnt relevant to Mrs D and Mr Ks position at the time 
the policy was taken out or the claim was made as the tenant was already in situ.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of my provisional decision, Im not 
minded to conclude HDI has acted fairly or reasonably in declining the claim on the 
basis Mrs D and Mr K havent complied with the terms. Consequently, if my final 
decision remains the same, Im minded to direct HDI to reconsider the claim in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions. And to add 8% simple 
interest to any cash settlement due from the date of loss to date of settlement.
Overall service received
Our investigator didnt uphold the claim decision part of the complaint. But he did
recommend £100 compensation for the delay in that claim decision being reached.
But as outlined above, Im minded to conclude HDI didnt reach a fair and reasonable 
claim decision. And Ill take that into account alongside the delays and service 
received when considering whether HDI should compensate Mrs D and Mr K.
Its not unreasonable for HDI to require information in order to decide whether there 
is a valid claim under an insurance policy. And this can sometimes take time to be 
obtained and validated.
The claim was made in April 2020 and a loss assessor was appointed. Additional 
information was needed and was provided to HDI by Mrs D and Mr Ks loss 
assessor. This included both information about the tenant and tenancy, along with 
additional information surrounding the scope of repair works being claimed. And from 
my review, it appears that following correspondence with the loss assessor, HDI had 
everything it needed to reach a claim decision by October 2020.
However, the claim wasnt reviewed until February 2021 by the underwriters, some 
four months after HDI was provided with the information theyd asked for  and in my 
view had enough to be able to reach a claim decision. And the claim decision wasnt 
then relayed until March 2021. So, it does look like there were avoidable delays here. 
These delays are also recognised in HDIs notes that its provided to us.
Mrs D and Mr K made HDI aware of their personal circumstances. But despite this, 
HDI avoidably delayed in reaching a claim decision. And as I say, Im minded to 
conclude that the claim decision was unfair overall too, along with it taking an 
unreasonable amount of time to get to that point.Its clear that the claim being both delayed and declined has been particularly 
distressing given Mrs D and Mr Ks wider circumstances (which HDI are aware of) 
and has had a considerable impact on them. They say they were unable to complete 
repairs or to let out the property at the time as a result. And at this stage I think HDI 
reached the wrong claim decision which caused that impact and distress to 
Mrs D and Mr K. So, I think they should be compensated for that, and the delays and 
service overall.
Unless anything changes as a result of my provisional decision, along with 
reconsidering the claim in line with the remaining terms, Im also minded to direct HDI 
to pay Mrs D and Mr K £500 compensation.
But I should be clear here that there is also cover for loss of rent under 
Mrs D and Mr Ks policy. The compensation Im minded to recommend isnt to cover 
that. Ive said Im minded to say HDI need to reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions. So that would include considering any insured 
events such as potential financial losses including loss of rent in line with the 
remaining terms. Therefore, the compensation recommendation is just that, rather 
than to cover insured financial losses at this stage.
If my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision and Mrs D and Mr K 
accept it, and after this they are ultimately unhappy with whatever settlement is 
offered by HDI (including additional financial losses such as loss of rent), they would 
need to raise this with HDI in the first instance.
So, I was minded to uphold Mrs D and Mr Ks complaint and to direct HDI to reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and to add 8% simple interest to any cash settlement 
from date of loss to date of settlement. I also said I was minded to direct them to pay 
Mrs D and Mr K £500 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs D and Mr K responded and accepted my provisional decision. They didnt provide any
further comments in response to it.
HDI also responded accepting my provisional decision, and didnt make any further
comments either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the provisional findings I reached, and I havent changed my 
mind. As both parties accepted my provisional findings and didnt make any further 
comments, Ive no reason to depart from those. So, my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty SE to:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Add 8% simple interest* to any cash settlement from date of loss to date of 
settlement
Pay Mrs D and Mr K £500 compensation
*If HDI Global Specialty SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K and Mr D how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs D and Mr K a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman