DRN-3864752
The complaint
Mr S complains AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) did not communicate with him fully after he 
made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He said this caused him financial loss after he 
was forced to use his other car after a courtesy car was not provided.
AXA are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the intermediary. As AXA have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
intermediary, in my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the intermediary.
There are several parties and representatives of  AXA involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to AXA.
What happened
On 11 August 2022 Mr S was involved in an accident with a third-party. Mr S had a motor 
insurance policy with AXA, and he made it aware of the accident.
AXA organised for his car to be taken into storage and for it to be inspected and a decision 
would be made about repairs.
The third-party insurer accepted liability on 24 August 2022.
Mr S said the service given by AXA was poor whilst it was dealing with his claim, and it did 
not provide him with a courtesy car whilst his car was being repaired.
AXA accepted the level of service offered had fallen short of an acceptable standard. AXA 
apologised and paid Mr S £350 to recognise the inconvenience caused to him.
As Mr S was not happy with AXA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said the 
compensation offered was fair. They said there was no evidence of a financial loss when 
using his other car. However they said AXA should pay the alternative travelling costs. As 
per the terms of the policy this means 14 days at £15 per day. 
As Mr S is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim handling
I saw at the start of the claims process AXA initially recorded Mr Ss car as a total loss due to 
the cost of the repairs being estimated to be more than the pre accident valuation of the car. 
Mr S refused for AXA to collect his car as he was insistent the car was to be repaired and 
would not accept his car was a total loss.
AXA said it would get its in house engineers to review the estimate on repairs. 
I saw evidence in the weeks following the accident that Mr S sent AXA multiple emails 
asking for an update on his claim. He also made some phone calls. There were some 
responses from AXA, but I found the responses were sometimes confusing and included 
duplicated requests for the details about the accident and third-party. 
I saw the third-party insurer sent confirmation to AXA on 23 August 2022 that their customer 
accepted fault for the accident. It said it was dealing with Mr Ss claim and AXA could close 
its file. I also saw Mr S told AXA on 25 August the third-party insurer had offered to deal with 
his claim and he had accepted the offer.
On 10 September 2022 Mr S contacted AXA requesting assistance. The repairs to his car 
were authorised and it agreed his car would be repaired.
In October 2022 AXA accepted it did not deal with Mr Ss claim in a clear manner and to an 
acceptable standard at all times. It said it should have provided Mr S with a courtesy car and 
liaised better with the third-party insurer regarding the handling of his claim. It sent him £350 
to recognise the inconvenience caused to him. 
I understand this will have been a very stressful time for Mr S and I accept there was some 
confusion during his claim. However I think £350 is a fair amount in the circumstances of this 
complaint and I wont be asking AXA to increase its offer.
Courtesy car
Mr S said he should be paid for car hire from the date of the accident on 11 August 2022 
until his car was returned repaired on 4 October 2022 which is a total of 59 days. 
AXA said it was only unable to supply a courtesy car for five days from 11 August 2022 until 
15 August 2022. I saw that it did try to arrange for a courtesy car for Mr S with its authorised 
car hire company when he made his claim.  However there was an issue with Mr S providing 
the required identification for the car hire which caused a delay. 
I saw on 22 August 2022, AXA offered to pay Mr S the alternative travel costs of £15 for 14 
days. It also advised him to contact the third-party insurer to organise a courtesy car. 
The alternative travel costs were offered again during phone calls in the following few days. 
Mr S said he was not prepared to accept this as it was not enough to pay for car hire. 
Mr S said he used an alternative vehicle during the time he was without his car, he did not 
pay to hire another car. But he said he has suffered a financial loss because the alternative 
vehicle he used devalued during the time he used it. 
I have not seen any evidence to show there has been any financial loss.
I  looked at the terms and conditions of the policy regarding courtesy cars. On page seven of 
the policy booklet it says;
If your car is repaired by one of our approved repairers, you will be supplied with a
courtesy car while your car is being repaired. 
If a courtesy car cannot be arranged, we will repay your alternative travelling costs up to a 
maximum of £15 per day.The maximum time we will pay for alternative travelling costs is up to 14 consecutive days.
During the claim there was question if Mr Ss car would be classed a total loss or be 
repaired.  If the car was classed as a total loss a courtesy car would not need to be provided 
as per the terms and conditions of the policy.
As it was agreed Mr Ss car would be repaired, as per the terms and conditions of the policy 
he should have been supplied with a courtesy car or paid alternative travel costs. In this 
case that means the maximum time of 14 days is due.
I saw Mr S contested this and he quoted another section in the policy. Within the policy it 
was possible to add on an optional courtesy car upgrade cover. If this had been added an 
additional payment and additional length of courtesy car cover may have been due, however 
Mr S had not included this optional cover. 
As AXA have made an offer as per the terms of the policy, I am unable to ask it to do any 
more. AXA it should organise for 14 days at £15 per day (£210) to be paid to Mr S if it has 
not already been paid.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not require AXA to do any more in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman