DRN-3684463
The complaint
Mrs T complains to National Savings and Investments (NS&I) as she feels the interest rate 
theyre paying on her investment should increase. Shes also unhappy they wont allow her 
to cash her investment in.
What happened
In January 2018, Mrs T invested into a NS&I three year bond which paid 2.2%. Shortly 
before that was set to mature in January 2021, NS&I wrote to Mrs T to ask her what she 
wanted to do with her money  whether she wanted to re-invest in a similar product, re-
invest in something else or to cash it in. Mrs T allowed the proceeds to roll over into a new 
bond. This was explained as follows:
Option 1: renew for another 3-year term
On its maturity date your Guaranteed Growth Bond will automatically start a new 3-
year term at the new rate of 0.40% gross/AER*, unless you choose option 2 or 3. 
Even if the rates on offer for Guaranteed Growth Bonds fall between now and the 
maturity date, you'll still earn the rate quoted above if you renew your investment for 
a further term of the same length. If the rates go up between now and the maturity 
date, you will receive the higher rate.
So in January 2021, almost £12,000 was reinvested with NS&I into their three year 
guaranteed growth bond which paid 0.4%. Given the above explanation, Mrs T says she 
understood that the interest rate wouldnt fall, but if the base rate rose throughout the three 
year term then her bonds interest rate would rise too.
Some months later, although the base rate began to rise Mrs Ts bond rate remained at 
0.4%. So in February 2022, she got in touch with NS&I and enquired about moving her 
money into a different bond offering 1.3%. NS&I explained this wasnt possible as Mrs T had 
agreed to invest for three years. Mrs T wasnt happy about this  she said she was told the 
interest rate could go up and that this had persuaded her to leave her money with NS&I. 
So Mrs T asked for our help. She explained she was in her 80s and so the interest paid on 
her investment is very important to her  she must make as much as she can from it. She 
also said that there is usually the option to withdraw your money from an investment, even if 
you lose the interest that would have been paid  but this didnt seem to be an option for her.
While waiting for our help, Mrs T continued to pursue the matter with NS&I as she was 
conscious that as each month passed she was missing out on higher interest rates 
elsewhere. Though Mrs T was hopeful for a resolution, NS&I confirmed that cashing in early 
wasnt possible. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened but didnt think NS&I had done 
anything wrong  she didnt think theyd said the bonds interest rate might go up during the 
three year term, only that it might increase before the term commenced. She thought the 
issue was that NS&I and Mrs T were interpreting the Option 1 explanation differently  
NS&I meant that if rates rose before the term commenced, Mrs T would receive the higher 
rate. But Mrs T thought NS&I meant the higher rate would be passed onto her throughout 
the term.
Mrs T didnt agree. She said NS&I ought to have been clearer about what date they were 
referring to and pointed out that the 0.4% rate had nothing to do with the maturing bond, only 
the new bond. She said there shouldnt be ambiguity involving finances and if shed read this 
incorrectly, others will have too. She was quite clear that she wanted her money withdrawn. 
As no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to consider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the crux of Mrs Ts complaint centres on the what was meant by maturity date 
in NS&Is letter dated 15 December 2020. 
Mrs T read NS&Is letter to mean that if interest rates rose throughout the term of her new 
three year bond, her interest rate would go up. But NS&I meant that if the interest rate rose 
before the term commenced, the bond rate would go up. The difference here was in the 
reading of maturity date  Mrs T thought the maturity date was the end of the new bond, 
whereas NS&I meant the maturity date was the end of her existing bond. 
Ive thought carefully about this and considered the wording of the letter closely. But having 
done so, I think maturity date meant the end of Mrs Ts existing bond. I say that because 
the beginning of NS&Is letter included details about her existing bond  it noted the account 
number, value, interest rate and term  and within this, it said the maturity date was 
14 January 2021 which was quite clearly her existing bond. NS&Is explanation of Option 1 
also showed the maturity date was that of the existing bond, they said On its maturity date 
your Guaranteed Growth Bond will automatically start a new 3-year term
At another point in the letter, when NS&I wanted to refer to the maturity date of the new bond 
in 2024, they said new maturity date rather than just maturity date. And when they 
wanted to refer to the new interest rate, they said the new rate of 0.40% gross/AER*
What NS&Is letter to Mrs T in December 2020 was therefore saying was that the rate on 
offer was 0.4%, but if they raised rates within the next four or so weeks before her new bond 
began, shed receive the higher rate. For this reason, I dont agree with Mrs Ts interpretation 
of the letter and that NS&I ought to be increasing her interest rate now. 
I also dont agree NS&I are under any obligation to allow Mrs T to cash her bond in early. 
Near the beginning of the December 2020 letter, NS&I included text within a box to increase 
its prominence  the subtitle said We've made an important change to NS&I Guaranteed 
Growth Bonds and they explained that bonds couldnt be cashed in early and instead had to 
be held for their full term. The only exception was the right to cancel within the first 30 days. 
They referenced that theyd previously allowed early access to cash in before the end of the 
term with a penalty of losing some interest, but that was now changing, so investors ought to 
ensure they wouldnt need to access their money within the new term. 
The second page of the letter reconfirmed this point  a subtitle said Important  please 
read the customer agreement before you decide and went on to explain that renewing the 
bond meant making a commitment to keep it for a further investment term. The key features 
said The Bond is designed to be held for the whole term. You cant cash it in before the end 
of the term. and the customer agreement mentioned it too  under a subtitle No 
withdrawals until maturity it said A Guaranteed Growth Bond is a fixed-term investment and has to be held for the full term.  This means that you wont be able to reinvest or withdraw 
your money until it matures. I think this was quite clear. 
So from everything Ive seen, NS&I didnt tell Mrs T her interest rate could increase 
throughout the duration of her three year bond. And they were also clear that she wouldnt 
be able to cash the bond in early. Although I understand Mrs Ts concern given the rates 
now on offer and appreciate her need for securing the best return she can, I dont agree with 
her interpretation of NS&Is letter.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman