DRN-4070260
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) has said in future, that it may cease providing 
him with an account if he continues to bring complaints that they deem to be unjustified.
What happened
BoS investigated a large volume of complaints brought by Mr E since October 2022. 
Following this, the bank said it would look to monitor whether it could continue to provide a 
bank account to Mr E because of the number of unjustified complaints logged. Unhappy with 
BoS response, Mr E raised a complaint. 
BoS looked into Mr Es concerns and issued a response. The bank explained it hadnt closed 
any of Mr Es accounts so apologised for any misunderstanding, but they did confirm that as 
a large series of unjustified complaints were being raised by Mr E, this indicated there was 
an issue. As such, BoS said there was a possibility in the future that the bank could review 
whether it could continue to offer accounts to Mr E.
Mr E remained unhappy with BoSs response, so he referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for Mr E. She thought BoS hadnt acted unfairly. Mr E 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr E will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Es accounts. This says BoS can end 
their services to a customer for a number of reasons. So, whilst BoS hasnt taken steps to 
close Mr Es accounts, I think if it chooses it no longer wants to retain Mr E as a customer in 
the future, it has legitimate commercial right to decide this.
I say this because account notes provided by BoS show that there has been a long list of 
complaints the bank has deemed to be unfounded. Ive also listened to a call between Mr E 
and the complaints adviser. Im satisfied the adviser took the time to consider and respond 
to Mr Es points and explain that if he was unhappy with the policy and processes the bank 
had in place, he may wish to rethink whether BoS services were suited for him. I 
acknowledge Mr E was left frustrated by this, but I dont believe the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in providing the answer that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman