DRN-2972892
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to inform her that the agreed payment 
plan would be recorded on her credit file.
What happened
In October 2020 Ms M contacted Lloyds to discuss the remaining balance on her credit card. 
Ms M was attempting to re-mortgage her property and intended to clear the balance once 
the re-mortgage was accepted.
A payment plan was agreed, whereby interest would be suspended. Ms M was not told this 
payment plan would be recorded on her credit file. She discovered it was when her 
mortgage offer was withdrawn by her lender.
Ms M complained, she felt that she wouldnt have proceeded with the plan had she been told 
it would be recorded. She felt that Lloyds had caused her mortgage offer to be withdrawn as 
a result. She explained how along with further costs this had caused her significant upset, 
particularly as she was planning on using the funds made available to buy out an emotionally 
and financially abusive ex-partner from joint ownership of her property.
Lloyds agreed that it should have provided further information at the time, and that Ms M 
would not have gone ahead with the plan had she known. It removed the plan from her credit 
file, provided Ms M with two further months of no interest on her credit card, and paid £150 
for the trouble and upset its mistake had caused. Ms M didnt accept this offer, as she felt 
that Lloyds should also be responsible for the mortgage offer being withdrawn, and the 
subsequent costs and interest charges she incurred as a result.
Our Investigator felt that the offer was fair in the circumstances, as they couldnt be satisfied 
that the main cause of Ms Ms upset and financial loss  the withdrawal of the mortgage offer 
 was as a direct and sole result of Lloyds error.
Ms M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. She felt strongly 
that Lloyds was solely responsible for the withdrawal of her mortgage offer, as the same 
lender had offered her new terms after the payment plan had been removed from her credit 
file. She didnt feel that the offer made was a fair reflection of the upset caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Lloyds failed to tell Ms M the payment plan would show on her credit 
file, and both parties are also in agreement that had she known Ms M wouldnt have 
proceeded with the plan. So, my decision will focus on whether the offer Lloyds has made is 
a fair reflection of the impact its error had on Ms M. Ive considered whether Lloyds was 
responsible for Ms Ms mortgage offer being withdrawn.
Ms M has provided emails from her lender showing that it requested further information from 
her. It said it had concerns about the payment plan that had been put in place, but also had 
concerns about an increase in her unsecured commitments. In an email to Ms M the lender 
noted that the credit card held with Lloyds was under arrangement, but also asks Ms M for 
further detail about why her unsecured debt had increased to 27852.
Ms M has also provided email confirmation from the lender of the withdrawal of their offer, it 
states:
I have reviewed the additional information that you have provided but 
unfortunately the concerns that we have identified have led us to the decision to 
take this action.
Its not clear from this explanation whether the payment plan was the sole reason for the 
decline  in fact it describes concerns, which could refer to both the information requested 
about the payment plan and Ms Ms increased unsecured debt. Ms M hasnt provided any 
further clarification on the reason for the withdrawal from her lender. From the evidence 
available I cant say that the payment plan was the sole reason that the mortgage offer was 
withdrawn, and so I cant say that theyre responsible for any losses caused by this 
withdrawal. Because to do so Id need to be satisfied that had the payment plan not been in 
place the offer would have proceeded as planned.
I acknowledge Ms Ms opinion that her underlying debt had not increased at the time, but 
this does not appear to have been the view of her potential lender who was making the 
lending decision. I also recognise her point that there were no other markers on her credit 
file that would have been responsible. Ms M essentially believes that as the payment plan 
was the only adverse information on her credit file, it must be the reason that her offer was 
declined.
But when lenders consider applications for borrowing, they have their own lending criteria 
which takes a variety of factors into account  someone which would arguably be seen as 
having a good credit score might still be turned down for further lending due to a variety of 
other factors. The evidence provided to me must show conclusively that the reason for the 
decline was due solely to the plan. I agree with Ms M that this plan could have been viewed 
negatively by a lender, but I cant fairly conclude that the application was declined solely 
because of it.
The reasons the lender has provided to Ms M are not descriptive, and the evidence provided 
doesnt state that Lloyds payment plan is specifically or solely responsible for the decline, in 
fact communications prior to the decline suggest it was just one of two concerns highlighted.
 
Ms M has also shown how the same lender has now approved her mortgage after the 
payment plan was removed from her credit file. But this lending decision was not made at 
the same time, over half a year later, and does not reflect identical circumstances. I can also 
see from Ms M's credit file that her financial position has changed over this time. Im not 
satisfied that this new approval proves the same decision would have been made originally 
were it not for the plan being in place.
Whilst Im satisfied that I cant say Lloyds are responsible for the withdrawal of Ms Ms 
mortgage offer, I still need to consider whether the offer already made by Lloyds is a fair and 
reasonable acknowledgement of the impact Lloyds error has had on Ms M.
Lloyds have removed the payment plan from Ms Ms credit file and provided a two-month 
interest free period on her account, which I think is fair in the circumstances. Lloyds have also paid Ms M £150 to acknowledge the inconvenience and upset caused by its mistake. 
Ive thought carefully about whether this amount is fair and reasonable.
To award any compensation Id need to be satisfied that the impact of Lloyds error was 
greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. And its clear that this is the case  Ms M 
had to take time and effort to deal with the issue of removing the plan from her credit file. As 
well as this, it must have been distressing to find out that the plan was being reported on her 
credit file when shed previously not been informed that would be the case. This all 
happened at a time when Ms M had been trying to get her finances arranged for very good 
reasons.
 
But I can only consider the inconvenience and upset that Lloyds are responsible for when 
suggesting any settlement. And I think that in the circumstances, the offer of £150 that 
Lloyds has already made is fair and reasonable compensation.
I wont be asking Lloyds to do any more as I cant fairly say that Ms Ms mortgage application 
wouldve succeeded were it not for the payment plan showing on her credit file, and so I 
cant hold it responsible for the costs and inconvenience Ms M incurred as a result of her 
application failing.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think Lloyds need to do any more to 
resolve the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman