DRN-4399725
The complaint
Mr O complains as a director of J, a company, that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money substantially delayed in carrying out Js switching application from one bank to 
another leading J to make financial losses.
What happened
Mr O applied to switch J's business account from Virgin to the new bank, in July 2022. The 
switch was rejected I believe because of a particular business loan on the account which 
couldn't be transferred. The procedure was to open a separate account for that loan as a 
feeder account. But the application to switch was still rejected for various reasons. When the 
separate account was opened in respect of the business loan all the direct debits and 
payments were transferred to that account by mistake. Mr O was also advised to get another 
director's consent to be removed from the company which wasnt the cause of the switching 
problems.
The application took around ten months to be finally completed. Mr O also said that there 
were problems around the payments of some direct debits and about payments to a 
particular account name. In the course of that Mr O said that he suffered considerable 
distress and inconvenience. He also said that J had made a substantial loss of profits.
Virgin initially paid £100 compensation and refunded business fees of £464.20. 
Subsequently, after the switch had been completed, it paid J £1,100 compensation. It said it 
couldn't pay any financial losses as it didnt consider that it had been shown that J had made 
losses as a direct result of its errors in setting up the switch.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that as things stood 
Virgin had handled the complaint appropriately. She said that the evidence Mr O supplied of 
a drop in profits didn't show that they were directly caused by Virgins errors. 
 Mr O did not agree and said that J had made direct financial losses.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
in making this decision I have to bear in mind that the complainant in this case is J, a limited 
company. While I appreciate that this is effectively Mr O's company, as a limited company J 
can't suffer distress and I cannot make award of compensation for that. This is even though 
Mr O has clearly been caused a great deal of stress by it. I can make an award of 
compensation for inconvenience suffered by Mr O because that caused the company 
inconvenience. For example at one stage Mr O was asked to manually transfer all direct 
debits himself which would have been very inconvenient for him not least because he is 
dyslexic, but it did concern the company account.
Turning to the substance of the complaint, I don't doubt that Virgin was responsible for the 
errors in closing the account and switching it to Js new account. This was caused by various 
things which werent explained fully to Mr O at the time. In all, the process took over ten 
months when it should have taken a couple of weeks. For this Virgin has paid total 
compensation of £1,200, plus the refund of business fees. Such an award is likely to be fair 
where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused substantial disruption to the 
running of the business over a sustained period, with the impact felt over many months. 
Bearing in mind that the award would include any payment for distress, I think that Virgin 
has acted appropriately here and its total award of £1,200 plus the refund of business 
fees is fair and reasonable. This is also in line with awards we have made in similar 
cases.
Turning to financial losses, I accept that if J made any such losses because of Virgins errors 
in switching the account, then it should be liable for them. Mr O has shown us Js 
accountants figures for the first five months of 2023 as against the similar period in 2022. 
This does show a drop in profits. However, it doesn't show that the drop in profits was 
caused by the errors in carrying out the switching of accounts. 
Mr O refers to The additional charges the company will lose in charges because of the 
delays. The ads that were cancelled for shows, the deliveries that were missed. If [the 
business] were to deliver the food to the wrong door we would have to replace it. The losses 
were a direct result of being unable to react swift enough. But to clarify I can't make any 
award for speculative losses or what might have happened. I'm generally satisfied that it 
hasn't been shown that J, as a company, has made any losses directly because of Virgins 
errors.
With regard to the complaints about direct debit payments it would appear from a review of 
the accounts that no payments were missed.
With regard to the payment made to a wrong person, I understand that this person was 
created on the system in 2019 before the confirmation of payee procedure was introduced. 
The beneficiary name for this account was changed to Mr O when the new system was 
introduced. As a result Mr O made a payment of £30 to it. He hasn't made any further 
payments to it. I can see this was an error on Virgins part. Ive taken this into account as 
part of the overall service given, but wont make a separate award for it.
So overall, I think that Virgin has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for its 
admitted serious errors in this case. As I don't think that Mr O has shown that J has made 
any financial losses as a direct result, I won't require Virgin to take any further action.
My final decision
As I think that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money has taken appropriate action to 
deal with Js complaint, I won't require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman