DRN-3212524
The complaint
Mr V complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided loans that 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr V took out loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
LoanDate 
takenLoan amount 
receivedTotal 
repayable 
amountTerm Weekly 
repaymentsDate 
repaid
1 1/04/2019 £750 £3,085.68 78 weeks 
(18 months)£39.56 
(£158.24 
monthly) 11/09/2019 
out of loan 2 
proceeds
2 11/09/2019 £1,000 £4,113.72 78 weeks 
(18 months)£52.74
(£210.96 
monthly Outstanding 
Mr V brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. 
In brief summary, Mr Vs representative said that Mr Vs employment situation put him at risk 
of not having an income after taking out the loan. It also said Loans 2 Go didnt do proper 
checks before lending or explain the nature and terms of the loans sufficiently clearly. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Vs complaint about both loans and set out directions indicating 
what he thought Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that it had worked out that 
both loans were affordable and it didnt agree that it had acted irresponsibly towards Mr V in 
any way. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 
Go relied on when it decided to lend to Mr V. 
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go asked Mr V about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks. 
Loans 2 Go used an online income checker to verify that Mr Vs minimum monthly pay was 
around £2,948. Relying on this figure for his net monthly income and taking into account 
what Mr V had said about his monthly expenditure, and what its credit checks showed, it 
calculated that Mr Vs monthly expenditure was approximately £2,476. It also allowed for a 
buffer of 10% of his verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in Mr Vs monthly 
income or expenditure. Loans 2 Go calculated that Mr V shouldve been able to afford the 
monthly repayment on this loan. 
I think that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that there seemed to be a lack of 
detailed credit history information. Many of the entries, including some important information 
that a responsible lender might reasonably have wanted to find out about, didnt record 
anything useful. That said however, there was some information shown  and I think its fair 
to say that the information that was shown wasnt unduly worrying. The total balance on all 
Mr Vs accounts in the last month was recorded as £1,827, which I think wasnt an excessive 
or particularly surprising amount for someone with Mr Vs income. 
The figures Mr V had declared to Loans 2 Go were broadly in line with the amounts Loans 2 
Go verified. So I dont think there was any particular reason for Loans 2 Go to think it 
couldnt rely on what Mr V had said in support of his application. And whilst there was some 
adverse credit history and it was evident that Mr V had certainly had some money problems 
in the past, these problems were mostly not recent. And having an impaired credit history 
wouldnt be unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing  and it 
wouldnt necessarily be a bar to lending if the loan otherwise looked affordable. 
Although Mr V seemed to have been stuck 1 monthly payment in arrears on a 
telecommunication account for a long time and he was close to the £250 limit on a credit 
card, his recent payment record looked generally ok. And whilst I can see defaulted 
accounts, these dated back several years. The search history suggests that although debt 
collection might have been under consideration nothing appeared to have been actioned so 
far and these accounts dated back to 2015/16. 
So I can understand why a lender might reasonably think Mr V mightve simply chosen not to 
prioritise these defaulted accounts for payment. There were no more recent defaults that 
would have pointed to continuing money problems and there was no adverse information 
shown suggesting that he was affected by bankruptcy or in an arrangement with his creditors 
or that there were any active county court judgements.I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to 
lend. I think Loans 2 Go could see that Mr V had a history of taking out and repaying 
unsecured credit  on the face of it, that potentially raised a question about why Mr V 
needed to do that and why he still needed this loan. It wasnt clear how he intended to use 
the money.
I think this was a finely balanced lending decision and Im mindful that I must be impartial 
and fair to both parties. On balance, bearing in mind this was Mr Vs first loan application 
to Loans 2 Go, he was applying for a relatively small loan amount and given the 
18 months term and the low level of monthly repayments compared to his take home 
pay, I think the checks Loans 2 Go did for loan 1 were, broadly speaking, proportionate 
in the circumstances. So, I think Loans 2 Go was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
information it gathered and take at face value what Mr V told it about his financial 
circumstances. And I think the lending decision it made to provide this loan wasnt unfair 
based on the information Loans 2 Go could see.
Mr V used loan 2 to pay loan 1 early and take out some extra borrowing which it seems he 
told Loans 2 Go was for home improvements. Loans 2 Go carried out the same information 
gathering process as it had done for loan 1. Its credit checks showed more or less the same 
information it had seen on its credit report obtained when Mr V applied for loan 1. This time, 
Loans 2 Go had quite significantly downgraded the amount Mr V had declared as his income 
after checking this and increased the amount he said he was spending each month after 
doing its own credit checks. So I've taken into account that Loans 2 Go was aware that 
information from Mr V didnt look like it had been entirely accurate  and potentially this 
called into question all the information he had provided about his spending and his financial 
situation generally. 
But set against this was the fact that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did still showed nothing 
unduly concerning. Save for loan 1, Mr V doesnt seem to have been taking out significant 
other borrowing - at least so far as can be seen on the credit report Loans 2 Go acquired. He 
appeared to have managed the repayments on loan 1 without any obvious signs of financial 
difficulty and this loan wasnt significantly more expensive  just £13 or so more each week 
than hed been paying for loan 1. And the loan looked affordable on the income and 
expenditure figures Loans 2 Go had calculated. Given his verified income was £1,862.56, his 
verified expenditure over the month was £1,153.91, even with a 10% buffer to allow for 
variations in earnings and spending, this seems still to have left Mr V with nearly £400 
surplus after paying for loan 2.
Whilst I think finances looked tight, I've taken into account that Loans 2 Go had already 
allowed for a buffer in its affordability assessments. So I cant fairly say that Mr V was left 
with too little spare cash after taking out these loans for any unexpected expenditure 
because the lender had already factored in that risk. Thinking about these loans overall, 
I think the checks done were broadly proportionate and that Loans 2 Go was entitled to 
make a lending decision each time based on what it saw in front of it without needing to do 
more in-depth checks. 
And whilst Mr Vs credit history undoubtedly showed some concerning information, this 
wasnt enough overall in my view to have prompted a responsible lender to have declined 
this loan application. On balance, I feel I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 
Go had sufficient adverse information to show that these loans would be unlikely to be 
sustainably affordable for him over the loan terms. So for these reasons I dont plan to 
uphold Mr Vs complaint about either of these loans. I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mr V in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. I dont think Mr Vs employment status would be a fair 
reason not to lend and I cant fairly say that the lender acted unreasonably when it loaned to 
Mr V knowing he was self-employed. And I think its fair to say that the loan agreements set 
out reasonably clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he would have to pay if 
the loans ran to term. Taking everything into account, I think Mr V was aware he was taking 
high cost loans on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant reasonably say 
that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint or award any 
redress. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr V, but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. And if Mr V would like help to 
manage his finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
support on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. As no further comments 
have been received in response to my provisional decision that change what I think about 
this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 
17 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman