DRN-3987099
The complaint
Mr B has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in June 2022, 
using a hire-purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
Mr B acquired a used Peugeot in June 2022, using a hire-purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was nearly eight years old, with a mileage of 46,893. The cost of the car 
was £8,299, and Mr B borrowed £7,758.94 over a term of 60 months, with a monthly 
repayment of £173.18.
Mr B said that the Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS) warning light was showing when he test 
drove the car. The dealership said this should turn off, but when Mr B drove the car away, 
there was an incident where the brakes locked, so he took the car back to the dealership. It 
agreed to carry out repairs. Mr B became concerned about the time being taken so he 
complained to MotoNovo, saying he wanted to cancel the agreement. However, following 
MotoNovo contacting the dealership, the repairs were carried out, and it looks as though an 
MOT was completed. Some advisories were noted on the MOT and the dealership dealt with 
these, all repair costs being covered by the dealership. The car was returned to Mr B at the 
end of June. He confirmed to MotoNovo he was happy with the car and that there were no 
further issues with it. 
MotoNovo issued its final response to Mr B the same day, saying it was upholding the 
complaint in that it agreed there was a fault with the vehicle, but as the repairs were 
complete (at no cost to Mr B) and Mr B was happy with the outcome, it considered the 
complaint to be resolved.
The following month, Mr B contacted MotoNovo to say that he had noticed the engine was 
rattling, and he had had to buy engine oil as the level was so depleted. He said this made 
him concerned that the car hadnt been serviced as he had been led to believe. MotoNovo 
agreed to cover the cost of a service and Mr B told MotoNovo that this had been booked. 
However, it appears that Mr B simply returned the car to the dealership on 20 July 2022. And 
it seems that, at the same time, Mr B cancelled the direct debit for the hire purchase 
agreement, and also cancelled the insurance, moving it to another car as he said he needed 
a car for him and his family. 
Mr B called MotoNovo in September 2022, to ask about the return of his deposit, but 
MotoNovo said it would need to arrange an independent inspection of the car to assess 
whether there were faults present before it could agree to Mr B rejecting the car. That 
independent inspection was carried out at the end of September 2022, over a period of ten 
days to allow for a 500-mile road test to look at oil consumption. The report stated that there 
was no evidence of any fault on the car, and that it was of satisfactory quality.
Mr B was still unhappy with the car and with MotoNovo, so brought his complaint to this 
service in September 2022 (in fact this was while the car was undergoing the independent 
inspection). He said that he had a new car so wouldnt be looking to accept this car back, as 
he no longer needed it. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr B didnt 
agree, and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire-purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case, the car was nearly eight years old, with a mileage of 46,893 when Mr B 
acquired it. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to expect that 
parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this age 
would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Mr B and MotoNovo provided about the sequence of 
events. MotoNovo sent in copies of the hire purchase agreement, several call recordings 
and notes of its contact with Mr B, and the independent report. Ive listened carefully to all of 
the call recordings. 
Its not in dispute that there was an issue with the brakes on the car at the start  but the 
dealership carried out the repairs at no cost to Mr B and he confirmed to MotoNovo that he 
was happy with the outcome. As I noted above, the dealership also rectified some advisories 
noted on the MOT, again at no charge to Mr B.
With regard to the later issue raised by Mr B  the oil consumption and engine noise  I can 
see from the contact notes and call recordings that he spoke to MotoNovo about this in early 
July 2022, saying that he had had to top up the oil, and that there were engine noises, 
particularly while the car was warming up, although he did say that the car was running all 
right. He was concerned that the car hadnt been serviced as he had been led to believe.
In the call on 11 July 2022, MotoNovo offered to refund to Mr B the cost of a service on the 
car, which Mr B said he was happy with. Mr B then called back to say that he had booked 
the service for 26 July at a cost of £318, which MotoNovo confirmed it would cover. Its not 
clear whether this service happened, although the information I have suggests it didnt. 
The next calls took place on 12 September 2022. Mr B said hed taken the car back to the 
dealership (I believe on 20 July), saying that he was rejecting the car, although the 
dealership hadnt accepted this, and he wanted the return of his deposit. The MotoNovo 
representative told Mr B that hed emailed him on 25 July to say that hed spoken to the dealership, and at this stage there was no mechanical evidence of a fault. He went on to say 
that the email had stated that an inspection was needed, and if a fault was found MotoNovo 
would support Mr B in arranging for the contract to be unwound, but if no fault was found Mr 
B would be required to collect the car from the dealership and MotoNovo wouldnt be able to 
authorise the agreement to be unwound. The MotoNovo representative went on to say that 
he hadnt received a reply to this email. 
Mr B then reiterated that hed given the car back, and disputed any further responsibility for 
the car, saying hed returned it as he was entitled to do under the CRA. The MotoNovo 
representative said  in summary - that there needed to be evidence about whether the car 
was fit for purpose before MotoNovo could determine whether rejection of the car was 
appropriate, and that he would organise an independent inspection of the car. 
I should say here that its not clear what led to Mr B simply taking the car back to the 
dealership, rather than having the service completed, and I have no notes or call recordings 
to suggest that he contacted MotoNovo directly after he did so. Nor is it clear why MotoNovo 
hadnt followed up on its e-mail of 25 July after it received no reply.
There were further calls between Mr B and MotoNovo in September, but these were 
primarily about the arrears that were, by then, accruing on the hire purchase agreement. Mr 
B reiterated that he had made a complaint about the quality of the car. I note that he referred 
to the car as being undriveable when he returned it to the dealership, although as I noted 
above I have no information about what had changed since he had agreed with MotoNovo 
that the car would be serviced. 
The independent inspection of the car was carried out over ten days at the end of 
September 2022. I have a copy of the report (as does Mr B) and it includes the following:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence presented to ourselves at the time of 
inspection, we were unable to identify any faults with the vehicle. Whilst carrying out 
our inspection the oil level was up to the prescribed maximum level with no evidence 
of any leakages. The coolant level was also correct with no evidence of any 
contamination or leakages. 
We would confirm that when carrying out a visual examination of the brake discs and 
brake pads, they were considered to be in a good serviceable condition.
When starting the engine from cold, the vehicle had started up readily with no 
warning lights illuminated. Also, with no abnormal engine operational noise. With the 
vehicles engine idling, there was no excessive exhaust smoke emitting from the 
exhaust system.
We road tested the vehicle over a period of ten days and can confirm that the vehicle 
performed in a satisfactory condition relating to the engine and the braking 
performance.
We checked the oil and coolant levels daily, which we could confirm, upon the 
completion of the 562 mile road test, there was no significant engine oil level drop on 
the dipstick with the engine oil level on the maximum level indicator. We could also 
confirm that there was no loss in the coolant level as well.
We would consider, based on the visible evidence presented to ourselves at the time 
of inspection, that the vehicle was considered to be in a good operational condition 
commensurate with the vehicles age and mileage.Ive no reason to doubt the independent report. Based on the findings, and having carefully 
considered all of the other evidence and information provided, Im not satisfied that there 
was any further fault on the car. After the initial repair was carried out  which Mr B accepted 
 I consider that the car was of satisfactory quality. So I dont think MotoNovo has done 
anything wrong, and I dont consider I can fairly require MotoNovo to allow the rejection of 
the car and the ending of the finance agreement. So I am not upholding this complaint. 
I should also say here that Mr B told us he had been notified by the police that the car had 
been spotted whilst being driven without insurance (this was an advisory notice). Given the 
timing, it seems that this was while the car was being road tested as part of the independent 
inspection. I dont think the engineer (or MotoNovo) could reasonably have expected that the 
car would have been uninsured during the inspection, so again I dont think that MotoNovo 
has done anything wrong. 
Finally, I note that Mr B is in arrears on this agreement, and I would expect MotoNovo to 
treat Mr B with forbearance and due consideration in finding a resolution on the arrears. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman