DRN-4512060
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly refused to return the box for Mr 
As Rolex watch following a successful claim on his home insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
Mr A was the victim of a robbery when his Rolex watch was pickpocketed. He made a claim 
on his home insurance policy for his loss. 
To validate the claim, Aviva asked Mr A to provide the original box and paperwork  which 
he did, and the claim was subsequently paid. 
Mr A asked Aviva for the original box back, as he says it holds sentimental value. Aviva 
initially said he could have the box, but later confirmed this was an error. It explained that it 
must comply with Rolex fraud prevention conditions by ensuring that all associated items 
with a Rolex, including the boxes, are removed from circulation. This is to stop them from 
falling into the wrong hands where counterfeit products can be passed as genuine. Mr A 
raised a complaint.
Aviva offered £100 compensation for the loss of expectation Mr A wouldve suffered as a 
result of incorrectly being told he could have the box back. But it maintained its position, 
advising that it had fulfilled its role by putting Mr A back in the position he was in prior to the 
theft.
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. But our Investigator 
didnt uphold it. She was satisfied Aviva had handled the claim in accordance with the policy 
terms and hadnt acted unfairly. She explained that as Aviva had settled the claim with a new 
Rolex and box, Mr A has been put back into the pre loss position and the items associated 
with the original Rolex become Avivas possession in line with standard industry practice.
Mr A didnt agree. He says he wasnt told when he provided the original box that he wouldnt 
get it back, and he questions what Aviva wouldve done if hed not had the original box and 
could only provide the paperwork. He says he has no intention to commit fraud and that 
allowing him to retain packaging of his original watch doesnt put him in a better position than 
he was pre loss.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs As home insurance policy say:
To help us settle your claim
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and we may ask you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards and any other 
relevant information, documents and assistance we may require to help with your 
claim.
Aviva asked Mr A to provide the original box and paperwork to prove his loss, which isnt 
uncommon in claims for Rolex watches, and I wouldnt consider this to be unfair. Mr A says 
he wasnt told he wouldnt get it back and questions what wouldve happened if he hadnt 
been able to provide it.
I think its of note that Aviva settled Mr As claim on the basis of all the information and 
evidence that he provided. The box wouldve been a material consideration. Had he not 
provided the box it couldve led to a different outcome. 
I appreciate Mr A wasnt told beforehand that the box wouldnt be returned to him. But Im 
not persuaded that, had Mr A been told the box wouldnt be returned and that the outcome of 
his claim could be dependent on it, he wouldve chosen to keep the box at the risk of his 
claim not being paid. 
Mr As claim was paid, and he was put back in the position he was in pre loss  with a Rolex 
watch and a Rolex watch box. Its standard practice that when a claim is paid, any salvage 
or undamaged items that form part of the claim payment become the insurers possession. 
In this case, Aviva has paid for a Rolex watch which comes with the box, so its within its 
rights to retain the undamaged box.
In some cases, an insurer is able to offer the salvage of a claim to the consumer in 
exchange for a small deduction in the claim payment. But here, Aviva has raised concerns 
about the counterfeit watch market. It hasnt suggested Mr A is in any way involved in such 
matters. But it does note the risk associated with returning watch boxes which can ultimately 
be re-used for future gain in other fraudulent ways. And Im satisfied this is a fair reason for 
Aviva to keep hold of the box.
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, as I understand the box holds 
memories for him which cant be replaced. But I hope my explanation helps him to 
understand how Ive reached my outcome that Aviva hasnt acted incorrectly or unfairly.
Aviva has offered £100 compensation for incorrectly informing Mr A that he could have the 
watch box back, resulting in a loss of expectation. If Mr A wishes to accept this, he should 
contact Aviva directly to arrange payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman