DRN-3720886
The complaint
Miss G complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd avoided her life assurance policy and declined 
a death claim for her partner, Mr S.
A third-party firm has helped Miss G raise this complaint but, for ease of reference, Ill refer 
to her only.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In November 2018 Miss G and Mr S applied for life assurance, which included a terminal 
illness benefit, with Zurich. The policy provided about £160,000 of cover on a decreasing 
basis over a 23-year term. It commenced in April 2019.
Mr S received a cancer diagnosis in March 2020 and later submitted a terminal illness claim 
in January 2021. As part of their consideration of the claim, Zurich obtained Mr Ss medical 
records. From this they found differences in the information Mr S provided when he applied 
in relation to the following questions:
Do you use Tobacco or nicotine?
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have 
you had, or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment for:
any diseases of the eyes or ears such as double vision, visual impairment in one or 
both eyes, ringing in one or both ears, tinnitus, labyrinthitis or Menieres disease?
In May 2021 Zurich wrote to Mr S about this. They said he answered both questions no but 
that his medical records showed hed smoked and had a history of hearing loss. So, Zurich 
thought the questions shouldve been answered yes. They asked Mr S why he didnt inform 
Zurich of his smoking or hearing loss in the application.
Mr S explained that he tried smoking socially for a week or so in October 2018 but, very 
soon after, had an upper respiratory tract infection and so didnt carry on. As the application 
asked whether he used tobacco or nicotine he answered this no as he wasnt at the time. 
And he didnt think his short-failed attempt constituted using. He also answered the second 
question no as there wasnt any formal diagnosis, medical investigation or treatment in 
relation to his hearing by the doctors. And he hadnt noticed any loss of hearing until he was 
diagnosed with a severely progressed form of cancer. 
Mr S sadly died in June 2021. Zurich wrote to Miss G on 24 June 2021 declining the death 
claim. In short, they said:
Mr S hadnt provided a satisfactory explanation for the differences between the 
information he provided in the application and his medical history - and so they 
believed he misrepresented his health when applying for cover.
The application gave Mr S different options  smoker, ex-smoker and non-smoker - 
to select in respect of his smoking status.
The medical records showed Mr S was an ex-smoker and received cessation advice 
from his GP. A clinic letter, from January 2020, recorded Mr S as having smoked a 
few years ago.
The medical records also showed that, in March 2019, hed suffered reduced hearing 
in his left ear for about for 12 months. A letter from his treating consultant also 
referred to Mr S as having a history of left sided hearing loss for the two years prior, 
as well as ringing in his ears.  
They would reasonably have expected Mr S to have disclosed this information in the 
application. If theyd been aware of the hearing loss they wouldnt have been able to 
offer terms until this was medically investigated. 
Had they been aware of Mr Ss smoking status, smoking rates wouldve also applied. 
They considered this misrepresentation to be deliberate/reckless. So, they cancelled 
the policy and refunded the premiums paid. 
In response, Miss G asked Zurich  in relation to the in the last 5 years question  for 
them to highlight the date and details of when Mr S had been advised to take medication or 
treatment in the five years prior to completing his application.
Zurich explained that the purpose of the question was asking whether Mr S had any of the 
listed conditions or, if hed been advised to take any medication/treatment for any of the 
conditions. And that the medical evidence theyd received showed he had conditions 
mentioned during the relevant time period  those being reduced hearing and ringing in the 
ears (tinnitus). Zurich reiterated that, had they known this at the point of application, terms 
wouldnt have been offered until the symptoms had been medically investigated. 
Miss G thought Zurich were altering the structure of the question to fit their narrative. She 
said the question was asking whether Mr S has had, or been advised to take any 
medication or have any treatment for. And so not whether hed had any of the 
conditions but only if hed had (or been advised to take) medication or treatment relating to 
one. She asked Zurich again to highlight the date and details of when Mr S had been 
advised to take medication or treatment in the five years prior to completing his application.
Zurichs position didnt change. They reiterated that their question covered both whether 
Mr S had any of the listed conditions or whether hed been advised to have any 
medication/treatment for them. So, based on Mr Ss medical records, he shouldve answered 
the question yes which wouldve prompted follow up questions. Zurich added that the 
second part of the question regarding medication/treatment wasnt relevant to their decision. 
Miss G referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think Zurich 
had to do anything further. He thought Mr S had misrepresented his health by not disclosing 
his smoking history and hearing issues in the application. And, having seen Zurichs 
underwriting criteria, he was satisfied that they wouldve postponed offering cover had they 
been aware of the hearing issues until it was medically investigated. As the investigations (directly or indirectly) led to the cancer diagnosis, terms wouldnt have been offered. So, he 
thought Zurich had acted fairly  and in line with the relevant regulation  by avoiding the 
policy, declining the claim and refunding the premiums.
Miss G disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly send my condolences to Miss G. I know this will be a very difficult time and I 
dont underestimate her disappointment about the policy being avoided and the claim 
declined. I want to reassure Miss G that Ive given this matter, and everything shes said, 
careful consideration. But while I know this isnt the outcome Miss G is hoping for, I dont 
think Zurich has acted unfairly for similar reasons to our investigator. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by saying 
he was non-smoker and by not disclosing his hearing loss. Although there are two alleged 
misrepresentations here, Im going to focus on the hearing loss as I consider it most relevant 
in the circumstances. And so, Ive looked at the relevant application question:
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, 
have you had, or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment 
for:
any disease or disorder of the eyes or ears such as double vision, visual impairment 
in one or both eyes, ringing in one or both ears, tinnitus, labyrinthitis or Menieres 
disease?
Mr S answered this no.
Zurich subsequently sent Mr S a letter which included a copy of his application answers for 
him to check they were correct. It provided the following warning:
If anything changes
We know how important the cover is to you so if you think anything youve told us is 
wrong, or has changed up to the policy start date, let us know as soon as possible. If 
you dont tell us about something thats incorrect we may have to cancel the policy or 
be unable to pay the claim. Im satisfied, in light of this, that Zurich did enough to draw Mr Ss attention to the importance 
answering all questions truthfully and accurately, and the potential consequences if he didnt 
do so.
I understand Miss G believes this question only asked Mr S whether hed had any 
medication or treatment for a relevant condition, or been advised to have some. Although 
Ive considered this, I disagree. I believe a reasonable interpretation of the question is that it 
consists of two parts. Firstly, whether Mr S had one of the relevant conditions. And, 
secondly, whether hed been advised to take any medication or have any treatment for a 
relevant condition. It follows that I dont think Mr S needed to have received a diagnosis, 
sought treatment or been advised to take medication for a relevant condition relating to this 
question for it have been disclosed. The condition merely had to exist.
Having carefully looked at the medical, Im satisfied it did. This is because, although Mr S 
says he didnt experience any hearing loss until he was diagnosed with a severely 
progressed form of cancer, his medical records show:
A GP record  dated 10 May 2019  that notes identified 12mth reduced hearing Lt 
side.
A consultant letter  dated 10 March 2020  that notes He is also deaf in the left ear, 
although this is nothing new.
A consultant letter  dated 20 May 2020  that notes Mr S gives a history of left 
sided hearing issues over the last couple of years in hindsight and also ringing in the 
ears. 
A consultant letter  dated 1 September 2020  that notes Mr S presented with left 
sided hearing issues over the last couple of years and in hindsight also ringing in the 
ears.
The self-reported symptoms of hearing loss above evidences that it most likely started prior 
to Mr S applying for cover in November 2018, and almost certainly had started by the time 
cover commenced in April 2019. Im therefore satisfied that Mr S ought to have answered 
the question differently or updated his answer before cover commenced. So, I consider there 
was a misrepresentation.
Zurich has shown that, had Mr S disclosed the hearing loss in the application, they wouldnt 
have offered cover until it was medically investigated. And that, upon the cancer being 
diagnosed through the investigations that were undertaken, terms wouldnt have been 
offered. Im therefore satisfied that this was a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Both classifications however allow an insurer to avoid 
the policy and refuse any claim when, had the correct information been disclosed in the 
application, cover wouldnt have been offered. The difference though is that premiums 
should be refunded for careless misrepresentation whereas it can be retained by the insurer 
if classified as deliberate or reckless. 
Although Zurich classified the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless, theyve refunded 
the premiums. And so, irrespective of the classification of the misrepresentation, Im satisfied 
Zurich as provided the most favourable remedy under CIDRA in these circumstances. I think 
this is fair. I realise Miss G will be disappointed by this outcome. But, for the above reasons, I think 
Zurich were entitled to avoid the policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  
in effect the policy never existed, Zurich does not have to deal with the claim following Mr Ss 
death. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Zurich to rely on it to avoid the policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman