DRN-2244525
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D are unhappy with the service theyve received from National 
Westminster Bank Plc in relation to safe custody items.
What happened
After Mrs Ds passing her estate contacted NatWest to sort out her affairs which included 
locating some items that had been lodged in safe custody.
One of the safe custody items was found, but the estate said that two other items were 
missing. NatWest searched their records but were unable to locate these two missing items 
or find any record of them being lodged.  
The estate was put to some trouble by NatWest during the process of trying to locate the 
safe custody items. To put things right NatWest offered the estate £250 for the 
inconvenience caused and also £321.12 to cover costs incurred in the process. The estate 
was unhappy with the situation so brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and thought the financial offer was 
fair. On the balance of probabilities, and after considering all the evidence, our investigator 
thought it reasonable to conclude that the two missing items werent deposited with 
NatWest. She was also happy with the searches NatWest had done to try and locate the 
missing items. 
The estate accepted the financial offer made by NatWest but didnt agree about the two 
missing items. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mrs D passing away. I know this must be difficult for those looking 
after her estate as its never easy sorting out financial affairs at such an emotional time.
The estate of Mrs D has accepted the offer from NatWest about the trouble that was caused 
when looking for all of the items. For the sake of completeness, I think as did our 
investigator, the financial offer is fair and reasonable for what happened.
The estate is happy with the safe custody item that has been found, so its the two items 
they say are missing that are the subject of this decision.  
It can be hard when investigating events that took place many years ago due to the lack of 
available evidence. Here the estate says the items were lodged for safe keeping in 2009 and 
2012. It is even harder when its not possible to get first hand testimony from the people 
involved. In these type of situations I must come to a decision based on the balance of 
probabilities about what I think most likely to have happened.
The evidence we do have here are two safe custody receipt forms. One from 2009 and one 
from 2012. Both of these forms are signed by the NatWest branch staff, but crucially they 
arent signed by Mrs D. Because of the lack of Mrs Ds signature on the receipts NatWest 
says they dont have an agreement for the items.  
I cant say how or why this happened, but its the procedure of NatWest to have the receipts 
signed by both the customer and a member of branch staff when a safe custody item is 
lodged. By signing the customer agrees to the terms and conditions. The estate says this 
lack of signature could be an oversight by NatWest, and thats certainly possible. But to 
come to a decision, even on the balance of probabilities, I cant look at these receipts in 
isolation.
The safe custody item for Mrs D that NatWest did find also had a receipt form. This was 
signed by both the branch staff and Mrs D in 2012. I also note that were two other safe 
custody items held by NatWest for Mrs Ds husband Mr D. These items were both located, 
and both also had receipts forms signed by Mr D and branch staff. 
Looking at things overall there were three safe custody items which were located. These all 
had receipt forms signed by both NatWest and either Mr or Mrs D. The two items that cant 
be located have receipt forms that arent signed by Mrs D. 
Even though NatWest said they didnt have an agreement with Mrs D for these items they 
searched their records anyway. Which is what Id expect them to do. NatWest have 
explained that the items dont appear on their electronic safe custody system. They also 
searched the branch where safe custody items from the original branch are now held, but 
they werent found. 
Considering all the evidence, and based on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied 
NatWest came to a fair and reasonable conclusion when saying there was no agreement for 
them to hold the items. Alongside this Im satisfied NatWest conducted appropriate, but 
unsuccessful, searches both electronically and physically to try and locate the items. 
Thats not to say that whats happened hasnt been upsetting for those dealing with Mrs Ds 
estate; it clearly has. But having considered everything carefully Im persuaded, on balance, 
that there wasnt an agreement for the items and more than likely they werent lodged. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman