DRN-4446345
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted 
unfairly by intermittently withdrawing online banking and threatening to close its bank 
account without notice. M also complains that the bank returned some direct debits unpaid 
even though funds were available. 
M is in administration, but the administrators have appointed one of Ms directors to 
represent them in bringing this complaint. 
What happened
M had a current account with Barclays. In 2020, it took out a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL). Under the terms of the BBL scheme, M didnt have to make any repayments of 
capital or interest for the first year. 
In September 2021, the BBL went into arrears and in November 2021, Barclays issued a 
Formal Demand for repayment and transferred the BBL to their Recoveries department. 
Also in November 2021, the company entered into a Company Voluntary Arrangement 
(CVA). This is a form of insolvency where the directors of the company retain control and 
the business continues to trade, but an agreement is made with creditors over the 
repayment of debts. 
Over the next six months following November 2021, M says its online banking access 
disappeared on at least four occasions, but was reinstated following a conversation with 
Recoveries. 
In April 2022, M wrote to Barclays. It asked for three months notice to arrange banking 
elsewhere if the bank no longer wanted its account. Barclays didnt reply. M chased again in 
June 2022 and again received no response. 
In June 2022, M asked its MP to write a complaint on its behalf to Barclays. The bank replied 
that it had passed the BBL to a debt collection agency as it had not been repaid following a 
Formal Demand. Barclays letter said that with regard to business other accounts with us, 
they can continue to use them as normal.
In July 2022, M was informed that Barclays would close Ms current account in due course, 
but would not give them three months notice. Barclays also said that Ms online banking 
access would keep being removed and advised M to seek new banking facilities as a matter 
of urgency to try and ensure the company has a smoother and less interrupted banking 
process. 
M referred its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, asking for the threat to close its 
account to be withdrawn and to be given unrestricted access to its account.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. She said this was because the CVA was an event of default under the BBL 
agreement and also permitted the bank to close or restrict Ms current account. 
M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. M said that Barclays 
had returned direct debits on its account unpaid, when there were ample funds in the 
account. This had led to the company being fined by its pension provider and letters being 
sent to all staff saying it had failed to make pension payments. M also said that its insurer 
had refused a renewal and its fire and theft insurance premium had doubled. 
In May 2023, Barclays closed Ms current account. 
Also in May 2023, Ms CVA was terminated prematurely because M hadnt complied with its 
terms. In July 2023, M went into administration. The administrators confirmed that one of the 
directors could represent them in referring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint on 27 September 2023. I said, in 
summary:
The terms and conditions governing the operation of Ms current account gave 
Barclays the right to close the account if M entered into an insolvency process 
or a voluntary agreement with creditors. 
However, in this case, Barclays chose not to exercise this right and didnt close 
the account immediately. After transferring Ms account to their Recoveries 
Department, Barclays then let the account operate fairly normally for several 
months, with the exception of the fact that they kept withdrawing internet 
banking without notice.
My starting point was to decide whether Barclays, having made the decision 
not to close the account, acted reasonably thereafter. I was minded to think 
that they did not. 
In March or April 2022, I thought a telephone conversation must have taken 
place, in which Barclays indicated they were intending to close the account. I 
said this because Id seen a letter written by M asking for three months notice 
if the bank decided to close the account. I didnt think M would have made this 
request unless closure had been mentioned by Barclays. 
I hadnt seen any reply to this request until July 2022, which in itself seemed to 
me to be an error on Barclays part. I also noted that, in the meantime, Barclays 
told Ms MP that Ms account could operate as normal, which was untrue. So I 
considered that Barclays were communicating very poorly on a matter of 
considerable importance to M. 
In July 2022, some three months after M had asked for notice to close, 
Barclays declined to give any notice and informed M that they would close the 
account in due course. 
I thought Principle 6 from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for 
Businesses was relevant. This says that A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. My provisional position was that 
Barclays were not paying due regard to the interests of M when they confirmed 
their intention to close the account, but refused to give any notice. I also didnt 
think it was fair to make life difficult for M by withdrawing internet banking 
intermittently. The bank wasnt in my view exposed to any additional risk by keeping the 
account open. There was no overdraft facility, it was receiving regular credits 
and the CVA didnt necessitate any restrictions on the operation of the bank 
account. 
I also considered that agreeing to Ms request for notice to close would not 
have damaged the banks position unreasonably, especially as they could have 
reserved their rights to close the account without notice if the risk to the bank 
changed. My current conclusion was that the position Barclays chose to take 
did not constitute treating their customer fairly. 
I had considered whether M attempted to mitigate its loss, given Barclays 
message that they no longer wanted Ms banking. But M had shown me that it 
was attempting to find alternative bankers  something that was not easy, 
given the CVA. So I thought M did take reasonable actions to reduce its risk. 
By the time the account was finally closed, without further notice, in May 2023, 
Ms CVA had failed. It would have been apparent that a further, more severe, 
insolvency was likely to follow. I didnt think it was unreasonable for the bank to 
close Ms account at that point. I also understood that by then, M had by then 
managed to secure a new current account, so it would have been apparent that 
activity through the account, and credits into it, had slowed.
I also looked into the returned items on the account and I could see that, on 
several occasions, direct debits were returned when there were funds available 
to cover them. Barclays had offered no explanation for these returns. 
M had shown me evidence of a direct financial impact as a result of one of the 
returned direct debits  a £400 fine imposed by their staff pension provider in 
May 2022. I was minded to think that Barclays should compensate M for the 
fine.
M had also shown me examples of the letter the pension company wrote to all 
its staff saying M had been reported to the pension regulator. M said that this 
caused them to lose a member of staff. I hadnt seen evidence of when the 
member of staff left and I couldnt say for sure that it was the pension letter that 
caused it. Given that the company was clearly in financial difficulty, I thought it 
likely that there were other factors involved. I therefore didnt think I could fairly 
award any compensation for the loss of the member of staff. However, I didnt 
doubt that the letters to staff caused inconvenience, as some time and effort 
would have been required to reassure employees. 
M had also said that it was refused insurance and had another premium 
doubled  and was forced to pay in full up front - as a result of a returned 
insurance direct debit. It had provided a letter from its insurance broker in 
support of this. I thought it was difficult to prove a direct link between the 
returned direct debit and the premium rise. Insurance premiums rise for many 
reasons. If, as Ms broker said, the insurer would have carried out credit 
checks, those checks might well have shown adverse information, including the 
existence of the CVA, which could have changed the insurers view of the risk. 
So my provisional intention was not to award compensation for the increased 
insurance premium. 
I thought it very likely that the apparently inconsistent nature of Barclays 
actions caused the directors of M some distress. But I didnt have any power to award compensation for distress suffered by directors. Neither could limited 
companies themselves be distressed. 
I was currently minded to make an inconvenience award of £1000. I considered 
that both the intermittent withdrawal of internet banking and the returned items 
would have caused a significant amount of additional work for the directors 
and/or some employees of M. 
My current intention was to direct Barclays to compensate M for the £400 
pension fine and add interest to this from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement at 8% per annum. I thought the bank should also refund any 
charges levied for returned items when the account was in credit. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say he felt it was an accurate and fair 
reflection of events. He thought that all the problems stemmed from a lack of experience, 
skill or resources from the Recoveries team with which M dealt. He provided some further 
evidence in this regard. 
Barclays responded to say they would accept the decision and commented that they would 
need Ms new account details and evidence showing the date of the payment of the pension 
fine so they could calculate interest from that date.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new arguments from the bank or M, I havent 
changed my provisional view of this complaint. 
I have read Mr Bs comments and evidence regarding the actions and capabilities of the 
specific Recoveries team at Barclays. But it isnt my role to apportion blame within the bank 
but rather to decide if errors have occurred and if so, award fair compensation to put them 
right. For this reason, I dont think his comments change my conclusions regarding this 
complaint. 
My conclusions remain that Barclays did not treat their customer fairly by saying they would 
close Ms current account, but refusing to give a date or any notice. I also think Barclays 
acted unfairly in returning direct debits unpaid when there were funds available to meet them 
and by repeatedly withdrawing internet banking without notice or explanation.  
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, I consider Barclays should compensate M for the £400 
pension fine, which stemmed from a returned direct debit to Ms staff pension provider. Ive 
seen evidence that this was paid on 12 May 2022. The bank should add interest to this 
amount from 12 May 2022 until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
In my provisional decision, I also said I thought the bank should refund any charges levied 
for returned items when the account was in credit. Barclays have informed me that no such 
charges were levied and I havent seen any evidence to the contrary. Nonetheless, if M has 
evidence from bank statements of any such charges, it should provide this to Barclays and 
Barclays should then refund any such amounts, should they exist. I am also awarding compensation of £1000 for the inconvenience caused to M by Barclays 
actions. This is a significant award for inconvenience, but I consider the arbitrary withdrawal 
of internet banking and the returned items would have caused material additional work for M, 
which would have taken its employees or directors away from other work. 
The directors of M had to make several visits to their nearest Barclays branch (which wasnt 
very near) and there would have been administrative work related to the returned items, as 
well as reassuring their staff about their pensions. The directors also spent considerable time 
on the phone persuading the bank to reinstate internet banking on multiple occasions. I have 
taken into consideration that the company was under financial pressure at this time so this 
would all have been an unwelcome distraction.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023. 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman