DRN-3376973
The complaint
K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled their property insurance claim unfairly.
Reference to AXA will include those who acted on their behalf.
What happened
K owned a property which was subject to fire damage in October 2014. AXA was notified of
the damage the following month and discussion took place between them and Ks broker.
Liability was accepted in December 2014, with AXA asking K to obtain quotes for the repairs
that were required.
AXA also informed K that they considered the property to be underinsured, which meant the
settlement would be reduced accordingly. And they advised K that any delay may affect the
period of cover allowed in relation to loss of rent.
AXA wrote to K again in January 2015, to advise they had yet to receive the quotes and to
remind it that this was having an impact on loss of rent. AXA wrote to K on similar lines the
following two months as well.
AXA were then asked if they could obtain the repair quotes. AXA say that K didnt engage
with the need for a visit for some time and a visit wasnt arranged until June 2015. Once that
had taken place AXA said their estimate was £37,214.26 but given the underinsurance the
settlement would be reduced to £22,321.41.
In addition to that, AXA said they could offer six months for loss of rent based on the
timescale it would take to tender and complete the reinstatement works.
Very little seems to have then happened until February 2017, when AXA wrote to Ks broker
to say that no advice regarding acceptance of their offer had been received. A further visit to
assess costs was then arranged, and in May 2017, AXA provided an increased estimate of
£41,814.76 (which subject to underinsurance, would have been £25,080.49).
It would seem K continued to dispute the figures and says it provided counter quotes in
2018. A further visit was arranged in January 2019 with AXA producing a costs assessment,
in which a further £3,114 was agreed to. AXA wrote to K in May 2019 to make a final offer of
£35,000.
K wasnt satisfied with the final offer and so complained. AXA reviewed the matter and said
they felt they had been fair, although they said there was one period where they could have
acted quicker, and so they offered K £100 compensation for that.
K didnt agree, so it brought the case to our service. An investigator here looked into the
matter and they felt K had been treated fairly. K said there had been numerous delays on
AXAs part and that further loss of rent should be considered. K says they provided quotes
for the carpets and electrics, which were greater than the amounts AXA had considered
adequate.
K also said a number of other repairs had not been included in the cost assessment. And
that much of the issue stemmed from the original estimate being inadequate. K said that
hadnt been done by a commercial contractor but more of a painter and decorator. K said as
the future costings used that as a basis, they were also inadequate.
Agreement couldnt be reached so the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision last month, in which I explained why I wasnt planning on upholding Ks 
complaint. A copy is below:
First of all, Id like to acknowledge that this matter dates back many years and because of
that it seems there are some gaps in what happened when. I dont intend to hold that against
either party.
Having reviewed the matter very carefully, I think AXA treated K fairly. Ill explain why.
Im mindful of what K has said about delays on AXAs part but it seems to me that they had
to do a lot of chasing, and as K didnt send in the quotes, they had to arrange a visit instead.
I think if K had provided its own quotes in the first instance matters may have been resolved
a lot more quickly.
I also take Ks point about the original contractor. But theres nothing Ive seen to support its
argument that they werent suitable for the job, and further visits were carried out so I dont
think it can be said everything was simply based on the original contractors opinion. Indeed,
additional costs were factored in on each subsequent visit, and they include much of what K
says has not been covered (with other items not included being contents).
I note as well that while K expected commercial contractors, the property doesnt appear to
me to have been a commercial enterprise you would think of in terms of a retail outlet or a
caf. Of course, such premises would require a level of expertise given the different
demands on them. But I understand this property was used by a religious group for meetings
and was sparsely furnished. So, I dont think specialist contractors wouldve been necessary.
Looking at the settlement of the claim itself, I think it could reasonably be said that AXAs
initial offer was inadequate. But I dont think it was so inadequate as to have stopped work
from commencing while the finer details were ironed out.
The first offer, subject to underinsurance, was £22,321.41. While K has expressed
dissatisfaction with the deduction for underinsurance it has not provided any evidence to
suggest AXAs stance here was unreasonable. It has said that calculations have not been
provided, but they have. And Ks policy allows AXA to reduce the settlement proportionately
in the event of underinsurance.
The second calculation was £41,814.76 (which subject to underinsurance, would have been
an offer of £25,080.49).
And the third offer was £35,000. I appreciate there is a significant difference between the
second and third offers. But I think that more than allows for Ks argument that there will
have been inflation since the first offer was made in 2015, which AXA has explained has
been taken into account. And as I say, theres nothing Ive seen to make me think the first
two offers were so wholly inadequate that they couldnt have been accepted on an interim
basis, and been used to complete most repairs and get the property to a lettable standard.
On that point, I also note that inspections revealed that the property was already in need of
some maintenance too. And that wouldnt be covered by the policy so its reasonable for
reinstatement works to take that into account.Turning to the loss of rent, AXA have said that the offer of £35,000 doesnt include this and
that theyd said this would be considered on receipt of a copy of the lease  which hasnt
been received. I know K says six months isnt adequate and that AXA could have handled
parts of the claim more quickly than they did. But AXA repeatedly told K that they needed to
mitigate losses and that a failure to do so would affect loss of rent. Overall, I think the six
months offered was fair given it was based on the estimates as to how long it would take to
tender and complete repairs.
I note that some of the items K says are missing from the settlement  such as heaters and
blinds  would be classed as contents and so wouldnt be covered. And the carpets have
been covered as, while theyd also normally be contents, the policy provides cover for
carpets in this case.
K says the amount allowed for the carpets is inadequate and has provided his own quote.
But Ks quote is low on detail, it doesnt include measurements or price per metre squared
(which would indicate quality for a like-for-like consideration). In view of this Im not
persuaded that AXAs quote is inadequate. However, I note that AXA have said they would
consider a further quote if K was able to provide a more detailed and like-for-like one from a
local carpet company.
Similarly, K has provided an estimate in relation to the electrics. This is significantly higher
than the amount AXA consider to be a fair assessment of the cost  had the work been done
promptly. The quote provided by K is for some years later so its likely there has been further
deterioration. Its also noted that some of the work on Ks quote is for redecoration, but thats
already included in the settlement offered so wouldnt need to be done twice.
Overall, while I think AXA could have handled the claim better than they did, I dont think
theyre responsible for any financial losses K might say it has incurred as a result. AXA have
shown that they had to chase K regularly and then take on work K had reasonably been
asked to carry out. Had K done this I think the claim could have been resolved far quicker.
In closing, I appreciate the director of K who brought this case to our service may have found
the matter to be distressing  in particular around AXAs complaint handling  but with K
being a limited company, I cant make any award for that.
K replied, making a number of points as to why they disagreed. I wont cover those in full 
here, but they relate to the issue of commercial contractors, underinsurance, loss of rent, 
inflation, carpets and electrics.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am still of the view that AXA dont need to do anything further in respect of 
Ks complaint. This is largely for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision, although I 
will address what K has raised in response to that. It may be helpful at this stage to add that 
we rely on evidence provided by each party, and where professional reports or opinions are 
provided theyll generally be accepted, unless there is evidence that persuades us not to. 
So, in cases like this, it will usually require the complainant to provide such counter evidence 
and I dont think Ive seen that.
Commercial contractors
I appreciate K maintains the point that the contractors were inadequate from the start and that was why the scope of work had to be updated. However, having further researched this, 
I note that the contractors do carry out commercial work and are experienced in insurance 
reinstatement. Their website shows that their first major construction contract was many 
years prior to Ks claim.
So, Im satisfied they were appropriately instructed. I do accept that some additions had to 
be made following further visits, but they were for relatively minor things, and thats generally 
to be expected in large claims.
K also made the point that no offers of interim payment had been forthcoming and that it was 
made clear that work couldnt commence until the claim was fully settled. But I havent seen 
anything to support that. And I note that AXAs first offer gave the option of either submitting 
repair invoices following repairs or to settle without invoices. So, I dont think they were being 
as prescriptive as K has said.
Underinsurance
K maintains that it hasnt been provided with details of this. And while I can accept that it 
might not have received the level of detail it would like, this was adequately addressed in 
correspondence as early as December 2014. AXA provided the approximate total floor area 
and the rebuilding cost per square metre. And regardless of that, K could have provided their 
own calculations  if they disputed what AXA said.
Loss of rent
K still doesnt accept that six months is adequate and points again to delays on the part of 
AXA. But I have seen AXAs correspondence in which they regularly chased K for 
reinstatement quotes and explained that if they werent provided this could affect the loss of 
rent payment.
AXA estimated a two-month tender period and three months to complete reinstatement, 
saying six months total loss of rent would be fair. It may be helpful for me to explain that I 
would consider AXA to be reasonable in relying on advices received from their loss adjusters 
and if K wanted to provide alternative expert evidence, that six months was insufficient, it 
would have been welcome to do so.
Inflation
I said in my provisional decision that I felt the offer of £35,000 would likely more than allow 
for inflation since the first offer was made. K doesnt agree, and says the reason it was 
increased was because of the additions that had to be made to the previous offer. But those 
additions were in the region of £3,000; whereas the offer increased by around £10,000. So, I 
think this point still stands. And I still think K could have accepted an interim offer, to start the 
repairs earlier and to mitigate some of this.
K says there was no allowance for skips, but Ive seen that detailed on the scope of works, 
so I cant agree with that point. And it refers to increases in utilities in the last few years. In 
my experience, where utilities are covered, theyre often settled after the repairs have been 
completed, because those losses will have crystallised. So, I dont think a lack of allowance 
for those upfront is a failing on AXAs part.
Carpets
I appreciate K believes their quote should take preference over AXAs estimate. But I dont 
agree, AXA is entitled to rely on their estimate and their reason for not accepting Ks isnt unfair. Furthermore, AXA said they would still be prepared to consider a further quote from K 
if it was suitably detailed. I think thats reasonable.
Electrics
K also believes their quote for the electrics should take preference. But again, AXA are 
entitled to rely on their loss adjusters estimates. While K has challenged that with an 
alternative quote it includes redecoration which is already covered elsewhere in the scope of 
works  so it isnt like-for-like. And AXAs surveyor has explained that the electrical system 
was out of date and the wiring sparse and not up to current regulations. So, any settlement 
amount would be reduced to take into account that betterment isnt allowed for.
K has also said that I had chosen to rule out time-lines. I would like to clarify that I havent 
ruled it out. But I have had to be generally pragmatic as the matter dates back to 2014. And 
Ive seen evidence of AXA having to chase K on numerous occasions, which doesnt paint 
the picture of them unnecessarily delaying matters  nor does it show that K was keen to 
have the matter settled promptly.
Overall, I remain satisfied that AXA doesnt have to do anything further in respect of Ks 
complaint.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman