DRN-2301430
The complaint
Miss K complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision relating to this complaint in August 2020. In that decision
I explained why I thought most of Miss K's complaint should be upheld. Both parties have
received a copy of that provisional decision, but in summary I said;
Miss K was given six loans by Varooma between January 2017 and March 2018. Each of 
the loans was secured against a vehicle that she owned. At times Miss K had more than one 
loan running concurrently. Miss K successfully repaid the first five loans (sometimes by 
refinancing the loan with some new borrowing) but she had a balance still outstanding on her 
final loan when she made her complaint. A summary of Miss Ks borrowing from Varooma is 
as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
AmountTerm 
(Months)
1 04/01/2017 05/07/2017 £ 6,000 60
2 05/06/2017 15/01/2018 £ 6,000 24
3 05/07/2017 06/07/2017 £ 7,000 60
4 22/07/2017 01/02/2018 £ 7,000 48
5 15/01/2018 01/02/2018 £ 3,500 36
6 22/03/2018 - £ 3,000 24
I explained the relevant regulations that Varooma needed to follow when lending to Miss K, 
and that at different stages of their relationship different levels of checks might be 
appropriate.
I didnt think that the checks Varooma had done before agreeing any of the loans had been 
proportionate. On each of the loans Miss K needed to make monthly repayments for periods 
of between two and five years. So I would expect that Varooma would have wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Ks financial 
circumstances before it agreed to give each loan to her.
I looked at copies of Miss Ks bank statements from around the time she applied for each 
loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that Varooma should have done. But 
given I think the lender should have sought a full and independent view of Miss Ks financial 
position I think looking at her bank statements gives me the best picture of what the lender 
should have seen. And for clarity I will note that Miss K operated three bank accounts for 
most of the time she was borrowing from Varooma. But I think that should have been clear to 
the lender too  the evidence it gathered about her income showed those payments been 
made into different accounts.
I didnt think the evidence from Miss Ks bank statements at the time of loan 1 suggested 
that her application should have been declined. Her accounts were generally well managed 
with little evidence of unpaid transactions or other short term borrowing. And although there 
was some evidence of gambling transactions I dont think they were at a level that should 
have caused concern to the lender.
But by the time of loan 2 Miss Ks finances had become under significant pressure. Her 
gambling problems had increased to an unsustainable level. She was supporting that 
spending by borrowing  both from Varooma and a range of other high cost lenders. In the 
space of just under seven weeks Miss K took three separate loans from Varooma. And at 
the end of that period she had two active loans, secured against different vehicles, with 
repayments totalling almost £650 per month. And when Miss K took her last two loans her 
spending on online gambling exceeded her normal income.
So I didnt think Varooma should have agreed to lend to Miss K after, and including, the 
second loan. I thought Varooma needed to pay her some compensation.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence. Miss K has told us 
that she accepts my provisional decision. Varooma provided us with some further 
comments. Although I am only summarising here what Varooma has said, I have considered 
its entire response carefully before writing this decision.
Varooma pointed out that Miss K had repaid two of her loans very shortly after taking them 
out. And it said that three other loans were top ups to other borrowing. It says Miss K was 
never in arrears on the first five loans and that there was no suggestion of the loans being 
unaffordable during their duration. Varooma confirmed that it still accepted our adjudicators 
assessment that it shouldnt have given the final loan to Miss K.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about what Varooma has said, I am not persuaded that I should 
change my provisional findings. But I would like to comment further on the points that it has 
raised.
I dont share Varoomas inference that a consumer repaying loans much earlier than agreed 
shows financial stability. Whilst that might be the case, I think it could just as easily suggest 
that a consumer is finding it difficult to manage their finances and borrowing from multiple 
different sources to meet their repayments. Or, as I think is likely the case here, Miss K was 
reliant on winnings from her gambling activities to repay her borrowing. Where she had been 
successful she was able to repay the entire loan shortly after it had been borrowed.
It isnt enough to consider whether a consumer has repaid their borrowing. A lender needs to 
be confident that a consumer can repay future borrowing in a sustainable manner. And that 
would suggest those repayments would need to be funded from a consumers normal 
income or savings. I dont think what Varooma would have seen from better checks would 
have suggested with any degree of confidence that it was likely that was how Miss K could 
repay the last five loans. Her bank statements clearly showed someone facing increasing 
problems managing their finances.So my decision remains that I dont think Varooma should have agreed to lend to Miss K 
after, and including, the second loan. Varooma needs to pay her some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think that Varooma should have agreed to lend to Miss K after, and including, the loan 
she was given on 5 June 2017 (loan 2). I have noted that Varooma has said that it has 
already paid Miss K some compensation in relation to loan 6. Although I include that loan in 
the redress below for completeness, I have acknowledged that the redress for this loan 
might already have been paid. So Varooma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss K on loans 2 to 5.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in relation to loans 
2 to 5.
In relation to loan 6, if it hasnt already done so, Varooma should;
Remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 6 and treat all the 
payments Miss K made towards this loan as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ks loan account as Ive directed results in her having effectively 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Varooma should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Varooma 
can use the total refund for loans 2 to 5 (after the deduction of tax) to offset this.
Cancel the bill of sale and return the V5 document
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in relation to loan 6.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold most of Miss Ks complaint and direct Greenlight Credit Ltd 
to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman