DRN-1882633
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold two policies by ReAssure Limited. Reference to 
ReAssure includes its agents
What happened
In 1997 Mr M was sold two policies by ReAssure  an Accident Income Protection policy and 
an Accident Crisis policy. Mr M cancelled the Accident Crisis policy in 1998. He didnt cancel 
the Income Protection cover in case he needed to claim from it in the future.
Mr M complained to reassure in 2019. He wasnt happy with the sales tactics used to sell 
him the policies and felt he was pressurised into taking them out.
ReAssure didnt uphold his complaint. It said the sales were on a non-advised basis, and 
Mr M had enough information to choose whether to take the policies out, continue to be 
covered, or cancel them.
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint here. He wanted an 
acknowledgement the sales tactics used to sell him the policies werent fair. Our investigator 
didnt recommend his complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was enough evidence 
ReAssure had acted unfairly and didnt think its actions had caused Mr M detriment.
Mr M remained unhappy. Hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for, but Ill explain my reasons below.
Mr M was sold two policies in 1997. ReAssure has said these were sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means it didnt carry out an assessment of whether the policies suited Mr Ms 
needs. From the evidence, theres nothing to suggest this wasnt a non-advised sale. Indeed 
Mr Ms point that no check was carried out supports that the sale was most likely non-
advised.
A non-advised sale means ReAssure wasnt required to make sure the policies suited his 
needs. But it did need to make sure he was given enough information to make an informed 
decision. Ive seen the information Mr M was given and Im satisfied it clearly outlines what 
Mr M will and wont be covered for.
Although the sale of the policies wasnt advised, Ive still checked to see if the policies were 
of use to Mr M  Ive checked to see if he could have made a successful claim from them. 
Im satisfied they were of use. I appreciate Mr M didnt need to make a claim from either, but 
they offered him cover for events he may have needed to claim for. Mr M cancelled one 
policy after deciding he didnt want to continue with it, and he chose to continue with the 
second policy in case he needed it, knowing what it covered him for.
I cant say for certain what happened at the point of sale, I wasnt there. But in any case, I 
need to see what detriment was caused by ReAssures actions. And in this case, I cant say 
any tactic used in the sale of the policies has caused Mr M detriment. He was sold two 
policies and given information on both. One he decided to cancel and did. The other he 
decided to keep, knowing what cover it offered him and that he could cancel it should he 
wish to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman