DRN-1437133
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains about poor service from Santander Cards UK Limited in connection with a 
refund payment. 
What happened
Mrs R was due a refund from Santander. But the bank paid it the insolvency service, 
because it wrongly thought Mrs R was the subject of insolvency proceedings. Mrs R said this 
caused considerable worry and distress.
Santander accepted it had made a mistake, and adjusted Mrs R's refund so that she didn't 
suffer any financial loss. The bank also offered £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset 
caused. Mrs R remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She considered Santander's 
mistake had caused considerable distress to Mrs R, and that Mrs R had spent a lot of time 
trying to resolve the matter. The investigator concluded Santander should pay total 
compensation of £350.
Santander didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions. It said it was willing to pay £150 in 
total, but it considered anything more to be excessive. The matter has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've had the opportunity to listen to some of the calls between Santander and Mrs R's 
husband when the incorrect insolvency information was identified. It seems there were other 
calls, and Santander has provided copies of the notes that were taken about those calls. 
From what I've seen and listened to, I'm satisfied I've got enough information to reach 
conclusions on the issues that are the subject of this complaint.
Mrs R's husband was told Santander checked the insolvency register, which included 
someone with the same name as Mrs R. Santander said it then referred this to the relevant 
insolvency practitioner, who told it the person was Mrs R.
Mrs R's husband told Santander that the address details for the person on the register were 
different to Mrs R's. Santander said it was possible Mrs R had moved since the insolvency 
proceedings took place, and it maintained its processes were correct. It said Mrs R would 
need to contact the insolvency service if she disputed the insolvency order applied to her.
I accept that the details Santander gave Mrs R's husband about its processes may have 
been correct. But I'm mindful that the nature of the incorrect information Mrs R and her husband were dealing with was particularly worrying. Mrs R's husband mentioned this in the 
call with Santander.
With that in mind, and having listened to the call, I think Santander could've done more to try 
to help Mrs R and her husband resolve the matter. I don't think it would've been 
unreasonable for Santander to carry out further checks on the address details it held, or 
contact the insolvency practitioner to cross-check the records held there.
Had it done so, Mrs R and her husband could've avoided unnecessary worry and calls to the 
insolvency practitioner.
Keeping in mind the nature of the information that was wrong, and the trouble and upset 
caused by Santander's poor service, I don't consider £150 compensation is enough. I agree 
with the investigator that Santander should pay total compensation of £350 to Mrs R. 
Putting things right
Santander Cards UK Limited should pay total compensation of £350 to Mrs R.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander Cards UK Limited to pay 
compensation to Mrs R in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman