DRN-4421389
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc blocked their account and led 
to them being charged an additional fee for the purchase of a house. Theyd like the Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to refund them the additional costs. 
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J are represented by a solicitor. For ease Ill refer to any communication from 
Mr J and Mrs Js solicitor as though it was from Mr J and Mrs J themselves. 
Mr J and Mrs J had a joint account with the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS). 
On 11 June 2022 Mr J visited an RBS branch where he asked to make a transfer of 
£612,000 from their joint account to complete on a house. Mr J and Mrs J had already paid a 
deposit of £68,000. 
RBS asked Mr J to provide proof of entitlement for the funds in his account. Mr J didnt have 
any proof of entitlement at the time, and the transfer couldnt be completed. Mr J claims he 
provided this on 12 June 2022. RBS disagree and advise Mr J provided bank statements on 
14 and 15 June 2022. 
On 11 June 2022 Mr J and Mrs Js solicitors received a letter from the sellers solicitors 
informing them theyd failed to complete on the property. And if the purchase wasnt 
completed within 10 working days theyd forfeit their deposit of £68,000. 
Mr J advises that after providing proof of entitlement he repeatedly contacted RBS and 
informed them about the urgency of the payment. And the need for the funds to be released.
Mr J and Mrs Js funds were released on 28 June 2022, however they were informed on the 
same day that the purchase had fallen through. And they would forfeit their deposit. But, the 
seller then agreed to sell the property for a further £34,000, which Mr J and Mrs J agreed to. 
Mr J and Mrs J complained to RBS that the blocking of their funds meant theyd incurred 
additional costs of £34,000 on the property purchase. 
RBS didnt agree, and argued the funds were released after theyd followed their internal 
processes. 
Mr J and Mrs J werent satisfied so brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators picked up Mr J and Mrs Js complaint. They asked Mr J and Mrs J 
for evidence of the house purchase, the correspondence from the sellers solicitor and the 
additional charge paid. They asked RBS for further details regarding why the funds were 
withheld from 11 June 2022 to 28 June 2022. 
On receiving RBSs explanation our investigator concluded that they hadnt acted unfairly in 
restricting the account. He advised theyd met their legal and regulatory obligations in 
blocking the account  and did so in a reasonable timeframe. He also felt Mr J and Mrs J 
could have done more to mitigate the impact of the block. 
Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree. In summary they said:
The majority of the funds were held in their account prior to completion
RBS was fully aware that it was a priority payment
Its unclear why RBS couldnt complete their checks in 13 days
Mr J went in almost every day to speak to RBS about the funds
As Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr J, 
Mrs J and RBS have said before reaching my decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information RBS has 
provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
RBS are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened I 
appreciate why Mr J and Mrs J may have found this inconvenient, but RBS must ensure they 
keep their due diligence checks updated at all times. 
As part of their review, RBS asked Mr J and Mrs J for information about the money in their 
account and where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their obligations. Having 
reviewed everything, I do think RBSs requests were reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive moved on to consider the length of the review. Mr J and Mrs J are unhappy the review 
took longer than 13 days, and argue in taking so long RBS caused them to almost lose their 
deposit, and have to pay an additional fee of £34,000 to still purchase the house. I realise 
this will disappoint Mr J and Mrs J but I cant say the length of time RBS took to carry out the 
review, and ultimately release Mr J and Mrs Js funds, was unfair. I appreciate that theres a 
disagreement about when Mr J provided bank statements showing where the funds in their 
account came from. However, whether this was 12 June 2022 or 15 June 2022 I cant say 
the time period was unreasonably long  or Id have expected the funds to be released 
within ten working days of the original completion date. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I cant say that RBS acted unfairly in restricting Mr J and Mrs Js funds. It follows I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman