DRN-1414088
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive commercial loan application that a company Ill call E 
made to Lloyds Bank PLC. The application failed because Lloyds required the lease 
between E and its tenant to be fifteen years, to match the loan term. E says it told the bank 
at the outset that the tenant had a five-year lease. Lloyds has paid £900 compensation for 
inconvenience and the cost of phone calls. E says Lloyds should have realised much sooner 
than it did that the lease was only five years, and is looking for a refund of the legal costs 
and valuation.
What happened
The negotiations with Lloyds for the loan were carried out by Mr W; he had been a director of 
E but was company secretary at the time of the application. Mr W also began the complaint 
with us, but our rules require a limited company complaint to be made by its director(s). The 
current director, Mr A, agreed to lead the complaint and weve dealt with him since.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. Mr W says he sent an email to the 
bank in early March 2019 saying the lease was for five years. Lloyds doesnt dispute that, 
but says that it told Mr W in a phone call on 29 March 2019 that it would require a 
fifteen-year lease, and that he agreed to proceed with the application on that basis. Mr W 
said this wasnt true, but Ive listened to the call and am satisfied that its true. Lloyds very 
clearly advised Mr W of the requirement for a fifteen-year lease.
Its reasonable to conclude from this that when Mr W agreed to go ahead with Es application 
knowing a fifteen-year lease was a condition of lending, Lloyds would have inferred that E 
intended re-negotiating the lease before completing the purchase. 
E didnt need the loan in order to buy the property; it was able to acquired it and then offer it 
up as security for the commercial loan. Ive seen the report on title that Es solicitor sent to 
Lloyds in June 2019; this shows that the property had been acquired on 25 April 2019. It also 
shows that the lease between landlord and tenant was for five years, running from 25 
October 2018.So E bought the property with a sitting tenant.
Put all of the above together and its quite apparent that E agreed to go ahead with the 
application on 29 March 2019 knowing that a fifteen-year lease was a condition of Lloyds 
even considering to lend it money. It then bought the property almost a month later, knowing 
it couldnt meet that condition. The lease was only five years (six months of which had 
already elapsed). 
So it doesnt really matter whether Lloyds could have known sooner than it did that it 
wouldnt be able to lend. E completed the purchase knowing Lloyds wouldnt lend. It had 
ample opportunity to let the bank know and call a halt to the application, and prevent the 
incurrence of the costs its now saying it shouldnt have had to pay. As it did not do that, 
theres no proper basis for me to award any redress to E beyond that which Lloyds has 
already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Lloyds Bank PLC. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman