DRN-4307403
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 24 April 2023 Miss B took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands to cover her cat. 
The policy covered accidents and illnesses. On 2 May the cat became unwell. Hed been 
playing with a cat toy and part of the toy had become lodged in his stomach. On 5 May he 
needed surgery to remove the foreign body.
Miss B made a claim under the policy for the cost of the surgery. Red Sands declined the 
claim. It said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions and as the cat had had a foreign 
body removed in January 2023, it was treating this as a pre-existing condition. 
As Red Sands didnt change its decision, Miss B brought a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Red Sands had 
treated Miss B unfairly.
As Miss B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. There is 
an exclusion in the policy for the cost of any treatment for a pre-existing condition. Red 
Sands explained before the policy was taken out:
We consider a condition to be pre-existing if your pet showed any signs or symptoms of it 
before your cover start date, whether they needed treatment previously or not.
The policy says:
Any injuries caused by accidents your pet had before you took out this policy will also be 
considered pre-existing conditions.
 The policy goes on to say:
When we say condition, we mean any injury or illness with a single cause or diagnosis.
This service has a long-standing approach when considering complaints regarding pre-
existing conditions. We consider it fair and reasonable for a business to decline a claim on 
the basis of a pre-existing condition only where the consumer had reasonable knowledge of 
something that could at some point give rise to a claim.
In this case the vets notes from January 2023 say that the cat had vomited up a bit of a 
small rubber toy. Surgery revealed a small intestinal foreign body.
In May 2023 the vet said that the cat had Presented with similar clinical signs. Is a known 
scavenger. The vet could feel something small and slightly firm in caudal abdomen. Size is 
1 cm long and 5 cm wide.  
Miss B says that in January 2023 the cat ate a piece of rubber. In May he was found to have 
eaten a piece of a cat toy. 
The vets notes show that the cat had presented with similar symptoms on both occasions. 
The notes also say that the cat was a scavenger. So the two incidents were very similar and 
were both caused by the cat eating something he wasnt meant to. 
I think its reasonable to assume that Miss B knew her cat was likely to eat things that arent 
meant to be eaten when given the chance. I appreciate that on the second occasion he ate a 
toy that was meant to be suitable for cats to play with. The fact that it turned out not to be 
suitable is a matter between Miss B and the manufacturer or seller of the toy. 
In conclusion, I dont think Red Sands acted unfairly in declining the claim due to a pre-
existing condition.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman