DRN-3303949
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Ms G and Ms G took out in 
2014, and then increased in 2016 and 2017, on the advice of Key Retirement Solutions 
Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold, chiefly because Ms G and 
Ms G say Key didnt tell them that interest would accrue on a compound basis. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint; particularly if it 
relates to alleged acts or omissions by a party other than Key. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Ms G and Ms G took the mortgage out in 2014, and then added to it by two further 
advances, in 2016 and 2017 respectively. The terms of the mortgage provide that no 
monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if 
the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be 
repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an early repayment 
charge (ERC) is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
More recently, Miss G and Miss G sold the mortgaged property and relocated to a smaller 
property; they repaid the original mortgage, took a smaller one on the new property, and 
paid an ERC on the difference between the two. They still have the equity release mortgage 
now, and have told us a different lender has recently offered them a new one.
The main reasons given for believing that the mortgage had been mis-sold in 2014 is that 
Ms G and Ms G say Key never told them interest would accrue on a compounded basis. If it 
had, they say theyd never have contemplated the arrangement, having been discouraged 
from doing so by previous experience. Additionally, Ms G and Ms G have told us that each 
time they borrowed money, the property was valued at less than its true worth. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Ms G and Ms G asked for the 
case to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Key did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought. 
Also, this decision is solely about the actions of Key, the firm that arranged the mortgage 
and further advances. Im not looking at anything the lender or any other party did or didnt 
do, including how the porting of the debt to the new property was handled. That was 
organised directly with the lender, with no involvement from Key.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, 
well generally attach some weight to it.
Starting with the original sale in 2014, the information-gathering exercise identified that Ms G 
and Ms G had various specific financial objectives. Chief among these was to provide a 
payment to a sibling in exchange for his equitable interest in the property, repay an existing 
regular mortgage and provide funds to refurbish the property. By proceeding with the 
application, Ms G and Ms G signed to confirm the information given about their personal 
circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time. 
Ms G and Ms G have told us theyd already spent all their savings on improvements to the 
property, but needed more money to complete the work. Given their overall financial 
circumstances that prevailed at the time, its very unlikely that Ms G and Ms G would have 
been accepted for a traditional mortgage, given their age and circumstances and income, 
always assuming they wanted, or were able, to make regular monthly payments. That 
indicates to me that an equity release was probably the most, possibly the only, viable option 
for Ms G and Ms G given the circumstances recorded at the time. 
Key recommended Ms G and Ms G borrow an initial sum and keep a reserve in hand for 
future drawdowns; the point of sale records show that Ms G and Ms G preferred to borrow 
the maximum amount in one go, right from the outset. The amended (and final) mortgage 
offer reflected that, and the mortgage Ms G and Ms G took out on Keys recommendation 
raised the money theyd asked for, as did the subsequent further advances. Ms G and Ms G say they were told they could move to any property they wished in future. 
The terms of the mortgage agreement do allow the debt to be ported (that is, transferred to 
and secured on a different property) in the event the borrower later wishes to move. Its not a 
guaranteed entitlement; its dependent on the new property being acceptable security to the 
lender. Thats why the offer says:
If you buy a new home, you may be able to transfer your lifetime mortgage to your new
home, or you may be able to get a new lifetime mortgage.
(my emphasis)
Thats now happened, but it wasnt something Ms G and Ms G were contemplating in 2014 
when Key first advised them. The point-of-sale documentation from 2014 records they had 
no intention of moving at that time, and Keys advice and recommendation would have 
reflected that. I reiterate that hindsight and subsequent events dont factor in my assessment 
of the advice Key gave. In any event, porting decisions are a matter for the lender to assess 
at the relevant time, if and when a borrower asks about moving to a different property.
That brings me to the question of interest. Having no regulatory function means its not my 
role to decide if a particular interest rate is fair or not. So I can only comment in general 
terms. Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to 
attract further interest on a compounding basis. 
The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen 
the offer for the original mortgage from 2014; it uses an assumption that the mortgage will 
last for 26 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out this assumption and reminding the 
reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
The rate charged is fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out in the offer, as 
is the compounding effect. I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Ms G and Ms G 
studied the offer, or how much of the information it contained they assimilated; but I will 
return to this point in due course. Nonetheless, the information was set out in a manner 
prescribed by the FCA. 
The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been normal on equity release 
mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the 
interest rolls up. Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when 
deciding how much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how 
their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage 
offer, as it was in this case. 
Similarly, the mortgage offer document sets out the provision for an ERC; the circumstances 
in which it might be chargeable, a description of the mechanism for calculating it, and finally 
some numerical examples, including the maximum amount the ERC could possibly be.
For completeness, formal written offers were provided for the 2016 and 2017 further 
advances in exactly the same format as the original from 2014, and so all of the information 
Ive referenced in the preceding paragraphs was presented to Ms G and Ms G for the 
additional borrowing.
Ms G and Ms G say that each time they borrowed money their home was valued at less than 
its true worth. But Key didnt decide how much their home was worth, and nor did the lender 
that provided the money. The valuations were provided by the surveyor appointed by the 
lender, and the lender then legitimately relied on the surveyors professional opinions when it 
made the lending decisions. Key played no part in that process.In these circumstances, neither the lender that provided the mortgage nor the broker (i.e. 
Key, the subject of this complaint) that arranged it has any liability for any shortcomings 
there might have been on the part of the valuer. I should also make clear that Im not 
implying, and it should not be inferred, that there was anything wrong with the valuations. 
Ive not  because I have no power to do so  considered whether the surveyors opinions 
were accurate or not. 
Theres one last thing; Ms G and Ms G didnt just have the benefit of financial advice from 
Key when taking out this mortgage. Thats because, before they took out the mortgage, they 
were required to have independent legal advice from a solicitor. The solicitor in question was 
Ms G and Ms Gs own solicitor, whom they instructed directly.
I have seen a copy of the certificate their solicitor signed in respect of the original sale. By 
signing the certificate, the solicitor was confirming that the terms of the mortgage (which will 
have included the compound nature of the interest accrual that is the very crux of this 
complaint) had been explained to Ms G and Ms G, and that he was satisfied theyd 
understood and were happy with the contract. 
I think that if the solicitor had any concerns that Ms G and Ms G didnt understand the nature 
and effect of what they were doing, they wouldnt have been allowed to proceed with the 
mortgage. There was no requirement for the same process to be replicated in respect of the 
further advances.
If Ms G and Ms G consider there was any shortcoming in the legal advice they received, 
thats matter for them to take up with their solicitors. The relationship between solicitor and 
consumer remains separate, discrete, and independent from the relationship between advice 
firm and customer.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman