DRN-2961731
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr B and the estate of the late Mrs B. They say that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading at the time as Midland Bank) mis-sold Mr and Mrs B a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in late 1990. Mr and Mrs B paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It helped cover their 
mortgage payments in case of accidents, illnesses, or unemployment. To clarify, this policy 
was taken out to cover their mortgage, and not an overdraft or other product.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B and the estate of Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over three decades ago, and HSBC was required under data protection rules 
to dispose of Mr and Mrs Bs data rather than hold onto it for too long. So understandably, 
only limited documentation remains. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the information I have.
From the sales documentation Ive seen, PPI was something HSBC only recommended 
borrowers thought about  and this was just a recommendation, not a requirement. In order 
to get a policy, it looks like Mr and Mrs B would need to have specifically applied for it, 
separately to applying for the lending itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the 
mortgage. I can see it was not a condition of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, either. Theres a 
handwritten note on the product literature Mr and Mrs B provided indicating that they 
completed an application for PPI in late 1990 and were aware of its cost and benefit. Ive not 
seen any wider problems with HSBCs sales process from the time, nor anything which 
shows that it misled or unfairly pressured Mr and Mrs B into having PPI here. So I think its 
most likely that HSBC made Mr and Mrs B aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs B, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on HSBC if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr B and the 
late Mrs B as possible, Ill assess things as if it did. That would mean HSBC had to check the 
policy was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. While they were self-employed, the policy covered 
self-employed people and it wouldnt have been significantly harder or onerous for them to 
claim if theyd needed to. They didnt have any sick pay or redundancy benefits from an 
employer, and they dont appear to have had any significant savings either.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B did have an endowment policy in place, but that covered 
very different things to the PPI and was not an alternative to PPI, so Im afraid its not 
relevant in this regard. I also understand that Mr B took out an income protection policy 
some months later. But it looks like this was after the sale of the PPI, so it would not have 
been relevant at the time he bought PPI. And in his case, the PPI was for his mortgage 
related costs, so it would not have been unreasonable for him to have also taken out 
protection for all the other living costs hed have to cover in case he couldnt work. Its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs B had fallen behind on their mortgage repayments, they 
couldve lost their home. So in their situation, it looks like the PPI could have been useful for 
them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs B werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so it didnt attract interest, and 
Mr and Mrs B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold this complaint about the sale of this 
particular PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and the 
estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman