DRN-2877688
The complaint
 Ms C is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 3 March 2020, Ms C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage. The agreement was arranged by a credit broker and was for £2,945 over 54 
months; with 53 monthly repayments of £96.15 and a final payment of £296.15. At the time 
of supply, the car was almost 8 years old and had done 40,579 miles.
On 9 March 2020, Ms C contacted the credit broker and complained that she was having 
issues with the car  she was having problems shutting the passenger door and the boot. 
The credit broker told Ms C theyd contacted the dealership about this. But, due to the 
national lockdown, the dealership was closed, and they wouldnt be able to consider Ms Cs 
concerns until they reopened. On 11 May 2020, the credit broker told Ms C the dealership 
would contact her to arrange to inspect the car, but this may be towards the end of May.
On 31 May 2020 Ms C complained to the credit broker again  she was struggling to start 
the car, it shook while driving, and it wouldnt go above 60mph. The credit broker said theyd 
spoken to the dealership, whod told them this was being dealt with under the warranty. So, 
on 1 July 2020, they closed their complaint. It was at this point that the credit broker first 
made Advantage aware of the issues by copying them into an email of 1 July 2020, saying 
the complaint was being closed because of the warranty repairs.
Ms C complained directly to Advantage on 20 July 2020. She also had the car inspected by 
an independent garage on 22 July 2020. And the garage said the EGR valve needed to be 
replaced, at a cost of £171. Advantage arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent engineer. On 7 August 2020, the independent engineer said there were faults 
with the car that were present when the car was supplied to Ms C. Advantage agreed to 
repair these faults. But Ms C didnt accept this offer, and she wanted to reject the car  
because of whatd happened and the uncertainty around the car shed been supplied, shed 
already purchased another car.
Because Ms C wasnt happy with Advantages response, she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. Our investigator said that the issues 
identified by the independent engineer, made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Ms C. But he didnt think that the issues with the passenger door and boot, in 
isolation, had made the car unsatisfactory. Which meant that Ms C didnt have the short-term 
right to reject the car, and Advantage had the right to repair.
But the investigator also said that any repair should be completed in a reasonable amount of 
time, and without significant inconvenience to Ms C. And he didnt think that Advantages 
offer to repair the car was made within a reasonable amount of time. So he thought, given 
these circumstances, Ms C should be allowed to reject the car. And he also said, because 
Ms C stopped using the car in July 2020, Advantage should refund her all payments from 
this date, along with a pro-rata refund of her insurance, road tax and warranty; as well as 
refunding the whole deposit. And interest should be paid on these amounts. In addition, he 
thought Advantage should pay Ms C £200 for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Advantage didnt agree with the investigators view. While they agreed the mechanical faults 
with the car made it of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, they said Ms C didnt 
contact them until 20 July 2020. And they say they asked the dealership to arrange to repair 
the car on 17 August 2020, confirming this to Ms C in writing on 7 September 2020  which 
was within the 8-weeks they have to deal with a complaint. So Advantage thought theyd 
made their offer to repair the car within a reasonable time period. 
Because of this, Advantage thought they should have the opportunity to repair the car. And 
they also thought it would be reasonable to refund Ms C one payment, to cover the period 
between 20 July and 17 August 2020, when they were investigating her complaint. So 
theyve asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
Ms C has also said that, despite the car being registered as being off the road, it was 
clamped by the DVLA in early May 2021. Shes being asked to pay £260 to release the car, 
otherwise itll be taken away and crushed. And she cant tax the car without an MOT, which 
she cant get while the car remains unrepaired. Ms C would also like this to be taken into 
consideration when the ombudsman makes their decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2021, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint, but with a different remedy to that recommended by the investigator. In that 
decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Advantage are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In 
a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and 
the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the components within the car 
must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Advantage can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Ms C took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, 
itd be fair and reasonable to ask Advantage to put this right.
Ive seen that Ms C raised her issues with the credit broker. But a complaint to the credit 
broker isnt a complaint to Advantage  Advantage wouldnt know Ms C had raised any 
issues unless the credit broker told them. Advantage say that the first time Ms C complained 
to them was on 20 July 2020, and Ive not seen anything that shows me something different.
Ive seen that, in an email dated 30 July 2020, responding to Ms Cs complaint, Advantage 
said the offer to cover the cost of the repairs [of the EGR valve, identified by Ms Cs 
diagnostic report] is in place of the inspection, if you are experiencing more issues with the 
vehicle that are not just associated with the EGR then I would suggest going through the 
inspection instead.Ms C wasnt happy with just the EGR valve being repaired, and Advantage arranged for the 
car to be inspected by an independent engineer. The independent engineers report of 7 
August 2020 said the noisy gearbox was apparent from the road test and would likely have 
been developing from the point of purchase  there is an issue with the transmission which 
will require the transmission to be removed and overhauled, as necessary. Given the 
minimal mileage that this vehicle has covered since the date of purchase, we are led to the 
conclusion that the vehicles symptoms were underlying at the point of sale.
The independent engineer also said there does appear to be an intermittent issue which 
may well be associated with a partially blocked EGR valve or a partially blocked DPF; both 
scenarios would be classed as in-service, general wear & tear rather than a material failure. 
In our opinion the vehicle would benefit from having the EGR valve and DPF filter cleaned 
and regenerated. At the time of the inspection, the car had done 41,589 miles.
Based upon the above, Im satisfied there was a fault with the gearbox/transmission which 
made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms C. But the issues Ms C 
was experiencing with the passenger door and boot, as well as the faults with the EGR valve 
and DPF filter, in themselves didnt make the car of an unsatisfactory quality. This means 
that, because Ms C didnt raise the issues that related to the gearbox/transmission until 31 
May 2020, she doesnt have the short-term right to reject under the CRA  this right needs to 
be exercised in the first 30 days. And Advantage are allowed one chance to repair the car.
Advantages file notes show they discussed the independent engineers report with Ms C on 
12 August 2020 and, on 17 August 2020, the credit broker told Advantage that they would 
contact Ms C to arrange for the car to be repaired. Advantage also told Ms C that the credit 
broker would be in contact with her.
On 24 August 2020, Advantage spoke to Ms C about repairing the car and, on 4 September 
2020, Ms C asked Advantage if she could reject the car. In response, on 7 September 2020, 
Advantage told her that she currently only had the right of repair. But, if the repairs failed or 
werent completed to a satisfactory standard, then shed have the right to reject the car. And 
the following day they confirmed that the car could be collected, and the repairs completed, 
at no cost to Ms C. Given the requirements of the CRA, Im also satisfied that Advantage 
acted reasonably by attempting to arrange for the car to be repaired.
The investigator said that Advantage didnt offer to repair the car in time, but I disagree, and 
Ill explain why. The CRA says, where goods dont confirm to contract, the consumer has the 
right to repair or replacement. Section 23 specifically says:
(1) This section applies if the consumer has the right to repair or replacement
(2) If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must  
a. Do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer
So I need to consider if Advantage didnt make the offer to repair within a reasonable period 
of time and/or that they caused Ms C a significant amount of inconvenience. As Ive said, Ms 
C didnt complain about the faults that made the car of an unsatisfactory quality until 30 May 
2020. And this complaint was made to the credit broker. She first raised these issues with 
Advantage on 20 July 2020. Financial businesses have up to eight weeks in which to investigate a complaint and offer a 
resolution (if applicable). With a complaint raised on 20 July 2020, Advantage would have 
until 14 September 2020 to respond to Ms Cs complaint. However, if the date of the 
complaint is taken as 30 May 2020 (because the credit broker shouldve made Advantage 
aware of the issues when they received Ms Cs complaint), then Advantage would have until 
25 July 2020 to respond to Ms Cs complaint.
Advantage arranged for Ms Cs car to be inspected and, on 12 August 2020, told Ms C that 
they would arrange for her car to be repaired. This is well within the time frame allowed 
based on a complaint date of 20 July 2020. And its just over two weeks longer than the time 
frame allowed, based on a complaint date of 30 May 2020. So, even if I were to take the 
earlier date, I dont think that Advantages offer to repair the car took so long to make that it 
could be classed as being made in an unreasonable amount of time.
Looking at whether Advantages actions caused Ms C significant inconvenience, Ive seen 
their file notes show that, on 28 July 2020, Ms C told them she was stuck with no vehicle to 
use because you have advised me not to use it. While Advantage cant provide anything to 
show when they gave Ms C this advice, theyve said they wouldve done so  they said they 
give this advice because, if Ms C was to have driven the car while the fault was present, and 
caused further damage as a result, then she would be responsible for the costs of repairing 
the additional damage.
So, Ms C had use of the car until some point between 20 and 28 July 2020, when Advantage 
told her not to drive it (this advice couldnt have been given before 20 July 2020, because 
Advantage werent aware of the problems before this). And, on 12 August 2020, Advantage 
told Ms C that theyd repair the car. So this is a maximum period of 23 days that Ms C was 
without the use of this car. While I appreciate that this wouldve been an inconvenience to 
Ms C, I dont think this period of time was so significant that Advantage shouldnt have the 
right to repair under the CRA.
Ms C didnt agree to the car being repaired, so it remains unused. The MOT expired in 
November 2020, and she declared the car as being off the road when the road tax came for 
renewal. Ms C said shes brought another car, so she no longer needs this one, and would 
like Advantage to take it back. While I appreciate the situation shes now in, Ms C no longer 
wanting or needing the car isnt a reason for rejection under the CRA. And it doesnt mean 
that Advantage no longer have the right to repair  they still do.
The car remains unrepaired because Ms C wouldnt let the repair happen. But, for the 
reasons stated above, Im satisfied that the car should be repaired. So, my provisional 
decision is that Advantage should:
Arrange for the car to be collected, and the faults identified in the independent 
engineers report of 7 August 2020 repaired, at no cost to Ms C.
Refund Ms C one monthly payment for the period of time they told her not to use the 
car for (mid-July until mid-August 2020); plus 8% simple interest from the date of the 
July 2020 payment until the date of the refund.
Pay Ms C £200 for in inconvenience of not having use of the car from when they told 
her not to use it until they offered repair; as Ms C wasnt offered any alternative 
transport (or transport costs) even though she needed a car to be able to work.
No other payments, or pro-rata refunds of road tax, car insurance or warranty, need to be 
refunded, because it was Ms Cs decision not to have the car repaired and restored to a 
working condition, and instead to leave it unused. And Advantage arent responsible for the 
costs related to the DVLA clamping the car  when Ms C declared the car to be off the road, 
it was her responsibility to ensure it was stored off the public roads.Responses
Advantage accepted my provisional decision, but Ms C didnt. She thought my decision was 
unfair because it didnt take into consideration that her profession required her to have a car 
at all times, and this led to her buying another car. Shes also said that my decision didnt 
consider that the faults were likely present on the car at the point of sale and that Advantage 
only offered to repair the EGR valve, not the gearbox. This is why she asked to reject the car 
- she didnt just choose not to have it repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered the comments raised by Ms C. Id recognised that she needed a car for her 
employment and would have to arrange for alternative transport while this car was off the 
road. This is the reason why I recommended Advantage pay her £200 for the inconvenience 
caused by her not being able to use the car from when Advantage told her not to drive it in 
mid- to late-July 2020, until they offered a repair in mid-August 2020.
The independent engineers report of 7 August 2020 made it clear that there was a fault with 
the cars transmission, that was present when the car was supplied to Ms C. I was satisfied 
that this report was reasonable to rely upon, and that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Ms C. The CRA gave Advantage the right to repair, and Id expect 
any repairs to be done on the basis of what the independent engineer said was wrong with 
the car i.e. the transmission needed to be removed and overhauled, and the EGR valve and 
DPF filter cleaned and regenerated. 
Advantage agreed to repair the car, based on the independent engineers report, and they 
have the right under the CRA to do these repairs. Ms C has provided an email from the 
dealership dated 4 September 2020 which says, the only repairs that have been advised by 
[Advantage] is the EGR valve as shown in the attached report. 
While Ive seen that Advantage offered to replace the EGR valve in July 2020  before the 
independent engineer was even instructed  I havent seen anything to show me that 
Advantage told the dealership to only repair the EGR valve in September 2020, even though 
the independent engineers report said the transmission and DPF filter also needed work. 
So, while I understand why this email mayve confused Ms C as to what work was going to 
be done, I dont think this means that Advantage werent going to repair the car as directed. 
So I dont think Ms C should have the right to reject the car instead of having it repaired.
So, for the reasons stated, Ms Cs comments dont change my provisional view.
Putting things right
 I remain satisfied that the car should be repaired, and Advantage should:
Arrange for the car to be collected, and the faults identified in the independent 
engineers report of 7 August 2020 repaired, at no cost to Ms C.
Refund Ms C one monthly payment for the period of time they told her not to use the 
car for (mid-July until mid-August 2020); plus 8% simple interest from the date of the 
July 2020 payment until the date of the refund.Pay Ms C £200 for in inconvenience of not having use of the car from when they told 
her not to use it until they offered repair; as Ms C wasnt offered any alternative 
transport (or transport costs) even though she needed a car to be able to work.

My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Ms Cs. Advantage Finance Ltd should follow my 
directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman