DRN-3901474
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage he has with National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest). He is unhappy that due to the amount of time it took to arrange a 
second appointment in 2022, the interest rate product hed wanted was no longer available. 
Hes said that due to the amount of time it takes to arrange an interview with a mortgage 
adviser, he either had to accept the options available then and there, or risk the interest 
rates available increasing during the interval, which he doesnt think is reasonable or fair.
What happened
Mr H had an existing BTL mortgage with NatWest, which had around three years left on the 
term, and an interest rate product with less than a year on its term. He wanted to look at 
changing his interest rate product early. As such, he contacted NatWest in April 2022 to 
discuss his options for what he could do with the mortgage. 
On 17 May 2022 Mr H spoke to NatWests mortgage adviser. Options for what he could do 
with his mortgage were discussed  changing part of it to repayment, changing the interest 
rate product and extending the overall term. Mr H said he would consider what had been 
discussed and look at what options were available elsewhere. He also confirmed that he 
would contact NatWest again if he wanted to proceed with any of the options available with 
it. He contacted NatWest again on 21 May 2022, at which time he was told he needed to 
speak to a mortgage adviser and that the first appointment available was 18 June 2022. 
At the next appointment it was agreed that Mr H would apply for a term extension and a 
five-year interest rate product. However, by this time the interest rate available for a five-year 
product was higher than it had been at the time of the previous meeting. 
Mr H complained to NatWest and it responded in its letters of 26 May 2022 and 21 June 
2022. It set out what had happened and said it was satisfied that it had followed its normal 
processes. In addition, it explained that while it was trying to reduce the amount of time 
customers had to wait to speak to a mortgage adviser, it would not expect to be able to offer 
an immediate appointment. NatWest went on to confirm that a particular interest rate could 
be locked in if an application was made, but no assurances would be made to a customer 
who hadnt applied that any particular rate would be available in the future. It apologised that 
the waiting time for a second appointment was longer than Mr H had expected and 
explained that it had been a particularly busy period.
Mr H wasnt happy and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our investigators consider the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. She was 
not persuaded that NatWest did anything wrong. This was because at the end of the first 
meeting Mr H had made it clear that he needed time to think about the options. It was 
unfortunate that NatWest was particularly busy at the point that Mr H made his decision, and 
so there was a delay before the next meeting could take place, but that didnt mean that 
NatWest had done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that the main focus of his 
complaint was the lack of information given by NatWest  at no point did NatWest inform him 
of the implications of not making an immediate decision within the conversations he had with 
it on 25 April, 17 May or 18 June 2022. He said that NatWest effectively put him in the 
position where he either had to make an immediate decision or the conversations became 
irrelevant and out of date. Mr H put forward that it was not right that in his conversation of 
18 June 2022 his application was effectively treated as a new enquiry and had to wait in the 
same way as a new customer would.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint would be referred to an 
ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As with any other type of purchase, it is not until a customer has committed to purchase an 
interest rate product that it becomes guaranteed that he can have it. At the end of the first 
interview with the mortgage adviser Mr H hadnt made any decisions about what he wanted 
to do with his mortgage or even if he wanted to keep it with NatWest. He was going to look 
further into his options and, if he decided he wanted to remain with NatWest, he would 
contact it again. I am satisfied that Mr H hadnt made any sort of commitment to purchasing 
the interest rate product that had been discussed and so I dont consider that NatWest was 
in any way obliged to provide him with that product.
It is correct that NatWest didnt highlight to Mr H that the product that had been discussed as 
a possibility for him might not be available if he didnt take it at that point. However, equally 
he wasnt promised that it would be. Indeed, the mortgage adviser wouldnt have been able 
to tell Mr H when that interest rate product would be withdrawn, or if it was, if it would be 
replaced with another similar product and if so, what interest rate that product would offer. 
That information is not something the adviser would have been aware of. 
At this point I would like to explain to Mr H that it is not our role to tell a lender how to run its 
business or what procedures to have in place. That is a regulatory matter and so I cant find 
that NatWest was wrong to require Mr H to speak to a mortgage adviser in order to make the 
alterations to his mortgage he wanted. That said, it is not unusual within the mortgage 
industry for the type of changes Mr H wanted to make, including leaving an existing interest 
rate product and incurring an ERC, needing to be done by a mortgage adviser. 
It is unfortunate that the next appointment for a mortgage adviser was around four weeks 
after Mr H decided what he wanted to do. However, the then recent interest rate rises from 
the Bank of England had caused an increase in demand for appointments throughout the 
industry, which isnt something NatWest could have controlled. While I understand that Mr H 
thinks it was unfair that he had to have another appointment with the mortgage adviser, and 
couldnt jump the queue because hed already had one, I dont agree. 
In the circumstance for Mr H to jump the queue, as all of the appointments were booked, 
NatWest would have had to cancel another customers appointment, likely someone who 
had already waited for potentially several weeks for that appointment. A bank is required to 
treat all of its customers fairly, and to have done what Mr H would have liked to have been 
done, it would have been treating him preferentially and other customers less favourably. 
While I have sympathy for the situation Mr H found himself in, I dont consider that NatWest 
did anything wrong in relation to this matter.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
31 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman