DRN-1488895
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about AWP P&C SA and its decision to decline their claim 
under a travel insurance policy. They want the claim accepted.
Background
Mr and Mrs M had annual travel insurance with AWP. 
They were due to go on holiday with Mr W, a friend for whom they said they were 
cared, but not as professionals. Mr Ws wife fell ill three days before they were due to 
depart and died. Mr and Mrs M chose not to travel as Mrs W had also been a friend 
and felt Mr W needed their support.
Mr and Mrs Ms claim for cancellation was declined by AWP as it said the policy 
didnt cover such claims.
Mr and Mrs M complained to AWP about its decision.
AWP said that the policy only covered cancellation of trips due to the injury, serious 
illness or death of those insured or those with whom they were travelling or intended 
to stay with, or a immediate relative or business associate. It said that as Mr Ws wife 
wasnt going on the trip and wasnt either an immediate relative or business 
associate of Mr and Mrs M, the claim couldnt be accepted.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and brought their complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr and Mrs M dont agree.
 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the policy itself. Not all possible risks are covered and its fair 
and reasonable for an insurer to set out what is and isnt included in the policy. The 
policy says the cancellation cover applied to injury, serious illness, death of you, any 
person with whom you are intending to travel or stay, or of an immediate relative or 
close business associate of yours. Only Mr and Mrs M were insured under the 
policy, not Mr W. The definition of immediate relative is set out in the policy and 
covers the closest possible relations, such as mother, child, and sister; Mrs W 
doesnt meet the definition. The restriction of cancellation cover isnt uncommon and 
was set out clearly.
While as a matter of law the policy doesnt cover the claim, I thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable. I understand that Mrs W was a friend of Mr and Mrs M 
and that they cared for Mr W. But I dont think the evidence shows that the 
relationship between Mrs W and Mr and Mrs M was the same as the relationship between immediate relatives or close business associates. In all the circumstances, I 
think that AWP acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. 
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AWP P&C SA. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject 
my decision before 10 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman