DRN-3003781
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing 
the limit on her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty and that the fees charged were 
unfair.  
What happened
 One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should have 
stopped charging overdraft fees from May 2014 as by this point it was clear Miss E was in 
financial difficulty. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view. It said that it would refund all interest, fees and 
charges applied to the account from May 2014. Lloyds has advised that Miss Es account 
was closed with a debt on 17 March 2015. The refund due is not enough to repay the debt 
so no interest is repayable. Miss E disagreed, she wants all charges refunded from 
September 2013 and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss E is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this 
case May 2014. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per 
year.
Lloyds has told us that Miss E is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have 
been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by her 
overdraft from May 2014. So while Miss E has been left with a balance and she might be 
unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss E says Lloyds should do something different here. She says the charges should be 
refunded from September 2013 as it should have had reason to believe by this point she 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive thought about what Miss E has said. And what shes said is a reason for refunding all 
charges from September 2013  rather than May 2014. But the review and renew date of her 
overdraft was set for May 2014. So it wouldnt have been apparent she was in financial 
difficulty in September 2013 unless Miss E had contacted Lloyds directly about this. But by 
May 2014 (the renewal and review date) it was evident she was in financial difficulty  her 
statements showed returned direct debits and that she was making monthly payments to a 
debt collection agency. And this is the reason why I think it is fair Lloyds refund all charges 
from this date. 
All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what she now needs to pay. So what Miss E is left with to repay are the funds which she 
used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her 
with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed this is supported by Miss 
Es statements at the time which show transactions to parties other than existing creditors. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Miss E spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Miss E to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss Es 
unhappiness at having a debt to repay, even after her complaint has been upheld, is in itself 
a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss E is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss E to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Lloyds offer. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss E is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman