DRN-4213590
The complaint
X complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed their credit card, withheld their 
annual fee and failed to credit their points or free night stay hotel voucher. 
What happened
X had a premium reward club credit card account with Creation which included an annual 
fee. The card gave X the ability to earn reward points which could be redeemed for hotel 
stays or experiences. And the opportunity to earn a free night stay at a hotel by spending a 
minimum of 10,000 points a year. 
On 26 October 2021 X noticed their card was recorded as suspended within the Creation 
app. On 27 October 2021 Creation sent X a letter informing them that their account had 
been closed with immediate effect. 
Creation also advised X that they wouldnt be crediting them the points they'd accrued during 
the last statement period, awarding them the free night voucher or refunding the annual fee. 
X complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold their complaint. They thought theyd 
acted fairly in closing their account without notice  and not crediting the points, the free 
night voucher or refunding the annual fee.
X wasnt satisfied with Creations response so complained to our service. They argued that 
Creation had acted unfairly in not giving them 60 days notice and queried whether they 
deliberately did so to avoid awarding them the free night voucher. 
One of our investigators looked into Xs complaint. 
Our investigator thought Creation acted fairly in closing Xs account without notice, and 
failing to award them the points from the last statement period and the free night voucher. 
However, they thought Creation should have refunded X's annual fee on a pro-rata basis. 
Creation didnt respond. X didnt accept our investigators recommendation, in summary they 
said:
How can they defend themselves  when they haven't been provided details of to 
what they've done wrong?
They were  using a service which allowed debit card payments to be made via a 
credit card called which Ill call C. They were sending funds from Creation via C to 
another  business Ill call N, and then paying the funds back from N to Creation. 
They argue this isnt illegal or against the terms and conditions of the account.
They believe Creation closed their account to get out of their contractual 
obligations.
As X  didnt accept our view its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure and withholding of points
X responded to the view by arguing that they've been  unable to defend themselves  as they 
hasnt been provided with all the information supplied by Creation. And as a result they'd like 
our service to wait before issuing a decision. Ive thought about Xs request but Im satisfied 
they've had the opportunity to provide any information they think is relevant to support their 
complaint against Creation. 
Im aware that X  is considering contacting the Information Commissioners Office to see if 
they can obtain more information about Creations reasons for closing their account, failing 
to credit the points and the free night voucher  and questioning whether our service should 
be obliged to provide this to them. However, as Im satisfied X has been provided with fair 
opportunity to supply evidence in support of their complaint Ive proceeded to consider my 
decision. 
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confide nce. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reason s  for example, if it contains security informatio n, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Creation has provided is 
information th at we considered should be kept confidential. 
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Xs 
account. The terms explain that the bank can close an account without notice in certain 
specific circumstances. I appreciate that X responded to our investigators view by 
explaining how they were using the card, and they believe this wasnt Illegal or against the 
terms and conditions of the account. I understand this will disappoint X, however, having 
considered the full circumstances of this complaint I agree Creation were entitled to close 
their account without giving notice. 
Ive moved on to consider whether Creation acted fairly in failing to credit X with a free night 
voucher or the points for the last statement period. I agree they met the spend requirements 
for the free night voucher, however it doesnt necessarily follow that Creations actions were 
unfair. Having reviewed the reasons provided by Creation for deciding not to provide the 
voucher and the points for the last statement period Im satisfied they acted fairly.
Annual pro-rata fee refund
Ive thought about whether Creation should refund X for the unused period of their annual 
fee. And, as our investigator concluded I think they should. I dont think its fair for Creation 
to charge X for a service they didnt receive. Namely use of the credit card. I therefore think 
Creation should refund X on a pro-rata basis for the unused period of the annual fee. Putting things right
I direct Creation to provide X a pro-rata refund of their annual fee.  
My final decision
My final decision is I partially uphold Xs complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Refund X the unused part of their credit card annual fee
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman