DRN-3450826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about the service they received from AXA PPP Healthcare Limited, 
when making a claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs V hold a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA PPP. They were 
unhappy with the service they received when attempting to make claims against the policy, 
and so they complained. 
Mr and Mrs V said AXA PPP declined to provide cover for a particular type of scan Mrs V 
needed. They said the insurer didnt tell them they could have provided additional 
information to support the necessity of the scan, and still declined cover after more evidence 
was provided. They also complained AXA PPP handled their calls badly. And said there 
were delays when AXA PPP made referrals to its clinical team.  
In response to the complaint, AXA PPP said it thought it had been correct to decline cover 
for the scan. It said it didnt think any unnecessary delays had been caused when making 
referrals to its clinical team. It agreed it hadnt offered the right level of service during some 
of the calls, and offered £100 in compensation for this. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Mr and Mrs V brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened but didnt uphold the complaint. They said 
they thought AXA PPP had already done enough to put things right.
AXA PPP made no comments on the investigators view. However Mr and Mrs V disagreed. 
They said they still disagreed the scan wasnt covered under the policy, and they thought the 
compensation the business had paid for its errors wasnt enough.
Mr and Mrs V asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should clarify that Mr and Mrs V made more than one complaint to AXA PPP. The 
focus of my review has been on the issues raised in the complaint AXA PPP responded to in 
March 2021 and the refusal of cover for the scan, as AXA PPP has consented to our service 
looking into that aspect of Mr and Mrs Vs earlier complaints. Ive not considered the other 
earlier complaint issues, and this is because, as our investigator explained, these complaints 
were not brought to us within six months of AXA PPPs final responses.
In addition to this, if I havent commented on a particular point Mr and Mrs V have raised in 
my decision, this doesnt mean I havent considered it. Im not required to comment on each 
and every point, but instead Im concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No 
discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman 
service and my role in it.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. And it should provide reasonable guidance to help 
make a claim with appropriate information on progress. Having considered these rules 
together with the circumstances of this case, I think AXA PPP has already done enough to 
put things right. And Ill explain why. 
Cover for the scan 
Mrs V originally asked AXA PPP to authorise a type of scan in July 2019, and provided a 
letter from her consultant. AXA PPP declined to cover the cost of the scan, as it said it 
thought it related to genetic or screening tests and preventative treatment, which werent 
covered under the policy.
The consultants letter referred to the need to check Mrs Vs bone health and profile, and her 
vitamin D levels. And he also referred to several conditions which he had already diagnosed 
as causing her symptoms at that time. So based on that information, I think its reasonable 
AXA PPP deemed this scan to be for the purpose of screening or preventative treatment. 
The policy has a specific exclusion for cover relating to preventative treatment and screening 
tests, and Im satisfied it was fair for AXA PPP to apply it in this case. 
Mr and Mrs V have said AXA PPP didnt tell them they could provide more evidence to 
support the need for the scan. Ive considered this, but I dont think this is something AXA 
PPP reasonably needed to do in the circumstances.  Mr and Mrs V provided a letter from 
Mrs Vs consultant, and thats the type of information Id expect an insurer to rely on when 
making a decision on cover. If AXA PPP had found the letter ambiguous in any way, then I 
would expect it to have requested more detail from the consultant. However as Ive said 
above, I think the decision AXA PPP made was fair based on the letter from the consultant 
at the time. So I dont think it was necessary for AXA PPP to request any further information 
or to advise Mr and Mrs V that they could provide additional evidence if they wished. 
More recently in March 2021, Mr and Mrs V provided a further letter from the consultant. 
This specified that the purpose of the scan was to rule out a diagnosis of osteoporosis. AXA 
PPP said it reviewed this letter, but as a considerable amount of time had passed, and the 
content of the letter differed greatly from the first consultant letter provided - which said the 
scan was to check Mrs Vs bone health and profile - it maintained its decision to decline 
cover for the scan. Having reviewed the content of both letters and considered AXA PPPs 
reasoning, I dont think its decision was unfair or unreasonable. I say this because the 
original letter written at the time the referral was first made, didnt make reference to 
suspected osteoporosis, despite noting other diagnoses, and it referred to checking Mrs Vs 
bone health. 
Delays 
Mr and Mrs V have said they experienced delays each time they made a request to AXA 
PPP, as it had to make referrals to its clinical team. Ive reviewed the referrals and 
timescales relevant to the complaint points Im considering. And Ive found that on each 
occasion, a response or decision was provided within a couple of days. Whilst I can 
appreciate it can be frustrating to wait for an answer, I dont think it unreasonable that AXA 
PPP would want to refer to its medical experts in the circumstances of confirming cover or 
authorisation for treatment, and I dont think the time taken was excessive or unreasonable 
in these particular circumstances. Call handling 
Ive reviewed the calls relating to the referral to a pain consultant and later regarding vitamin 
D tests. And Im in agreement with AXA PPPs assessment that some of these calls could 
have been better handled. There was some confusion and delay which arose from the notes 
AXA PPP had made on its system about the earlier calls in relation to the pain consultant. 
And one of the advisers dealt with a call in an unprofessional manner, and terminated the 
call when it didnt seem reasonable or warranted to do so. AXA PPP accepted these service 
failings and paid £100 in compensation in a combination of cash and a gift voucher.  
I think £100 is sufficient in these circumstances when I consider the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. I appreciate Mrs V was in pain, and several calls were made, so this 
would have been frustrating.  But the issue was rectified within a few days. And following the 
terminated call, Mr and Mrs V called back the next day and spoke with a different member of 
staff, and the call was handled appropriately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Im aware that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has already paid £100 in compensation. And I 
conclude that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited doesnt need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman