DRN-2728909
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a van he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr O acquired a used vehicle through a hire purchase agreement. In December 
2019 Mr O heard a rattling noise from the engine, before it lost power and stopped working. 
Mr O complained about the quality of the vehicle to MotoNovo, and they arranged for an 
inspection of the vehicle. 
Motonovo sent Mr O their final response to his complaint in January 2020. They said the 
problem with the vehicle was due to a lack of regular maintenance or servicing, or it had 
been driven with depleted oil which led to the failure of the engine. They thought the vehicle 
was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr O, and so they werent 
responsible for the cost of repairs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr O bought his complaint to this service. He says that some of the 
details in the report are incorrect, he would like the van repaired, or he would like to reject it. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O. They didnt think the vehicle was of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Mr O, and so thought that he should be able to reject it. 
MotoNovo disagreed. They say the van required additional maintenance outside of its usual 
service schedule because it was subject to a higher than average mileage. They also say 
the vehicle underwent an MOT prior to Mr O acquiring it, which didnt identify any oil leaks. 
They didnt think the investigator had enough evidence to overturn the findings of the 
engineer that inspected the vehicle. 
Our investigator reviewed MotoNovos comments, but their view remained unchanged. They 
felt that Mr O had maintained the van sufficiently. 
MotoNovo responded to say that Mr Os information about servicing the vehicle was 
contradictory, and the service evidence is not a receipt, but a hand-written note, which they 
dont feel is sufficient. 
Mr O told us that his van was clamped and impounded, and the situation has been extremely 
distressing for him as hes in financial difficulty. 
Another ombudsman issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021, where 
they made the following provisional findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ordinarily the Hire Purchase agreement between Mr O and MotoNovo would contain implied
terms that the goods supplied would be of satisfactory quality. Ive noted that MotoNovo has
said the implied terms as to quality are excluded from this agreement because it thinks Mr O
didnt enter into the contract as a consumer but rather for business purposes.
Having reviewed the details of this complaint, I dont consider it necessary to make a finding
on this as even if Mr O did enter the contract as a consumer, I dont think that the van was of
unsatisfactory quality in any event.
MotoNovo supplied Mr O with a van that was five years old and had travelled 116,500 miles
when it was supplied. And the price of the van was lower than it wouldve been if it had been
supplied new. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of
the van might have already suffered notable wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this
van might need repair or maintenance sooner than a van which wasnt as road-worn when it
was supplied.
Based on what Mr O has said about whats wrong with the van and because the
independent report says that the engine block has a hole and engine oil was falling from the
van, it seems that there is a fault. But just because something has gone wrong doesnt
always mean the goods are not of satisfactory quality at the point they were supplied. Ive
considered whether the fault identified with the van means it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The independent report says the issues were likely caused by a lack of maintenance or
servicing in the past. The report concludes that these issues were not likely to be present at
the point of sale.
Ive noted that Mr O disputed some elements of the report and says that he had
serviced the van on 15 November 2019. And therefore, the issues are not as a result of poor
servicing. The engineer reviewed the additional information and say that although the van 
may have been serviced recently, they would expect the engine oil to be maintained and 
other items in between. The engineer maintained their original view and said that the fault 
would not have been developing at the point of sale.
I think what the independent report is saying here is that although the actual fault with the
van (i.e. the hole in the engine) wasnt present at the point of supply, its likely it has been
caused over time by the van being driven on low or old oil. I accept this may not have not
been while Mr O had the van and I recognise the van looks to have been serviced twice
within a six-month period. But its possible the van wasnt maintained as it should have been
before it was supplied to him. Unfortunately, this is one of the risks of hiring/purchasing older
used vans with high mileage, as is the case here.
Mr O was able to drive the van for around 9,000 miles before anything went wrong.
Furthermore, I can see that the MOT had passed and there were no issues reported at that
point. Had an oil leak been developing at that point in time I think its likely it would have
been picked up by the MOT. So, I think its unlikely the engine was faulty when the van was
supplied to him.
I understand that MotoNovo doesnt think that the service receipt should be taken into
consideration because it is a hand-written note. However, whether the service had been
conducted or not, I would still be persuaded that the van was of satisfactory quality at the
time it was supplied. As the van had travelled a high mileage, the issues would be down to
wear and tear.
Ive received information from Mr O in regard to the current position of the van. It appears
that the van has been clamped and Mr O has incurred a fee of £260. Mr O has also advised
that the van has been impounded which has been causing him a lot of distress. Im sorry to
hear this. I also understand that Mr O has been facing financial difficulties, I hope thesituation does improve. As Ive concluded that the issues with the van are a result of wear
and tear rather than a fault at the time it was supplied to Mr O, Im unable to consider any
cost that Mr O may have incurred.
I appreciate that this may not be what Mr O wants to hear, but I dont find he was supplied
with a van that was not of satisfactory quality. In regard to the financial difficulties that Mr O
is currently facing, he may wish to contact an independent organisation like Step Change for
free financial advice. MotoNovo should also ensure it treats his financial difficulties with
forbearance and due consideration as per its obligations under CONC 7.3.4.
MotoNovo responded to the provisional decision to accept it. 
Mr O responded to the provisional decision to say he didnt think the MOT completed prior to 
him acquiring the vehicle was up to standard. He doesnt agree that the fault is a result of 
wear and tear, or lack of upkeep. 
The ombudsman that issued the provisional decision has now left the service, so the case 
has been passed to me for a decision. I wrote to both parties in June 2021 to set out that I 
had reviewed the complaint afresh and was currently minded to agree with the provisional 
decision issued by the pervious ombudsman. I gave both parties further time to provide any 
additional comments or evidence they wanted me to consider. 
Neither party has responded with any additional information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MotoNovo as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the van was acquired used with a cash price of around £7,000. It was five years old 
and had travelled around 116,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a 
used van like Mr Os, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that 
of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand vehicle. The price for the vehicle is lower, 
and this is reflective of the fact that the van is more road worn. The chance of encountering a 
serious issue sooner, is higher. 
The engineer that inspected Mr Os vehicle concluded that the fault was as a result of wear 
and tear, and likely due to the vehicle being driven with no or old oil for a period of time. I 
appreciate that Mr O had serviced the vehicle shortly before the fault occurred. But this doesnt mean that the oil wasnt low prior to this service, or that the van hadnt been driven in 
this manner prior to it being supplied to Mr O. Unfortunately, this is one of the risks of 
hiring/purchasing older used vans with high mileage, as is the case here.
Mr O drove the van for around 9,000 miles prior to the fault occurring. In addition, the vehicle 
underwent an MOT prior to Mr O acquiring it, which didnt identify an oil leak. Mr O says he 
doesnt think this MOT was up to standard. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me 
that this MOT wasnt completed as it shouldve been. I think if there had been an oil leak 
developing prior to this, the MOT wouldve identified this
I think, that at five years old and having covered around 125,000 miles, Mr Os vehicle was 
around the age when a reasonable person might start to expect that some relatively serious 
repairs may be needed. As a result, I find there was no durability issue with the car when it 
was supplied.  Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, it is the risk of owning an older and 
higher mileage second-hand van like this one. I appreciate that having a van that suffers 
engine failure is stressful, and may be an expensive, experience for Mr O. That doesnt 
mean that MotoNovo are responsible for the cost of repairs. 
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Mr Os van was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Therefore, although Mr O has 
experienced a fault with his van, MotoNovo are not responsible for the cost repairing the 
fault. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman