DRN-3265598
The complaint
Ms M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC  trading as Tesco Bank should have 
given her the money from her maturing fixed rate saver account quicker than they did. 
What happened
Tesco paid Ms M her money using a system called BACs. That meant she received the 
money from her saving account three days after its maturity date. Ms M feels this is unfair, 
and she should have received the money on the maturity date. 
In response to the complaint, Tesco said theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. These dont specify how payments will be made when the account matures, or 
how long itll take for the money to pass to the customer. Tesco say they made a business 
choice to use BACs over other payment methods, mainly because they consider it a more 
secure payment method. 
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator found Tescos response to the complaint 
had reasonably justified their approach. So she said they didnt need to do any more to 
resolve this complaint. 
Ms M asked for that view to be looked at again. So the case has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Ms M would like me to tell Tesco to change the way they run their saving 
account, Ive decided thats not justified in this case. In my view, theyve provided a 
reasonable level of service to Ms M. Ill explain why I think that. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the terms for this account. Tesco didnt set any particular expectation 
about how quickly theyd transfer money out of the account when it reached maturity. So this 
isnt a case where theyve failed to live up to the agreed terms for the account. 
Ms M feels Tesco should be made to say how long itll take to transfer the money when an 
account is closed. But there arent any specific rules or regulations that say they need to. 
And Im not going to create a new rule for them now, based only on Ms Ms complaint. 
For my review, its enough that Tesco handled the closing of Ms Ms account in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
The payment method Tesco chose ensured the money went where it was meant to in three 
working days. While other businesses might choose to make such a payment by another 
method, that doesnt create a need for Tesco to run their business the same way. BACs is a 
reasonable choice of payment method, as its widely accepted and can be relied on to get 
the money where its meant to be. 
I find it reasonable for Tescos choice of payment method to be driven by their assessment 
of the security of the process. That ensures their customers  and their business  are less 
likely to suffer the significant detriments that go with frauds and errors involving savings. 
I appreciate Ms Ms point, that the BACs process could be started sooner to ensure the 
customer receives the money on the maturity date. But that wouldnt quite fit with the terms 
shed agreed for the account. These say the customers money must remain in the account 
until the maturity date. Starting a BACs transfer three days before wouldnt do that. 
I note Ms Ms spoken about wanting the money on the maturity date so she could invest it 
elsewhere. But I understand she was able to reinvest in the product shed planned  just a 
few days later than she wanted to. So theres limited impact to her in this case, and no 
circumstances that I feel created a need for Tesco to act beyond the accounts terms. 
Ms M is of course free to choose whether shes happy with the products Tesco provide, and 
invest her money accordingly. But I cant see anything here that prompts me to tell Tesco 
they should change the way they run their business for the rest of their customers. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman