DRN-2902786
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Erudio Student Loans Limited have managed his loan account.  
What happened
Mr W has two student loans, both of which were taken over 25 years ago, and both of which
are now managed by Erudio. Unfortunately, Mr W hasnt been able to work for several years
due to a medical condition. Mr W is supported by his wife and has been deferring his student
loan repayments each year following the development of his medical condition.
Mr Ws most recent deferral was due to expire on 24 July 2019, so on 16 July 2019 Mr W
completed a new deferral application form and sent it to Erudio for consideration.
Erudio rejected this application as Mr W didnt provide bank statements to show that his wife
is supporting him. Erudio then sent correspondence to Mr W explaining why his deferment
application had been rejected and that arrears were presently building up on his account.
On 24 November 2019, having not received the bank statements that they had requested
from Mr W, and with the loan account now four months in arrears, Erudio terminated Mr Ws
account and sent a demand to Mr W for full repayment of the outstanding balance. Mr W
wasnt happy about this, especially as he provided the requested bank statements shortly
after the four month deadline. So, he raised a complaint.
Erudio looked at Mr Ws complaint. But they felt that they had followed the correct process
and that theyd been clear in their correspondence with Mr W what would happen if the
account wasnt successfully deferred and continued to remain in arrears. So, they didnt
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Erudios response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Erudio hadnt given due
consideration to Mr Ws circumstances, and they felt it should have been apparent to Erudio
that these hadnt significantly changed. Our investigator also felt that Erudios receipt of the
requested bank statements shortly after the four month deadline had passed had presented
them with a clear opportunity to fairly rectify the situation, which they hadnt taken.
So, our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ws favour and that
Erudio should restore Mr Ws loan to a deferred condition and pay £100 to Mr W to
compensate him for the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Eruido didnt agree with the recommendation made by our investigator, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 June 2021 as follows:
Its clear that Mr Ws personal circumstances havent changed for several
years such that I can only conclude that a fair and reasonable outcome here is for Mr 
Ws loan account to be restored to a deferred position by Erudio, and I will be 
upholding this complaint on that basis.
However, given that Mr W didnt supply the full suite of documents required by 
Erudio, its difficult to fault Erudio for declining Mr Ws initial application in this 
instance. Furthermore, having sent several letters to Mr W requesting the missing 
information so as to enable the deferment of Mr Ws account, and that information 
not being subsequently supplied by Mr W in a timely manner, its also difficult to fault 
Erudio for terminating Mr Ws account such as they did.
Because of this I dont feel that it would be reasonable to ask Erudio to pay 
compensation to Mr W for the inconvenience hes incurred, and this is because that 
inconvenience could have been avoided if Mr W had provided the necessary 
information to Erudio in a timely manner.
But Mr W did ultimately supply the information that Erudio required to enable them to
process the deferment of his loan. And while this information was received by Erudio 
after the deadline that Erudio had given, the receipt of the information did allow 
Erudio to confirm what I can only be conclude had always been the likely position of 
Mr Ws personal position  which was that it hadnt changed from the previous year 
such that a deferment of Mr Ws account on the same medical basis as the previous 
year was the obviously appropriate recourse.
As such, I do feel that Erudio missed an excellent opportunity to resolve this situation 
fairly and reasonably without the need for this complaint to have continued on to this 
position.
All of which means that my provisional decision will be that I uphold this complaint 
and that Erudio must restore Mr Ws loan account to a deferred position such that the 
deferral took place from the end of the previous deferment period. However, I will not 
be provisionally instructing Erudio to make any payment of compensation to Mr W, 
for the reasons explained above.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr W and Erudio the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information that they wished me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Mr W confirmed that he was happy to accept my provisional decision. However, 
Erudio did provide a further submission - arguing against my provisional decision - for me to 
review.
In their submission, Erudio reiterate that they cant be held responsible for Mr W incorrectly 
completing the deferment application and they maintain that they held Mr Ws account for 
several months with the account in arrears before defaulting the account and maintain that 
the process that they undertook in this regard was followed correctly.
I agree with Erudios points here, and it was for this reason that I issued a provisional 
decision removing the requirement  as recommended by our investigator  that Erudio 
should pay compensation to Mr W. And I removed that requirement because I didnt 
consider it fair that Erudio should be asked to pay compensation to Mr W when they had 
followed correct processes.However, it can be the case that correct processes can be followed and an unfair outcome 
can still arise as a result. And thats what I feel has happened in this instance.
Ultimately, Mr Ws medical position has been such that he has had to defer the repayment of 
his loan for several years, and it seems apparent to me that Mr Ws medical position hasnt 
changed such that the deferment of his loan shouldnt continue.
Because of this, it doesnt feel fair to me that Mr Ws loan deferment shouldnt have taken 
place in this instance. And while I understand that Mr W didnt supply the full suite of 
documents necessary for his deferment to have been processed, its apparent to me that this 
was an oversight on Mr Ws behalf and I dont feel that it affects the fundamental fact here -
which is that Mr Ws medical position remains such that a deferment of his loan repayment is 
clearly a fair outcome. And I also feel that this should have been similarly apparent to Erudio.
So, while I appreciate that this might not be the outcome that Erudio were wanting here, it 
follows from the above that my final decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr Ws 
favour, on the basis outlined previously in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Erudio must restore Mr Ws loan account to a deferred position such that the deferral took 
place from the end of the previous deferment period.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Erudio Student Loans Limited on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman