DRN-2397329
The complaint
Mr T has complained about pension policies he holds with ReAssure Limited. The crux of the 
complaint is that for many years hes received statements annually for two different plans 
(6732 and 0035) with no explanation that the second plan (0035) would be swallowed up by 
the original plan (6732) when he claimed his retirement pension.
Legal and General held the policies originally but ReAssure is now responsible for the 
complaint and Ill refer to ReAssure throughout.
What happened
Mr T held benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) with a former employer. The 
OPS included a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). The OPS was transferred to 
ReAssure in 1988.
In 2000 ReAssure reviewed the OPS transfer in accordance with the industry-wide pensions 
review. It wrote to Mr T and told him that he was entitled to compensation. He accepted an 
offer and a second policy was created to receive the compensation money. This is policy 
0035. A new policy was created because the terms of the original policy (6732) didnt allow 
for any additional contributions.
Mr T retired in 2019. Hes been told that he will receive the GMP only as there are 
insufficient funds to pay more. The GMP will be paid by combining both polices, he hasnt 
been allowed to claim policy 0035 which was worth almost £3,000. 
Mr T was unhappy and complained. ReAssure explained that the two policies arose from the 
original OPS. It apologised for any misunderstanding and offered £100 for any distress 
caused.
The complaint was referred to this service. It was considered by an investigator, but she 
didnt think that ReAssure had done anything wrong, and so it wasnt upheld.
In summary, she said:
The illustration from 1988 confirmed the buy-out plan (6732) would at least provide a 
GMP of £6183.84 per year. 
Then in 2000 the sale was reviewed. The outcome letter dated 21 September 2000 
confirmed that any compensation will be applied in respect of your Section 32 Buy 
Out Policy and, To avoid any doubt we should stress that the increase referred to 
will be made directly to your plan and will not be available to you as a cash payment
Due to the nature of Section 32 buy-out plans with GMPs attached, funds cant be 
added to top up the existing plan. This was why a new plan (0035) was set up.
A letter from December 2000 confirmed the set-up of plan 0035. It stated, the 
original policy ..6732 and the new policy numbered ..0035 comprise a single plan 
and the benefits from both policies are to be taken at the same time.
Therefore, the investigator was satisfied that it was clear that the compensation paid formed 
part of the original plan (6732) and wasnt intended to provide a cash payment.
The investigator also considered whether Mr T had been misled. On this issue she said, in 
summary:
It was reasonably clear that the two policies were linked.
Although there were two plan numbers, it had been made clear that benefits had to 
be taken at the same time.
There was a letter from 2011 which restated that these were single premium policies 
and explained why the second policy had been set up.
Illustrations provided were clear that both plans related to the same period of service 
and that benefits had to be paid at the same time.
The illustrations from 2011 projected, at the highest value, an annual pension of 
£6,180 for 6732 and £248 for 0035. A combined value of £6,428. So even at the 
highest projected value, projections which havent been achieved, the two pensions 
combined would only just have been more than the GMP of £6,183.24.
Given the funds havent performed as well as was expected, the investigator didnt think Mr 
T had been misled or lost out as a result. She felt the offer of £100 was fair.
Mr T didnt agree. In summary, he said that he had received statements year after year 
which promised to pay an amount for 0035 on maturity. He has been grossly misled, and 
asks where did the money form 0035 go?
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, I dont uphold this complaint. There is 
very little that I can usefully add to what shes said. I do appreciate Mr Ts unhappiness with 
the whole situation, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint. Ill 
try and explain why.
Are there two plans?
Mr Ts OPS benefits were transferred to ReAssure in 1988. A buy-out plan was set up, policy 
6732. This was set up with a single payment. The terms of the plan didnt allow any 
additional contribution. This plan included a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) of just over 
£6,000. So, whatever happened in terms of future investment growth, ReAssure had to pay 
the GMP even if the actual fund value wouldnt support that payment when he reached 
retirement age.
The pension transfer was reviewed in 2000 as part of the industry-wide pensions review. 
This led to Mr T accepting an offer of compensation of just over £1,000. This sum was used 
to set up the second plan, 0035.
Im satisfied that it was always the intention that policy 0035 was part and parcel of 6732. It 
supplemented 6732. Mr T effectively had one plan which would at least provide him with the 
GMP. I think this is reasonably clear from the correspondence when its read as a whole and 
especially the letter of December 2000. This confirmed the set-up of plan 0035 and said 6732 and 0035 comprise a single plan and the benefits from both policies are to be taken 
at the same time.
I think everything that follows must take the clear statements in that letter into account. Any 
later annual statements must be interpreted on the basis that although there were two plan 
numbers, effectively, there was a single plan.
I think its also important to give some context. In 2000 when the pension review 
compensation was assessed, the calculations that were made were based on future 
investment performance that would have seen plans 6732 and 0035 achieve higher growth 
than either has actually achieved. ReAssure was only required to carry out the review once, 
based on assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time. The fact that these 
assumptions may not have been achieved is not grounds to tell it to redo the calculation. 
But, unfortunately, that can be a significant cause of further loss which is almost certainly the 
case for Mr T.
In 2000, when the compensation was paid, its likely that the realistic expectation would have 
been that the final value of 6732 and 0035 would have easily outstripped the GMP. The 
GMP was always only a guaranteed minimum pension.
Was Mr T misled?
Overall, Im not satisfied that Mr T was misled. I agree with the investigator on this issue. I 
appreciate he is a lay person with no expertise in pensions, but I think its reasonably clear 
that 6732 and 0035 were effectively a single plan. When combined as a single plan the 
policies were intended to provide the benefits due to Mr T from the original OPS which he 
had accrued during that period of his employment. There was originally only a single OPS. 
Every piece of correspondence Mr T has received about these plans must be read together 
and as a whole, and no single piece of correspondence should be read in isolation. And I 
refer again to the letter from December 2000 which confirmed a single plan.
Mr T asks where the money from 0035 has gone? The answer is that these funds have been 
combined with the funds from 6732 to pay his retirement benefits. As the combined funds 
were less than needed to pay the GMP, ReAssure will have made up the shortfall so the 
GMP can be paid.
If these plans had performed better, as was no doubt anticipated in 2000, Mr T would 
probably now be seeing a clear and separate benefit from policy 0035. But unfortunately, 
that isnt the case.
Im sorry that Mr T has lost out. As Ive said, with the benefit of hindsight, its now apparent 
that the pension review often didnt fully compensate for the losses that would be suffered in 
the long term. That is due to many factors and isnt something that can be put right here. It 
was a one-off exercise.
I dont uphold this complaint. I think Reassure could have been clearer in some of its 
communication, but as Ive said, all the correspondence needs to be read together and as a 
whole. I think its offer is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limiteds offer is fair  and I make no further award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman