DRN-3794416
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Sainsbury's Bank plc wont refund to her the money that she paid for 
some replacement windows. 
What happened
Mrs H entered into a contract in 2020 with a supplier for some replacement windows to be 
supplied and installed. The total cost of the windows was about £22,000 and Mrs H made 
some payments to the supplier from an overseas bank account. There were some issues 
with the windows and Mrs H paid £113.43 to the supplier in July 2021 using her Sainsburys 
Bank plc (Sainsburys Bank) credit card for this to be put right.
Mrs H subsequently made a claim to Sainsburys Bank under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75) for a refund of the full amount that shed paid for the windows. 
Sainsburys Bank said that the original transaction formed a separate contract to the 
subsequent call-out/inspection fee and as they had no part in the original contract they didnt 
accept any liability. Sainsburys Bank also said that there hadnt been any unnecessary 
delays in the handling of her claim, as Mrs H alleged. But they offered to refund the £113.43 
to Mrs H as they felt the supplier had breached its contract by failing to provide the services 
as agreed. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys Banks response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She said that 
the payment of £113.43 was intended as part of a separate contract at the point it was made 
and she didnt consider that Sainsburys Bank had made any errors when considering their 
responsibilities under the Consumer Credit Act. 
Mrs H asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She said that the 
contract was breached at the time of the transaction because the supplier didnt fix the faults.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied that the necessary criteria for a section 75 
claim to be made by Mrs H was met. 
Mrs H entered into a contract with a supplier for the provision of replacement windows and 
their installation. She paid some of the amount due under that contract by bank transfers 
from an overseas bank account and I gather there is an outstanding balance due. 
Mrs H says that the supplier reassured her that if she paid a fee of £113.43, they would 
come out and remedy the issues so she paid the supplier using her Sainsburys Bank credit 
card in July 2021. Mrs H says that she paid the fee as a last resort to try to get the supplier 
to rectify the whole situation.
However, I consider that the payment of £113.43 to the supplier was a payment under a new 
contract for them to visit her and to perform some remedial services on the windows. I 
realise that the supplier deducted that figure from the overall amount that Mrs H still owed 
them under the original contract. However, it looks to me that the supplier did this as a 
gesture of good faith so that Mrs H wasnt paying anything extra overall. I dont consider that 
this amounted to a variation of the initial contract or that what had agreed to be provided in 
July 2021 formed part of that initial contract. So, I dont find that Sainsburys Bank would be 
liable for any breach of contract in respect of the initial contract agreed by Mrs H and the 
supplier to provide and install the replacement windows. 
Sainsburys Bank has offered to refund the £113.43 to Mrs H because the supplier hadnt 
provided the services that shed paid for in July 2021. I consider this to have been a fair and 
reasonable offer for Sainsburys Bank to have made at that time and Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to require them to pay Mrs H anything further. Im also 
satisfied that Sainsburys Bank didnt unnecessarily delay their investigation into what 
happened or their response to her.
I sympathise with Mrs H for the issues that she has with her windows, however my decision 
is that Sainsburys Bank should only refund to her account the £113.43 she paid to the 
supplier in July 2021 (if it hasnt already done so). I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Sainsburys Bank to refund any other amounts to Mrs H, to pay her any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Sainsburys Bank plc should refund £113.43 
to Mrs Hs account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023. 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman