DRN-3931451
The complaint
Mr D complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) have failed to assist 
him redeeming reward points that are operated by its online retail partner.  
What happened
Mr D says he holds an AMEX credit card where he can earn reward points with an online 
retailer. Mr D says when he visited the online retailer partners (ORP) website, despite 
several attempts he was unable to redeem the points he had accumulated on his AMEX 
credit card. Mr D says he had complained to the ORP but after months of trying he contacted 
AMEX to help him resolve this with the ORP. Mr D says AMEX have washed their hands of 
the problem and have told him its not a problem with their systems and he needs to take this 
up with the ORP. 
Mr D wants AMEX to engage with the ORP and find a resolution to his issue and apologise 
for its partners deficiency and ask the ORP to compensate him for the many hours hes 
spent trying to deal with the matter. 
AMEX says there is no issue with its own systems and the fault lies with the ORPs website 
and it has escalated the matter to them and theres nothing more it can do. 
Mr D wasnt happy with AMEXs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says she was satisfied AMEX awarded the points to Mr Ds credit card account 
and it couldnt be held responsible for the ORPs website issues. The investigator says this 
service couldnt look at the ORP complaint as this isnt a regulated activity and felt AMEX 
had requested the ORP to look into the matter for Mr D and couldnt ask it to do anymore. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr D when he couldnt 
redeem  his Amex credit card points on the ORPs website.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if AMEX were responsible for the issues Mr D 
faced when he attempted to redeem the accumulated points on the ORPs website. 
Mr Ds complaint centres around the fact the online retail partners website cant recognise 
his AMEX points and while that may be a fault with the retailer, AMEX have done nothing to 
help resolve the issue and its their credit card after all. Mr D says he would like AMEX to 
use its influence with the ORP to help sort out this matter. 
While I understand the points Mr D has raised here and without trying to minimise the 
frustration this matter would have undoubtedly caused him, Im not fully persuaded by his 
argument that AMEX are at fault. I say this because AMEX have provided this service with 
details that confirm Mr D had accumulated the points he was due, and the issue wasnt 
therefore of its making. Additionally, AMEX in May 2022, did advise its ORP of the problems 
Mr D had faced and whether it was a wider issue which the ORP advised it wasnt. 
So here AMEX did take steps to try to help Mr D, even if he didnt feel it went far enough, but 
its fair to say it wouldnt be under AMEXs control to deal with any technical issues of the 
ORP here.
I understand Mr D has now closed his AMEX credit card account, but even so after further 
involvement with this service, AMEX has agreed to forward on to the ORP, any screen shots 
Mr D may wish to send and hopefully this way the issue can be dealt with at the correct 
reporting level for Mr D. While of course theres no guarantee this will provide the outcome 
Mr D wants here, that would be something between him and the ORP, but it goes to 
underline that AMEX have tried to help find a resolution. 
I am satisfied this is a fair outcome to Mr Ds complaint and I cant ask AMEX to do any more 
than that, as theres no evidence to suggest the fault lies with them. I will leave it with Mr D if 
he wishes to send the screen shot details via AMEX to the ORP, and if he so wishes the 
investigator can provide him with their contact details. 
While Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of AMEX here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman