DRN-3478783
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain, through a representative, that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax mis-sold them investments that were too risky.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs B are seeking financial compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B met with a Halifax financial adviser in April and May 1996 and they were 
each advised by Halifax to invest £6,000 into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP).
In September 1998, Mr B took advice again from Halifax and was advised to invest a 
further £5,115 into his PEP. Mr B also invested £7,000 in an Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) in May 2003, without taking advice.
Mr and Mrs B surrendered their PEPs in 2018, making gains of £9,147.99 (Mrs B) and 
£11,435.80 (Mr B).
In response to this complaint, Halifax didnt think the advice it gave in relation to the PEPs 
in 1996 and 1998 was unsuitable. It said there had been a full discussion with 
Mr and Mrs B about their personal situation and aims for their savings. Halifax said they 
both had earned income and were in a position to invest and that the adviser established 
they were willing to accept some investment risk . It felt the medium risk funds 
recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs B and didnt uphold their complaint about the 
PEPs. Halifax said it could not comment on the suitability of the ISA since Mr B had 
arranged that investment without advice from Halifax.  
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this response from Halifax and so they brought their 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and he thought that Halifax hadnt done 
anything wrong. He said that although there was only limited information now available 
about the make-up of the PEP funds Mr and Mrs B invested in, based on what he had 
seen, he couldnt conclude the medium risk rated investment had been too risky for them. 
He also explained he wasnt recommending upholding their complaint about the ISA since 
hed seen enough to be satisfied this hadnt been an advised sale.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt completely agree with the investigator. They withdrew their complaint in 
relation to the 1998 advice. But, on their behalf, their representative said Mr and Mrs B were 
first time investors and although recommended to expose 41% of their assets to medium 
risk in 1996, we feel that this was too high. There would have been other, more suitable 
funds available which could have been considered...
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B are no longer complaining about what happened in 1998 and they havent 
disagreed with what our investigator said about the ISA in 2003 not being an advised sale, 
so I dont need to say more about those investments. I will concentrate on what happened in 
1996.
The core of Mr and Mrs Bs argument seems to be that the advice to invest in the PEPs was 
unsuitable because this was too risky an investment for Mr and Mrs B as first-time investors. 
But, whilst the clients investment experience is something that the adviser should consider 
when advising on investments, it is not the only thing that needs to be considered. The fact 
someone is a first-time investor does not automatically mean that only investment in low risk 
or no risk investments should be recommended, as Mr and Mrs Bs representative seems to 
be suggesting. This would effectively deprive first time investors of the opportunity to make 
bigger investment gains than they could otherwise achieve, which seems unfair to me.
The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs B were both in paid work and they had a reasonable net 
disposable income of £245 each month. They both had many years of working life ahead of 
them before they would reach state pension age, giving Mr and Mrs B plenty of earning 
potential. They owned their own home worth £60,000 free from mortgage and they each held 
savings in deposit accounts which altogether totalled £26,310 plus a further £2,500 savings 
held in joint names. They had no liabilities. 
I find Mr and Mrs B were in a strong enough financial position to be able to invest. The 
Personal Financial Questionnaire completed by the adviser in April 1996 and signed by 
Mr and Mrs B shows that their objective was capital growth. Given this objective I think 
that Mr and Mrs B needed to invest in a risk-based investment.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr and Mrs B would have been comfortable with the 
level of risk they took on when they invested in the PEPs in 1996.
Given Mr and Mrs B were reinvesting money they had received when a previous 
investment reached maturity and they still had an ample cash reserve left, with scope to 
rebuild their finances in the event of investment loss, I dont feel they were advised to invest 
too much of their capital. And, looking at their objectives and aims, I cant conclude that 
they were advised to invest with too much risk. Ill explain why. 
Its unsurprising that after so many years, Halifax cannot provide detailed information about 
the fund make-up in 1996. But I think the information it holds from 1997 provides a useful 
insight into the likely composition of a fund it describes as medium risk.
The key features document from 1997 describes the aims of the fund as follows:
Halifax Growth Trust
To maximise the overall rate of return from a diversified portfolio of securities while 
primarily concentrating on capital growth.
Under the heading Risk factors it included the following information: 
You are investing indirectly in stocks and shares. The value of these investments and 
income from them can go down as well as up because of movements in market values or 
exchange rates and so are not guaranteed.This suggests to me the fund was likely invested in a mix of equities and fixed interest 
securities  in other words, it included some more volatile products balanced by less risky 
investments  which would fit the overall description of medium risk. 
Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk in 1996 isnt recorded and there is no way of knowing with 
any degree of certainty what Mr and Mrs B understood about risk at that time. But keeping 
in mind Mr and Mrs Bs needs and investment objectives, their capacity to absorb some 
investment loss if necessary and the tax free benefits the PEPs offered them, I havent 
seen enough to be able to say this fund was too risky or otherwise unsuitable for them.
The fact that Mr and Mrs B say there may have been other more suitable/less risky funds 
which could have been considered isnt a reason to uphold this complaint because I have 
found that the advice they were given was suitable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman