DRN-2971798
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc unfairly charged him for damages when he 
returned a car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
There are two separate issues in this complaint. Mr M considers the charge for damage to 
the car to be unreasonably high and he feels that he should be compensated because he 
was unable to make as much use of the car as anticipated due to the Covid restrictions.
As our investigator has explained in some detail Mr M agreed to pay for the cost of any 
damages which went beyond fair wear and tear. Both this service and the industry generally 
rely on the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing guidelines on what constitutes fair wear and 
tear.
The damages for which charges have been raised are clear from the photos taken by the 
inspector and I do not consider he has made any errors. Mr M believes the amount charged 
is excessive, but it was open to him to have the repairs carried out prior to collection. Given 
most of the charge relates to two tyres he could have had these replaced. As he did not 
Hitachi is entitled to levy a charge. I presume this will include not only the cost of the tyres 
but the associated labour costs of arranging for the work to be done. As such I cannot 
conclude that it is excessive. 
On the second issue Mr M is seeking some recognition that he was unable to make as much 
use of the car due to Covid restrictions. While that may well have been the case, I cannot 
hold Hitachi responsible for that. He entered into a contract which carried a maximum 
mileage, but it did not have a minimum mileage or any requirement that he be compensated 
for reduced use. It is not unusual for consumers to cover fewer miles than the maximum set 
down the contract even without the recent restrictions. However, there is no basis of them 
receiving some form of compensation or any reduced charge. 
The contract does not allow for that. If Hitachi were to forgo some payment that would be a 
goodwill gesture and it is not something I can require. As such, I cannot say that the 
business has done anything wrong. I have every sympathy with Mr M, but I do not consider I 
can uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman