DRN-4472972
The complaint
Ms T and Mr V complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed their bank accounts. 
What happened
I am aware that Ms T and Mr V had several accounts with Barclays and have raised 
complaints with this service about the closure of them. This decision will deal with the 
closure of Mr Vs and Ms Ts joint personal accounts. Their complaints regarding their other 
accounts will be addressed separately.
Ms T and Mr V had four joint accounts  two current accounts and two savings accounts. In 
September 2021, following a review Barclays decided to close the accounts immediately. 
Barclays wrote to Ms T and Mr V telling them they needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements and that they would need to attend a branch with ID before it could release 
the funds in the accounts. Mr V and Ms T did this in December 2021.
Barclays now says it should have given Ms T and Mr V more notice of the closure of their 
accounts . It says it should have given them at least two months notice and has offered 
Ms T and Mr V £100 compensation for the trouble and upset closing the accounts without 
notice caused them.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He said that Barclays offer was fair and had 
released the balances of the accounts without any undue delays. He also said that Barclays 
werent obliged to provide Ms T and Mr V with an explanation about why it no longer wanted 
them as customers.  
Mr V disagreed. He said Barclays has broken the terms and conditions of the accounts. He 
says that the banks are in cahoots with the politicians who set banking policy and practices 
to benefit them and not the everyday man. He says the closure of his accounts caused him 
extreme anguish, financial duress and severely impacted his health and business. So, he 
wants Barclays to reopen the accounts, tell him why it closed the accounts and to pay more 
compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, 
and to prevent and detect financial crime.
In order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, its not unusual for a financial 
business to periodically review its customers accounts, even if the account holder has been 
a customer for some time. Having looked at all the evidence and information, Im satisfied 
that Barclays were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed 
Ms Ts  and Mr Vs accounts. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
As the investigator has already explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
The terms and conditions that applied to Ms T and M Vs accounts set out that Barclays 
could close their accounts by giving them at least two months notice. In some 
circumstances it could close the accounts immediately, which is what happened here. 
Weve asked Barclays about this. In response, Barclays said that although it would still have 
closed the accounts, it should have given Ms T and Mr V more notice. I understand of 
course why Mr V wants to know the exact reasons behind Barclayss decision. And I can see 
that Mr V has asked Barclays to explain itself on several occasions. But Barclays doesnt 
disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no 
obligation to tell Mr V the reasons behind the account review and closure, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr V this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. But looking at all the information I 
accept that Barclays could have closed the accounts if it had given the correct notice.
Ive considered what would most likely have happened if Barclays had given Ms T and Mr V 
more notice about closing their accounts  as it now accepts it should have done. Having 
looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays would still have closed the accounts  
even if it should have given Ms T and Mr V more notice. So, I wont be asking Barclays to 
reopen the accounts.
When the accounts were closed, I can see that Barclays arranged for the closing balances of 
Ms T and Mr V accounts to be released to them. Barclays asked Mr V and Ms T to go into a 
branch with some ID, which is in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. Im satisfied 
that Barclays released the funds without any undue delays although I can see that Mr V and 
Ms T didnt actually visit a branch until 24 December 2021 to collect the funds, which was 
nearly three months after Barclays said the balances were available.
With all this in mind Ive gone on to consider whether Barclays offer of compensation is fair. 
Barclays has offered £100 to reflect the trouble and upset not giving Ms T and Mr V more 
notice caused. Mr V says this is insulting and says his business reputation and goodwill was 
damaged which has adversely impacted his future income. He has explained that he has 
mounting debt as he hasnt been able to open business accounts. Overall, he said the whole 
experience has caused him anguish, stress and taken a toll on his health.
Ive considered how Barclays actions impacted Ms T and Mr V. Ive no doubt having the 
accounts closed without notice was a shock to them. But some of the impact Mr V has 
mentioned are losses associated with his company, not directly to Mr V or Ms T. so I cannot 
compensate Mr V for that  as I said above this will be addressed under a separate 
complaint. I can see Mr V spent time contacting Barclays trying to find out what had happened and why 
the accounts had been closed. I also accept that Mr V and Ms T had to go to the trouble of 
quickly finding and opening new bank accounts. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been  
inconvenient and upsetting for them. And its only right that Barclays recognises this. 
However, Im satisfied that £100 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset Mr V and Ms T were caused in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive kept in mind that Mr V and Ms T would always have had to 
spend time sorting things out even if things happened as they should have  in particular, 
that Barclays would still have closed Ms Ts and Mr Vs accounts. Ive considered Mr Vs 
further comments. But these dont change my conclusions.
 
In summary, Based, on all the evidence and circumstances, I think Barclays offer of £100 
compensation is fair. I understand Ms T and Mr V will be unhappy with my decision but, I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything more to resolve Mr Vs and Ms Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman