DRN-1478090
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave her loans 
irresponsibly.                          
What happened 
This complaint is about 22 loans Sunny provided to Mrs R between November 2015 and 
February 2018. The amounts borrowed ranged between £100 and £600. 
Heres a table showing the first six loans: 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest* 
repayment
115/11/2015 31/12/2015 6 £200 £60.06
210/12/2015 31/12/2015 6 £300 £153.67
324/03/2016 01/09/2016 6 £300 £100.08
409/06/2016 08/11/2016 6 £450 £241.32
524/09/2016 13/11/2016 6 £150 £191.29
615/10/2016 01/02/2017 6 £300 £281.85
* this shows the total combined monthly repayments where loans overlap
Mrs R said that Sunny shouldve realised that she couldnt afford the loans and having to 
borrow in order to repay loans trapped her in a spiral of debt. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mrs Rs complaint. He felt whilst loans 1-5 hadnt been unfair, 
the pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards the borrowing was 
unsustainable  so Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs R loan 6 or any of the loans that 
followed. Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Sunny should take to put things right for 
Mrs R.
Sunny didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it offered to uphold 
the complaint from loan 14 onwards. Sunny sent details showing how it would work out the 
refund it was willing to pay to settle Mrs Rs complaint. We passed this information on to Mrs R  but shes told us she doesnt want to settle the 
complaint on this basis and shed like a final decision.  
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.As far as I can see, Mrs R hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loans 1 - 5. 
So I dont think I need to say more about loans 1 - 5 except to say that I agree with our 
adjudicator about these loans.  
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs R, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Rs case, I think by loan 6 Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have 
realised:
Mrs R was not managing to repay her loans sustainably. Since November 2015 she 
had taken out 6 loans in around 11 months or so 
 
whilst she repaid some loans earlier than the agreed term, successfully repaying her 
loans doesnt mean Mrs R managed to do so in a sustainable way. And borrowing 
and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that Mrs R was having 
problems managing her finances in a well planned way
 
the loan amounts varied, but Sunny could see that loan 6 was for twice the amount of 
loan 5, and more than the first loan Mrs R had taken with Sunny. Also, Mrs R took 
out loan 6 while she was still paying loans 4 and 5  
 
so it wasnt reasonable of Sunny to think her situation had improved and she was 
now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan rather than an 
ongoing problem
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely that Mrs R was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Rs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
 
I think that Mrs R lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. 
 
the number of loans which Mrs R borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Mrs Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans. By that point Mrs R had already borrowed six loans in a row. And 
any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to her credit rating.
 So Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 through to 22 and Sunny should put things 
right. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs R towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 6 - 22, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs R which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C.  Sunny should pay Mrs R the total of "A" plus "B".
 
D. The number of loans taken from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded 
about loans 6  22 is adverse. So all entries about loans 6  22 should be removed 
from Mrs Rs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mrs Rs complaint and Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps set out above to put things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman