DRN-2586370
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited (Bollington) failed 
to amend an insurance policy when requested.
What happened
Where I refer to P within this decision, this includes its representatives, who are for the 
purposes of this matter its directors Mr T and Mr F.
P arranged an insurance policy through Bollington to cover its business activities, premises 
and property. Ps main business is the selling and maintenance of motorcycles. An 
insurance policy underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A was arranged by Bollington.
Ps premises were broken into and a number of tools stolen. A claim was made on the policy 
but A declined cover and voided the policy. A said the value of portable hand tools hadnt 
been properly represented by P when the policy was taken out. A separate complaint about 
As actions in respect of the claim and policy voidance has been made.
P complained that Bollington hadnt amended the policy with A even though, in the period 
between taking out the policy and the break-in, it had asked to increase the value of hand 
tools insured on the policy. Bollington said it had no record of this. 
P also complained about two administrative issues relating to the policy. The first was that 
payment following a separate policy amendment was not taken for a prolonged period, and 
the second was that policy documents hadnt been sent after making that amendment. 
Bollington said that the payment should have been taken sooner but the policy had been 
amended so there had been no effect on the cover afforded to P. It said that the policy 
documents should have been sent sooner and offered to pay £75 compensation in 
recognition of this.
As P remained dissatisfied, it brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
intend to ask P to do any more than it already had done. She didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to show that P had requested the amendment to the value of portable hand tools 
before the claim. She also considered that there was no detriment to P caused by the delay 
in payment, as the policy cover had been amended. She also thought the £75 offered as 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the policy documents not being sent was 
adequate in the circumstances.
P didnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill look at the matters related to the portable hand tools value, and the other administrative 
matters separately.
The portable hand tools value
It doesnt seem to be a matter of dispute that the value originally given by P for portable 
hand tools was £2500. This value was mentioned in a number of phone calls between 
representatives for P and Bollington, and is also recorded on the documents prepared by 
Bollington when placing the business with A.
The issue in question is that P contends that after this, but before the theft occurred, they 
were in contact with a representative of Bollington, who Ill refer to as M, and it was agreed 
that the portable hand tools value would be increased to £25,000 and the policy amended in 
line with this.
Bollington say theres no record of any such contact with P, and theres no reference to this 
in any of the call recordings weve been provided with. P says that calls were made to Ms 
mobile phone. M doesnt have a work mobile phone and so any such call would be made to 
a personal mobile phone. As thats the case, I wouldnt expect a recording of any such call to 
be available. Im unaware of any provision for the habitual recording of personal mobile 
phone calls.
Ive considered whether theres enough evidence for me to say that its more likely than not 
that such calls with M did occur, and that it was agreed that Bollington would amend Ps 
policy to reflect a higher value. I dont think there is.
I say this for a number of reasons. Bollington has no record on its systems of any such 
amendment being requested, and no amendment to the policy was made with A. 
Furthermore, Bollingtons explained that Ms role was in arranging new business, and any 
mid-term policy amendments would be dealt with by other representatives. Its also observed 
that an increase to £25,000 worth of portable hand tools would have attracted an increased 
premium. Theres no record of an increased premium being paid, or any request for P to 
make such a payment. Finally, it notes that the underwriting guidance in effect at the time 
meant that an increase to £25,000 would have necessitated further questions about the 
security of the premises and storage of the tools. Theres no record of such questions being 
discussed or P providing evidence to Bollington at the time of it adhering to these security 
requirements.
For these reasons, I cant be satisfied that its more likely than not that P was told that 
Bollington would make arrangements with A to amend the policy to reflect a higher value of 
portable hand tools before the break-in occurred.
The administrative matters
There are two issues complained about here. The first is that following a separate 
amendment to the policy, payment wasnt taken by Bollington for three months. Bollington 
has noted this happened due to an administrative error.
The other matter is that policy documents werent sent to P after this amendment was made. 
Ive seen evidence that these were sent by to P by email 37 days after the amendment was 
made. Bollington acknowledges that this delay was unnecessary and has offered £75 in 
compensation in recognition of this.
Im not going to require Bollington to do anything further here. The policy had been amended 
and the delay in taking the payment was an administrative matter which didnt cause any 
detriment to P. It wasnt denied cover for any incident, or affected in its ability to carry out 
their business by the delay in taking payment for the amendment or the delay in sending 
policy documents.Errors were made and the delays shouldnt have happened. Ps been inconvenienced in 
having to chase these matters up with Bollington. But the inconvenience is relatively minor in 
that the policy remained in force and, as Ive said above, P wasnt denied any cover or 
experienced any other noticeable detriment as a result of this. So I wont be asking 
Bollington to pay any more compensation.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman