DRN-2874891
The complaint
Mr W complains that he has been mis-sold an endowment policy by HSBC UK Bank Plc. He 
says he was led to believe he would receive a lump sum payment on maturity. 
What happened
Mr W complained to HSBC in January 2019, but when he didnt get a response he asked us 
to look into his complaint. In response to the file request, HSBC thought it might have 
considered a complaint previously as it provided a copy of a letter from Mr W sent in March 
2000 where he complains of being mis-led. It said it had very little information about any 
endowment policies that Mr W had. It also provided a letter from Mr W requesting the 
surrender of four endowment policies in January 2001.
Our investigator didnt think she could safely conclude HSBC had responded to a complaint 
in 2000 such that she could find Mr W had referred it to us out of time. However, because of 
there being very little information available she didnt think she could investigate the sale of 
the policy fairly, or that any meaningful redress calculation could be carried out as no 
surrender values were known. 
Mr W asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, he isnt happy HSBC never 
responded to his complaint. And he is satisfied that as the letter of March 2000 refers to 
receiving cash surpluses this is sufficient evidence that something has gone wrong and he 
should be paid these sums.  He believes it clear from the correspondence that he was mis-
sold an endowment and that HSBC knows this as fact. He considers it suspicious the bank 
has some information but not anything else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr W feels strongly about his complaint. And although I have only summarised 
the background and what has happened, including Mr Ws arguments, I would like to 
reassure both him and HSBC that I have read and considered everything provided. 
Mr W has completed a mortgage endowment questionnaire which can be very helpful in 
providing information about someones circumstances at the time of the sale and information 
about the endowment policy and how it was sold. But this evidence isnt as good as 
evidence from the time, as it is based on recollections from many years later which might not 
be entirely accurate. Mr W has indicated in this that the policy he is complaining about was 
set up for 22 years, running from September 1982 and invested into the with-profits fund. Mr 
W wasnt able to provide a policy number and Im not aware that the sum assured or the 
premium amount is available either. 
The only information HSBC had about a policy was from 1988. That policy was set up to 
achieve £4,336 on maturity and was invested into the balanced fund. So it appears the only 
policy information HSBC holds relates to an entirely different policy than Mr W indicated in 
the mortgage endowment questionnaire and so it doesnt appear to be the same policy Mr W 
is complaining about.  
I have considered the letter Mr W sent to HSBC in March 2000. I accept in this letter Mr W 
refers to being told he would receive over £8,000 surplus, and a surplus of over £700 on 
another policy. But this letter isnt proof that Mr W was given a contractual guarantee of 
what the policies would achieve on maturity. And the policy numbers referred to here are 
different to the policy information provided by HSBC and it isnt known if these policies (or at 
least one of them) is the policy Mr W has provided some details about in the mortgage 
endowment questionnaire. To cause further confusion there is an additional letter from 
January 2001, which requests the surrender of four endowment policies. Again, none of 
policy numbers match the policy information provided by HSBC and it isnt known if any of 
these policies is the one referred to by Mr W in the questionnaire. This is the only information 
available about Mr Ws endowments. 
Without policy information  such as the sum assured, the premium, the area invested into, it 
is very difficult, if not impossible, to reach a fair and reasonable outcome about whether 
taking out the policy was appropriate for Mr W. And without knowing the surrender value it 
isnt possible for a meaningful redress calculation to be carried out to identify if a financial 
loss has been suffered. As mentioned above, the letter sent in 2000 isnt persuasive 
evidence that Mr W was provided with a contractual guarantee about what an endowment 
policy would achieve on maturity. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to assume Mr W had a 
contractual guarantee without documentary evidence in support of that, particularly as that 
wasnt typical of endowment policies. In such situations, where we are able to establish the 
policy shouldnt have been sold, which we cant fairly do here because of the lack of 
documentation, redress is calculated to what position the policy holder would be in had a 
repayment mortgage been taken out instead. Where a policy has been surrendered, we 
need to know the surrender value in order to carry out that calculation and identify if a loss 
has been suffered. Neither party has been able to provide any surrender values for the 
policies surrendered.
I appreciate it must be very frustrating for Mr W to not be in a position to have an 
investigation completed into whether the policy was appropriate. But Im afraid such 
situations are commonplace where the event complained about happened so long ago, and 
documentation is no longer available. I understand Mr W finds it suspicious that HSBC had 
some information and not anything else. But I dont share that suspicion. Data protection 
obligations means businesses are not supposed to keep information for longer than 
necessary, it seems these policies were surrendered over 20 years ago and so its not 
surprising there is very little information available, if anything at all. 
In the circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about the sale of an endowment 
policy. 
Finally, I know Mr W is unhappy HSBC never replied to his complaint. I understand that had 
something to do with Mr W initially setting out his complaint related to PPI in his complaint 
letter. Where a business doesnt respond or is unable to complete an investigation within 
eight weeks, a complaint can be referred to us for investigation. And that is what Mr W did. I 
appreciate not getting a response was frustrating but once the matter was referred to us, it 
was for us to reach an outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont I uphold this complaint. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my 
decision before 30 July 2021. Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman