DRN-1558666
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was unable to make payments to his account using his mobile 
banking app. And when he made enquiries with Bank of Scotland plc about that he was 
given the wrong information. 
What happened
Mr T has a credit card account with Bank of Scotland. And he sometimes uses his mobile 
banking app to make repayments to the account. On 27 November 2019 he was unable to 
make a payment, despite trying several times. So he visited a branch, who suggested there 
was a problem with the app and to try again later. But it still wasn't working. 
Worried that he couldn't make a payment, Mr T called the bank, who explained he could only 
make a few repayments to his credit card a month using the app, and he had exceeded the 
limit. Mr T complained as this information hadn't been provided in branch. During his 
complaint, Mr T says he wasn't provided with updates and call back promises made weren't 
kept. The bank added these concerns to his complaint about the information provided in 
branch. 
The bank upheld Mr T's complaint in part. It agreed the branch should have been able to 
either answer his query correctly or help him find the correct answer. It also agreed that a 
call back that had been promised wasn't made. But the bank didn't agree there had been an 
error in not accepting a further payment by the app, as this was an in-built security feature. It 
offered Mr T £75 compensation. 
Our investigator agreed this was a fair resolution to the complaint. Mr T has asked for a 
decision as he doesn't think this reflects the inconvenience he was put to, and he had to use 
his credit to make calls to the bank about this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank has told us that only a few payments can be made via the app a month and that 
this is a security feature of the app. As Mr T had already made payments to the account via 
the app that month, the security feature kicked in. Banks are required to protect their 
customers money, and what security measures a bank puts in place is a matter for it, and 
not something I'd generally interfere with. So I don't find it did anything wrong when not 
allowing the further payment. 
But I do agree with both Mr T and the bank, that branch staff should have been able to either 
answer his query, or help him find the answer; instead it provided incorrect information. I can 
also understand Mr T's disappointment that he was promised a call back that was never 
made. Understandably these have caused Mr T to be put to additional trouble, not only 
because he had to make further enquiries about not being able to make a payment, but 
because he then chased for responses when promised call backs weren't made. However, I do need to take into account that Mr T's query was answered quickly as was his complaint - 
well within the 15 working days allowed (not eight weeks). 
I'm satisfied the £75 offered by the bank, and which I understand has been paid, is a fair 
reflection of the trouble Mr T has been put to, including the credit he used to make the calls. I 
therefore won't be asking the bank to do anything more in relation to this matter, as I'm 
satisfied it has already fairly resolved it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman