DRN-2040005
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a Smilemore Account (SA) in 2009 by The Co-
operative Bank Plc (Co-op).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and the evidence provided by 
Co-op has been shared with Mr T, so I wont repeat it all here. The facts are not in dispute, 
so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that the SA was mis-sold because Co-op told him he could only have the overdraft 
facility he wanted if he paid for a monthly fee for the SA.
Co-op says that Mr T took out the SA because he was interested in the benefits based on 
the information it had provided to him.
This sale took place over ten years ago. The records available are a system note Co-op has 
provided which shows that Mr Ts conversion to a SA was accepted with an overdraft limit of 
£2000, plus the cost and benefits of the SA provided in letter and leaflet form from the time.
The SA cost £13 a month and its benefits included worldwide travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, savings on holidays and leisure attractions, and 
a choice of Safeguard, airport lounge access or gadget insurance. The SA also provided an 
automatic overdraft of £500 with the first £260 being interest free. 
Mr T had previously had a fee free account with a substantial overdraft facility. And he held a 
second fee free account with Co-op also with an overdraft facility. Such accounts were also 
widely advertised and available from other banks and financial institutions. So, I think its 
more likely than not he knew accounts with overdraft facilities were available to him free of 
charge. 
The SA only provided an automatic overdraft of £500. Co-ops evidence shows that Mr T 
asked for and was given an overdraft of £2000. In my view its more likely than not that Co-
op would only have done this after carrying out a credit rating check on Mr T. And so, I think 
Mr Ts credit status in 2009 was sufficient for Co-op to be happy to provide a £2000 loan to 
him in any form.
I also think its more likely than not that with his credit status, Mr T couldve obtained credit in 
the form of an overdraft or loan from Co-op or any other bank irrespective of which account 
he took out.
So, I think that if Mr T had been informed about the SA and he had not wanted to pay for it, 
he wouldve declined it and sought and successfully obtained the borrowing he needed 
elsewhere.
This service has seen that Co-ops practice in 2009 was to sell the SA on a non-advised 
basis and Ive not seen any evidence in this case that it acted differently. So, the 
requirement on Co-op was to provide Mr T with all the information he needed to make an 
informed decision.
Ive seen the information that Co-op provided to Mr T in the form of a letter and a leaflet, and 
these do describe the costs and key features of the product. I think its more likely than not 
that Mr T received those and the copious follow up letters about the SA over the years or he 
wouldve queried the fee that appeared on his statements. Mr T could also have closed the 
account any month if he wasnt happy with it but didnt for several years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr T chose to take out the SA and there wasnt any 
information that Co-op failed to provide Mr T that wouldve put him off taking it out.
So, I dont think Co-op did anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman