DRN-1975148
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card irresponsibly allowed him to open 
a credit card account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M says he opened the Marbles account in 2015 and at that time was in significant debt. 
He says that ought to have been obvious to Marbles and its lending was irresponsible as 
well as its decision to increase his credit limit from £900 to £2,300. Mr M says he had a 
number of other credit card accounts and had reached the credit limit on them. He says he 
also had loans and had a gambling problem which meant he was withdrawing cash. Mr M 
would like any charges and interest refunded and any adverse information removed from his 
credit file.
Marbles says the account was opened in November 2015 and offered Mr M the credit limit 
increase in May 2016 which he could have rejected. It says it carried out appropriate checks 
on Mr Ms credit file which showed he didnt have adverse information such as arrears or 
defaults. And took into account Mr M declared income of £35,000. Marbles says it is up to Mr 
M how he uses he account and is entitled to use it to withdraw cash. It says it tried to help Mr 
M when he told it about financial difficulties and correctly reported the account position to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) some years later when a default was registered.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Marbles had carried out appropriate checks on the application and was entitled to 
consider the lack of adverse information on Mr Ms credit file such as a default or arrears on 
other credit accounts. The investigator thought Mr M could have rejected the credit limit 
increase and thought Marbles had acted positively and sympathetically when told about Mr 
Ms financial difficulties.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says Marbles didnt consider how he used 
the account before the credit limit increase and also wrote to him as he exceeded his first 
credit limit within months of opening the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit application. 
Those checks will vary depending on the type of lending, for example a mortgage application 
will result in a more detailed check than for example a credit facility such as a credit card. 
I can see that Mr M applied for the account and declared an income of £35,000 and that 
Marbles looked at his credit file. I have looked at the information available to Marbles and Im 
satisfied that Mr M didnt have any adverse information recorded on his credit file such as 
defaults, arrears or County Court Judgements. I appreciate Mr M had other credit card 
accounts, but I think they appeared to be appropriately managed and can see his overall 
debt was about £17,000 which I dont think excessive in the circumstances. So, Im satisfied 
that Marbles carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ms application and I 
think was reasonably entitled to conclude the lending was affordable. Im also satisfied that 
Marbles approved a relatively low credit limit of £900.
I appreciate Mr M says he had a gambling problem, but I dont think Marbles could have 
known about that when it approved the lending. And I think when the account was opened it 
was up to Mr M to decide what he used the account for.
The credit limit was increased in May 2016. I accept Mr M had exceeded his credit limit by 
what I think was a relatively small amount on occasions. But I also think that Marbles was 
entitled to consider how Mr M managed his account and that he made appropriate 
payments. I dont think that the decision to increase Mr Ms credit limit was irresponsible and 
also think that Mr M manged the account appropriately for some time after 2016 which 
provides further evidence that at the time the lending was affordable.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I 
appreciate Mr M doesnt complain about how Marbles treated him when it was told about his 
financial difficulties. But I make clear that I think Marbles did act appropriately and fairly by 
agreed a repayment plan before taking the decision to default the account. 
I find that Marbles must accurately report the position of Mr Ms account to the CRAs which 
is what I think happened here.
Overall, Im satisfied Marbles appropriately assessed Mr Ms application and didnt act 
irresponsibly by opening the account and later increasing the credit limit. Im also satisfied 
any charges or interest were applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions. For 
those reasons I cant fairly order Marbles to refund any of the charges or interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman