DRN-3654212
The complaint
Mrs T says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs Ts complaint is about a credit card supplied by Lendable. The account was opened in 
February 2022 with an initial credit limit of £200.
Mrs T complains that Lendable irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the checks carried out by 
Lendable were reasonable and proportionate and that the decision to lend was fair.
Mrs T didnt agree so the company has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, is set out on this services 
website.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs T 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the customers income and expenditure.
Lendable says that the results of the checks it carried out didnt show anything negative to 
suggest that it wouldve been unreasonable to provide Mrs T with the loan. It says it asked 
her about her income and validated this using industry standard income validation tools. It 
says it checked Mrs Ts credit file and saw that she had no other active credit. It says it saw 
from the credit file that Mrs T had borrowed loans in the past and these had been paid back 
successfully, and that any missed payments had been quickly rectified.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Lendable gathered a reasonable amount of information from 
Mrs T about her ability to repay the loan.
Mrs T has said that if Lendable has looked at her bank statements, it wouldve seen that 
there were some gambling transactions. Theres no obligation on Lendable to check bank 
statements and Id only expect it to do so if there was something in the information it had 
already obtained to suggest that more detailed checks were necessary. In this case, there 
wasnt anything in the information obtained by Lendable which meant it ought to have carried 
out additional checks.
Im satisfied that the checks carried out by Lendable were reasonable and proportionate. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether Lendable made a fair lending decision.
Ive looked at all of the information that Lendable obtained. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
the information shows that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mrs T. I say this 
because of the level of Mrs Ts income, the absence of other active credit and the relatively 
low credit limit shed been given. I dont think there was anything to indicate that there was a 
risk that Mrs T wouldnt be able to afford to repay the loan.
Having looked at the available information, I havent seen anything to suggest that Lendable 
made an unfair decision in allowing Mrs T to open the account.
Im therefore unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman