DRN-3155996
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about the refusal of a claim for loss of equipment under his music 
equipment policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr L made a claim under his policy with Aviva in January 2021. He had been working 
overseas and while travelling back to his hotel by taxi one night lost a bag containing some 
work equipment. Mr L believes he left the bag in the taxi by accident. He contacted the taxi 
company the following day but his bag was not recovered. 
Aviva refused the claim on the basis that the bag had been stolen while left unattended in 
the open and says this is therefore excluded from cover. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He initially said that while the policy term 
relied on by Aviva wasnt right, the policy also excluded cover for items left unattended in a 
motor vehicle. The investigator later changed his mind and said the claim should be covered 
as the bag had been accidentally left in taxi, rather than stolen, so he thought it would be 
appropriate to treat it as an accidental loss claim. The investigator recommended the claim 
be paid, together with interest, and Aviva should pay £100 compensation. 
Aviva does not accept the investigators assessment. It says the policy term relating to the 
exclusion of cover for theft when left out in the open is the relevant term to apply to Mr Ls 
claim. Aviva says Mr L knew the bag was in the taxi and so had not lost it. And, in any event, 
the policy also requires policyholders to take reasonable care of their possessions and 
leaving a bag of expensive equipment in a taxi is not taking reasonable care. Aviva also said 
that Mr L is underinsured as the equipment claimed for is worth £3,530.52 and the insurance 
cover was for equipment up to a value of £2,900. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In common with all insurance policies, this one requires policyholders to take reasonable 
care and try and prevent losses. However, as the policy covers accidental loss, Aviva is 
agreeing to cover an element of carelessness on the part of its policyholders. I say this 
because insured items will not generally be lost if all possible precautions are taken to 
protect them. No loss would happen without a momentary lapse of concentration and the 
policy is insuring against that. For this reason we generally only consider it appropriate to 
apply such a term (about the policyholder taking reasonable care) if a policyholder has been 
so reckless as to have ignored an obvious risk. I dont think that applies to the circumstances 
of Mr Ls claim. 
There is no suggestion that Mr L made a deliberate decision to leave his bag in the taxi 
unattended. The evidence is that he unintentionally left the bag in the taxi due to a 
momentary lapse of concentration. I am not persuaded that this amounts to recklessness on 
Mr Ls part, which would require a deliberate decision on his part to have left the bag 
unattended in the taxi having no regard to the risk. There is no evidence to support such an 
assertion. 
For the same reason, I also do not agree that the bag was left unattended. To have been 
considered unattended, Mr L would have had to have made a deliberate decision to have left 
the bag, which I do not consider was the case based on the evidence provided. 
The loss happened the moment Mr L forgot to pick up his bag as he was exiting the taxi. The 
bag might then have been subsequently stolen (by the driver or another passenger) but this 
was after it had already been lost by Mr L. Therefore, in my opinion, the claim should have 
been considered as an accidental loss claim and I cannot see any exclusion that would 
apply to the claim. 
Aviva has also suggested that Mr L tried to change his account of the loss of the bag. I do 
not think this has been established. Mr L has consistently said he thinks he left the bag in the 
taxi. In response to the refusal of the claim by Aviva he said that he could not be certain 
about when the bag was lost and he had said what he thinks most likely happened but this 
was seemingly being used against him by Aviva to refuse the claim. I do not think this has 
any effect on the way the claim or complaint should have been handled.
In my opinion therefore, I think the claim should be reconsidered, subject to the remaining 
policy terms. The policy provides that Aviva will pay for the replacement of any lost insured 
items, so it could provide replacement items or pay cash. The parties will have to discuss 
what is preferred. Mr L might have already replaced some items, if he has then a cash 
settlement would be appropriate, together with interest at our usual rate. 
I have not considered the underinsurance point, as this has not been raised before but it 
could potentially affect the amount that is paid for the claim. I would expect Aviva to 
investigate the reasons for underinsurance and the effect, if any, this would have had on the 
premium before reaching any decision as to whether it affects the claim settlement. If Mr L is 
unhappy about the actual settlement he can revert back to us. 
I also agree with the investigator that additional compensation of £100 is warranted for the 
trouble the incorrect refusal of this claim caused Mr L.   
My final decisionI uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to:
1. meet Mr Ls claim, subject to the remaining policy terms; and 
2. pay interest on any cash settlement made at 8% simple per annum from the date of 
the loss to the date of reimbursement; and 
3. pay Mr L the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of the claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman