DRN-3853033
The complaint
Mr M complains about WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) who declined his claim under his 
mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M said that he dropped his phone, which fell into the road. He said that he was unable to 
retrieve the phone as it was run over many times by multiple cars and smashed into pieces. 
He said that due to his mobility issues, he was unable to pick up the pieces of the phone. So, 
returned home and asked a relative to retrieve the phone. 
Mr M explained that the relative couldnt retrieve the phone either. And he contacted WDP to 
make a claim. WDP explained to Mr M that because his policy was a damage only policy, his 
claim would be declined. 
Mr M complained and explained to WDP about his mobility issues and that he was elderly. In 
its final response, WDP said that Mr Ms phone wasnt covered for theft or loss. It said that 
as no pieces of the phone were retrieved, the claim wouldnt fall under damage only (as his 
policy provided). It would fall under loss, but as Mr Ms policy didnt provide cover for loss, it 
couldnt send out a replacement phone.  
Mr M was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service, as he remained 
unhappy. During our investigators investigations, WDP said that Mr M could pay the excess 
of £75, as well as the return fee for the damaged phone of £100. But Mr M said that he was 
unable to afford this. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
accepted that the damage occurred as Mr M had described. That is, he dropped his phone 
and it was smashed to pieces by various cars that ran over it. He accepted that Mr M 
couldnt retrieve the phone as it wasnt practical or safe to do so. He recommended that 
WDP settle the claim minus any excess. 
Mr M accepted the view, WDP did not. It said that as Mr Ms policy was limited to damage 
only cover, the terms and conditions of the policy meant that a charge would be levied to him 
for the non-return of the damaged phone, which was an industry standard. It said that as Mr 
M had cover that was cheaper in price, allowing claims for loss/unrecoverable devices on 
damage only policies, would be of concern to insurers.  So, it asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 21 November 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 19 December 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Mr M held a mobile phone policy with WDP. Having reviewed the policy schedule, terms and 
conditions, to see what type of cover Mr M had chosen. There are two options of cover, one 
that is damage only and one that provides full cover. Having looked at the full cover this 
extends to loss, damage, theft, as well as out of warranty cover.
Damage only cover is limited to damage only, as well as out of warranty cover. Mr Ms policy 
was the more limited cover of damage only. 
I have next considered what Mr M and WDP obligations are under the policy, in the event of 
a claim. Under the terms there is no cover for loss or theft of a phone  where the cover is 
limited to the damage only. Further, WDP said that this cover doesnt extend to 
unrecoverable device.  The terms go on to state: As soon as you receive your replacement 
device, the original claimed-for device (the faulty or damage device, or the lost or stolen 
device if later recovered) becomes the property of the Insurer and must be returned to us 
within 15 days.
Mr M said that due to his mobility issues he was unable to recover the phone, which I 
accept. But he also said that his relative went to the road that he had dropped his phone on. 
He said that there were pieces of the smashed phone on the road but his relative didnt 
retrieve them. Mr M hasnt provided any evidence that his relative had mobility issues. 
Consequently, having reviewed the term above, I think if there were pieces of the phone that 
couldve been retrieved, those pieces (however limited) couldve been sent to WDP. I think 
the policy is clear that the claimed for device will be the property of WDP and as such, it 
would require the device (or in this complaint pieces of the device) to be returned. 
Also, as Mr M described that his relative attended and saw the smashed phone, I think if 
photographs had been taken of the damaged phone (in the absence of recovering the 
smashed pieces), then I wouldve been able to consider this evidence. But at this stage, Mr 
M hasnt provided me with anything further. 
Finally, the terms of the policy also said: Otherwise, well charge a non-return fee (based on 
the value of the non-returned model) to the payment card used to pay your excess fee. 
WDP explained what this meant. It said that the fact that the terms and conditions include a 
charge to customers for not returning a damaged device should in no way be taken to 
suggest, that a customer with an unrecoverable device can benefit from their damage cover. 
This charge merely exists as a back-stop to ensure that where we do pay a valid damage 
claim the customer cannot benefit from simply refusing (or forgetting) to return the device. 
In other words, a device must be returned back and if it isnt, then a charge will be levied. 
Although, I accept that Mr M had mobility issues that prevented him from picking up his 
damaged phone, I dont think there is enough evidence to suggest that anyone else that he 
asked to recover the phone had the same or similar issues. So, I think even if Mr M (or 
someone on his behalf) had retrieved some of the phone, then he wouldve complied with 
the policy terms and conditions, as he wouldve been able to evidence his claim. 
Alternatively, if Mr M had provided photos of the damaged phone, then this may have been 
sufficient to support his claim. Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think Mr M has been able to evidence the 
damage to his phone, which is a requirement under the policy. WDP has offered as a 
goodwill gesture, that Mr M pay £100 as a non-return fee, as well as the excess fee of £75. I 
think this is fair in the circumstances. And WDP ought to indicate if this offer is still available. 
Although I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr M wouldve liked but, currently, 
I cant reasonably ask WDP to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
WDP accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr M said that he was disabled and so couldnt pick up the phone. He accepted that his 
family member wasnt disabled. And now said that when they attended, the phone was 
nowhere to be seen. He said the phone could have either gone into the treads of a tyre or 
been swept up by a road sweeper, as he said that one was in the area. 
I have carefully considered Mr Ms comments. I accepted and acknowledged that he is 
disabled. And I understand that his family member has no disabilities. All of this information, 
I have taken into consideration. 
Mr M initially said that when his family member returned to the scene where he dropped his 
phone, they saw pieces of the phone. Mr Ms recollection now is that there were no pieces, 
so he was unable to recover the phone. 
I accept what Mr M now says, but I think that his recollection of events would have been 
clearer nearer the time of the event rather than a while after the event. So, I think it is more 
likely than not that there were pieces of the phone in the road and those pieces were not 
recovered. 
Also, a requirement under the policy is that the phone is returned to WDP. And as this 
wasnt, I dont think that Mr M was able to evidence the damage to the phone. 
Although, I understand that this outcome is likely to be a disappointment to Mr M, I cant 
reasonably ask WDP to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman