DRN-1840917
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked a payment he tried to 
make in January 2020.
What happened
Mr L says he attempted an online transaction in January 2020 but Halifax blocked the 
payment. He says that meant he had to start the transaction again with a different account 
card and says Halifax's actions would have affected his credit standing with the company he 
tried to make the purchase from. Mr L says Halifax made no attempt to contact him and says 
the attempted transaction was similar to his previous patterns of expenditure. He would like 
compensation for what took place.
Halifax says it's entitled to block a transaction where it has security or fraud concerns and 
says it did try to speak to Mr L and also sent him a text message.
Mr L brought his complaint to us but our investigator thought Halifax had dealt fairly with the 
complaint. The investigator thought Mr L had not used his account card since October 2019 
and before that in July 2019. And didn't think it was our role to tell a business how it operates 
its fraud and security policies. The investigator thought Halifax had tried to speak to Mr L and 
that he was able to complete his purchase.
Mr L doesn't accept that view and says Halifax has not acted honestly. He says he used the 
account for a number of transactions between April and June 2019 and says Halifax didn't 
contact him and ought to have used his land line. Mr L says the inconvenience of fraud is 
less that the inconvenience of a blocked transaction. And says even if there was fraud he 
wouldn't have been responsible for that, and so Halifax should not suggest it was protecting 
his money. Mr L says the transaction was blocked for the benefit of Halifax and says there 
was a considerable impact on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. 
I have looked at Halifax's credit card account terms and conditions which I think Mr L would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. I can see those terms and conditions say 
that Halifax may not authorise a transaction where it has security concerns and may not give 
notice of any action it may take. I think that is what took place here, that for whatever reason, 
Mr L's attempted transaction raised security or fraud concerns, and it was blocked. So in 
those circumstances I don't think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly, but acted in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions.
I am sure Mr L appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies, and they must have security and fraud measures in place to protect its money and its 
customers money. I appreciate that Mr L says that account blocks have a greater affect on 
customers rather than actual fraud, as it's for the business to take responsibility for that, and 
pay the money back to customers. But I don't agree with Mr L, as there are occasions when 
customers do not receive their money back or there may be a delay in doing so. And in any 
event I think security and fraud measures are a necessity.
I accept that on occasions legitimate transactions are blocked as in this case. I also accept 
that in those circumstances genuine customers of banks and building societies are caused 
inconvenience. But I don't think it follows that, as in this case, Halifax's security systems 
didn't work or were defective.
I can see from Halifax's records that it tried to speak to Mr L and sent him a text message. I 
appreciate that Mr L disputes that and questions why Halifax didn't use his land line to speak 
to him. I'm satisfied that having looked at Halifax's records that it did try to contact Mr L, but I 
don't know which of Mr L's telephone numbers is registered as his main contact. That is 
something he will need to take up with Halifax.
Mr L has told us he was able to complete the transaction and that the impact of Halifax's 
action was considerable. I don't think the impact was significant and whilst I accept there 
was some inconvenience I can't fairly agree with Mr L, as I can see he was able to complete 
the purchase shortly after the account block. I also don't think Mr L suffered any financial 
loss as a result of what took place or that his standing with the company he tried to purchase 
the item from would have been affected by what took place.
We are not Halifax's regulator and so it is not our role to tell it what its security and fraud 
measure are or how it operates those systems. I'm satisfied such matters are for a business 
to decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly 
interfere in. I also can't fairly ask Halifax to tell us or Mr L why the transaction was blocked 
as I think such information would be commercially sensitive.
Overall I'm satisfied Halifax is entitled to block a transaction. I have not seen any evidence 
that this decision was taken for the benefit of Halifax as Mr L suggests. And I can't see what 
the purpose would be in taking such action unless a transaction raised security concerns. I 
accept that Mr L is unlikely to accept my decision and I think this brings an end to what we in 
trying to sort out this dispute informally can do to help him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman