DRN-3011926
The complaint
Ms B complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Ms B said she took out the PPI policy when she applied for a store card in the early 1980s. 
AXA and Ms B agree that the application was made in-store and that Ms B wasnt advised to 
take the cover, but AXA said the card was taken out in 1990. Ms B said that she wasnt 
given a choice about the PPI, and indeed she thought it had been added to her card without 
her knowledge and consent.
We dont have a policy document from 1990, but the earliest available document suggests 
that the policy is likely to have cost no more than £1.00 for each £100 Ms B owed on her 
store card. And if shed successfully claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, each month it would have paid out 15% of what she owed on the card when 
she stopped working. This wouldve carried on until she returned to work or the balance was 
cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. This was because AXA sent in 
evidence to show that no PPI premiums were paid, so Ms B hadnt suffered any financial 
loss. Ms B disagreed, and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that AXA had not been able to trace an account other than the one 
opened in 1990, and that I agreed with our adjudicator that there was no evidence of a 
financial loss on the part of Ms B. As a result, I said I didnt propose to uphold this complaint.
AXA did not send in a response to my provisional decision. Ms B responded to say that she 
was certain shed had an earlier store card account that shed used and then closed in 1986 
when she went to work abroad. And she was unhappy that AXA couldnt trace this. However, 
Ms B has been unable to provide any details of this earlier account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA sent us a copy of Ms Bs store card application. I can see that it was dated June 1990. 
The copy of the application isnt entirely clear, but I cant see any reference to PPI on the 
form. I have no information on how and when PPI was added, although AXA said that it was 
applied when the store card account was opened. AXA also sent in evidence to show that no 
PPI premiums were charged on the account. 
Ms B was certain that she took the card out in the early 1980s, so we asked AXA to check 
whether it had records of any other account. It said it had not, and sent in copies of various 
computer records to support this. I am satisfied AXA has carried out reasonable searches of 
its records in this respect. We also asked Ms B whether she had any details of the account, 
but she was unable to provide any. I note that Ms B said shed closed this account in 1986  
this is some 35 years ago, and businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. So it 
is not surprising that neither party has been able to provide any information. 
On the basis that there are no details of any other account, I have considered the sale of the 
PPI on the account opened in 1990. I mentioned that we do not have information on how 
and when the PPI was added. However, I dont need to look further at the circumstances of 
the sale, because even if I were to decide the PPI had been mis-sold, Ms B wouldnt be due 
compensation because, as Im satisfied no premiums were charged, there wouldnt be 
anything to pay back to her. 
In summary, having carefully considered all of the available evidence, and as neither party 
sent in new evidence or information in response to my provisional decision, I have decided 
not to uphold this complaint as I have concluded that Ms B suffered no financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman