DRN-3799897
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how RiverStone Insurance (UK) Limited dealt with a claim he made on 
a legal expenses policy. 
What happened
Mr D held a legal expenses policy which he used to pursue a personal injury claim. During 
the course of that legal claim two different firms of solicitors were involved. The legal claim 
was ultimately unsuccessful, and Mr D alleged this was mainly due to multiple errors by the 
instructed solicitors. 
RiverStone considered what Mr D said at the time and instructed a different solicitor to 
review the conduct of the legal claim to see if there was a valid claim for professional 
negligence. If it could be pursued RiverStone would look to seek a return of solicitors costs 
paid and Mr D, compensation in respect of any damages he may otherwise have received 
on the original case. 
The solicitors opinion was that a professional negligence claim would unlikely be successful. 
They said that it would be for Mr D to show that had the (alleged) errors not been made, the 
judge would have reached a different outcome on the personal injury claim. And they didnt 
think Mr D would more likely than not be able to demonstrate this. 
Mr D is unhappy with both how the original claim was conducted and that RiverStone will not 
pursue a professional negligence claim. 
In this complaint Mr D alleges that RiverStone negligently or deliberately overlooked many 
errors. And incorrectly advised him not to pursue a claim for professional negligence. In 
summary he made the following points:
RiverStone failed to note the particulars of claim had been lost and not returned. So 
he does not believe the review subsequently carried out took this into account.
The fact crucial evidence relating to the initial legal claim was not presented to the 
judge to consider and this is one of the reasons why he lost the case. 
The forged witness statement was used by a medical expert to prepare a report for 
the court which is serious misconduct and could have been considered contempt of 
court.
RiverStone and the instructed solicitors failed to understand the personal injury claim 
and it was presented incorrectly at court. 
The witness statement prepared by the solicitor was incorrect and the signature 
forged. This was known to RiverStone and no action was taken.
RiverStone considered Mr Ds complaint but ultimately concluded he was unhappy with the 
actions of the solicitors that conducted the case. It explained that solicitors are regulated 
separately, and Mr D should approach them to complain. It explained that it was entitled to 
rely on the advice provided by solicitors as they are the experts in such matters. And 
commented that it wouldve been for the court to decide what evidence was permissible in 
the personal injury claim and it wouldnt be able to comment on whether the evidence 
presented was fraudulent in anyway. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint. He found that Mr D had previously complained 
about different matters to RiverStone regarding the conduct of the legal case and its 
handling of matters. An ombudsman at this service has determined those matters were 
raised too late with this service for them to be considered here. The investigator explained to 
Mr D that he couldnt look at matters such as the documentation being lost and delays. 
The investigator explained to Mr D that RiverStone, as an insurer, was entitled to rely on the 
opinion of solicitors, unless it could reasonably see the advice it was being given was 
obviously wrong. He concluded that RiverStone didnt act incorrectly in relying on the advice 
of the solicitors during the original legal case. And, that it was entitled to rely on the opinion 
of the last solicitor when deciding not to pursue a claim for professional negligence.  He 
confirmed that if Mr D was unhappy with the actions of any of the lawyers concerned, then 
he would need to raise a complaint directly with them as they were regulated separately.
Mr D remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D has strong views about what has happened. Hes outlined that the original 
accident which led to the personal injury claim has had a profound impact on him and his 
quality of life. I can therefore understand why he has pursued this matter so vigorously. 
I want to assure him Ive read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This 
isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr D, and by RiverStone, to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Most of the points Mr D has raised in his complaint to RiverStone concern the specific 
actions of the solicitors involved in his legal claim. Solicitors are regulated separately and 
therefore RiverStone would not be held accountable for their actions.  If Mr D believes they 
acted incorrectly he would need to raise this as a complaint with them directly and take it to 
the appropriate authority that oversees them. 
I understand however that Mr D thinks RiverStone should be held accountable as it 
ultimately put him in contact with the solicitors and paid the bills associated with the legal 
action. While this may be the case, RiverStone are insurers, they have no legal knowledge 
and that is why legal matters are passed over to solicitors to deal with. At this service we 
generally dont think it is unreasonable for insurers to rely on the opinion of experts. And I 
cant see that RiverStone acted incorrectly here when doing so. When Mr D did raise concerns about what happened at court and his concerns about the 
evidence (or lack of) that was provided, I can see RiverStone acted how I would have 
expected it to and let the solicitors know concerns had been raised. 
It also instructed another solicitor to look into the way the legal claim was conducted and 
provide advice on whether they thought a separate claim should be brought for professional 
negligence. Again, here, while I can understand why Mr D feels so strongly that should have 
happened, the solicitors advice was that course of action would unlikely be successful. And 
again, I find that RiverStone was entitled to rely on the advice it received. 
Mr D has suggested the advice shouldnt have been relied upon as the amended particulars 
of claim were not in the document bundle he later received. However, I can see it was 
referred to in the post-trial note which the solicitor confirms reviewing. So I dont think the 
advice was obviously wrong in this respect or that RiverStone should not be able to rely on 
it. 
The solicitors advice on professional negligence was being sought for RiverStones purpose 
only at that point.  And therefore, while I can understand why Mr D may have been frustrated 
by the time it took, this isnt something I would hold RiverStone accountable for. 
In respect of Mr Ds allegation that RiverStone was aware of forged documentation being 
presented to court, I havent seen any evidence provided by him which supports this 
allegation. In any event, I would also comment here that the instructed solicitors were the 
ones running the legal claim and presenting the evidence. Therefore, any concerns in this 
respect would need to be put to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against RiverStone Insurance (UK) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman