DRN-3146516
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined her claim against her 
travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in September 2019, one of Mrs Js relatives booked a trip which 
included Mrs J. The intended departure and return dates of the trip were 2 August 2020 
and 16 August 2020 respectively. I understand that Mrs J paid her relative her share of 
the flight and accommodation costs.  
On 3 January 2020, Mrs J took out an annual AMT silver travel policy under the Boots 
brand  reference RTABI40109-08 A&B . The policy was in force 17 January 2020 to   
16 January 2021.
On 27 July 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO, formerly 
the FCO) advised against all but essential travel to Mrs Js intended destination. 
Following the FCDO advice, Mrs J cancelled her trip and made a claim against her policy 
in relation to flight and accommodation costs. URV declined the claim. It said that what 
happened here wasnt covered by the policy. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that whilst what 
happened here isnt one of the insured events, its fair and reasonable for URV to deal 
with Mrs Js claim. That was because the Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) says that Mrs J wont be covered if she travels against the advice of the FCDO. 
So, Mrs J wouldnt have been covered by the policy whether she cancelled her trip in 
response to the FCDO advice or ignored that advice and travelled anyway. The 
investigator didnt think that the exclusion was sufficiently clear.
URV didnt agree with the investigator. It said that what happened here wasnt an 
insured event and that Mrs J had a 14 day cooling off period in which to review the 
cover. URV also said that the reference to the FCDO in the IPID was made before  
covid-19 was known about, so it doesnt agree thats a reason to provide cover. 
The investigator considered what URV said but it didnt change his view. URV asked that 
an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
URV is the underwriter of Mrs Js policy. In the complaint form, Mrs J has also said that 
she believes she was mis-sold the policy. Mrs J hasnt put that to URV, so it hasnt had a 
chance to respond to it. That means that I cant deal with that point in this decision. If 
Mrs J wishes to pursue a complaint about the sale of the policy, she should contact the 
business that sold her the policy in the first instance. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks. 
The IPID
At the top of the IPID it says:
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract 
which can be found in your policy documentation. []
Under the heading, What is insured? it says:
The policy covers up to the following
If you are unable to go on your trip £3,000
On page 2 of the IPID, under the heading, Where am I covered? it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. [].
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of the policy set out the events leading to cancellation of a trip 
which are covered under the policy. None of those events are relevant here. The policy also 
says:
Criteria for purchase
This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone named 
on the insurance schedule/premium receipt:
[]
Are not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advice 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure.
Has Mrs Js claim been declined unfairly?
I dont think that URV acted fairly in declining Mrs Js claim. I say that because: 
Mrs J cancelled her trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
her intended destination. That isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which 
cancellation cover is provided. So, Mrs Js claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of her policy. 
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I dont 
think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mrs J to have no cover when she 
had to cancel her holiday. Ill explain why. As Ive set out above, theres an exclusion in the policy in relation to claims arising 
from travelling against FCDO advice at the time of departure. The IPID also refers to 
this exclusion. The exclusion means that if Mrs J had travelled she would have been 
acting against FCDO advice and she would have had no cover whatsoever under her  
policy. So, if Mrs J had travelled the policy would have been of no use to her. 
The effect of this exclusion is that Mrs J wasnt covered if she followed FCDO advice 
and cancelled her trip, but she also had no cover if she travelled abroad. 
I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCDO advice 
was easily understandable from the policy documents. The cancellation section of 
cover doesnt list changes in FCDO advice as an exclusion, so Mrs J would need to 
read the terms and conditions of the policy from beginning to end to understand the 
full effect of the policy. I dont think this is fair or reasonable, and I think a reasonable 
consumer would expect an exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a 
more prominent and transparent way. 
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of 
the policy wasnt clear to Mrs J. She had no cover at all when FCDO advice changed 
and I think this created a significant imbalance between the rights of the consumer 
and the rights of the insurer. I dont think this is fair and I dont think its likely Mrs J  
would have bought the policy if she realised there would be no cover under the policy 
if FCDO advice changed after the cover was purchased. 
Ive noted what URV says about the cooling off period, but I dont think that alters the 
outcome here. Thats because it remains the case that the combined effect of the 
policy wasnt clear to Mrs J and I dont think that the cooling off period changed that.  
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for the insurer to treat the claim as covered 
under the cancellation section of the policy, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
  
Putting things right
URV should deal with Mrs Js claim under the cancellation section of the policy, subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint. Union Reiseversicherung AG should now 
take the steps Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman