DRN-2942581
The complaint
Mrs C complained about delays and poor customer service by Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) under her home emergency policy which left her potentially liable for costs.  
What happened
under her sink on 3 May 2020 and reported it to Aviva the following day. As Aviva decided it 
wasnt an emergency, it said it couldnt send out an engineer to fix the leak due to Covid-19. 
It offered her an appointment for the 29th June 2020. Mrs C became distressed and said she 
was worried the leak would become worse and cause damage to her flooring which had 
recently been fitted at a cost of £3,000. She also informed Aviva that she felt vulnerable.
After Mrs Cs continued escalation, Aviva sent out an engineer on the 8 June 2020, but he 
couldnt fix the leak. It was identified it was the mains supply that was leaking. Aviva failed to 
contact Mrs C as promised on two or three occasions. Mrs C also waited in unnecessarily on 
the 10th June 2020 for an engineer to visit. Avivas contractor had refused to attend due to 
Covid-19. Aviva did try contacting her to let her know but used an incorrect email address, 
so Mrs C didnt get the notification.
An engineer did attend on 11 June 2020 and fixed the leak. Aviva arranged for some 
dehumidifiers, but one of Avivas contractors attended on 18 June 2020 and advised that 
dehumidifiers wouldnt be any use as he observed water had gone under the floor and come 
up by the cupboard. The contractors informed Aviva the floor would need to be dried out and 
new flooring fitted. Aviva asked Mrs C if she wanted the floor to be lifted and re-fitted by the 
business (B) she had fit the floor originally, which she confirmed. However, Mrs C indicated 
she wanted Avivas own contractors to manage and monitor the drying out of the floor. Aviva 
asked Mrs C to get a quote for the works from B. On receipt of the quote, Aviva said on 29 
June 2020, that it would arrange for its contractors to dry out the floor once B had lifted the 
damaged floor.
Once the flooring had been lifted, Avivas appointed contractor over the next week 
concluded that the water had spread under the floor and damaged the chipboard sub floor 
and had also soaked into the kitchen units and up the walls. Mrs C experienced some health 
issues at this time, which she says was caused by the issues with the claim.
On 23 July 2020, Aviva arranged for a surveyor to visit Mrs Cs property to assess what 
damage was historic and what damage was caused by Avivas delay in attending the 
emergency. The surveyor reported back that there was extensive damage to the floor and 
kitchen units. Aviva said: They were unable to determine when the leak had started but 
based on the extent of damage advised in their opinion, the leak had been ongoing for at 
least a year. Avivas conclusion was based on Mrs Cs water usage which was evidenced 
by meter readings, which showed her usage had increased significantly since 2016.
Aviva concluded it was an ongoing leak. It told Mrs C to refer the claim to her home insurer 
to arrange for her units and floor to be removed and to manage the drying process before 
putting the room back as it was. It didnt provide any further support to Mrs C.
Aviva have said Mrs C needed to pay B for lifting the floor at a cost of £625. Mrs C said at no 
time, did it ever say it would be at her cost. She also says she declined Avivas offer of £250 
compensation, as she felt it was not enough to compensate her for the poor service she 
received and for leaving her in ill health. Aviva did choose to pay the £250 to Mrs C anyway.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said he was persuaded by Avivas 
conclusion that the leak had been ongoing for a year, so he didnt think the delays that Aviva 
caused resulted in any additional damage to the kitchen. He also didnt think Mrs Cs policy 
would normally cover this kind of damage. He also thought Avivas payment of £250 
compensation was fair for its failure in providing Mrs C the customer service she would 
reasonably expect. Mrs C was unhappy with the outcome, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 6 July 2021. I said: 
I will first consider Mrs Cs complaint regarding the £625 she has been asked to pay to B for 
lifting the floor.
I have started by reviewing the terms of the policy to see what is covered. For a water supply 
pipe, the policy covers a leak or blockage in your water supply pipe. An engineer will locate 
the leak or blockage and repair, replace or unblock the affected section of the water supply 
pipe. This will include the permanent reinstatement of any excavations carried out as part of 
the claim.
The policy also refers to general exclusions, which includes:
a) any item not forming part of your policy coverage as detailed in What is Covered?;
b) any event, loss or damage arising from circumstances known to you before your 
policy start date.
Aviva fixed the leak and decided to install dehumidifiers to dry Mrs Cs kitchen. To allow the 
drying process to be effective, Avivas records show the floor needed to be lifted. Its unclear 
whether the drying process is intended to form part of Avivas service. Its not mentioned in 
their terms and conditions. Locating the issue and repairing the issue is stated and 
permanent reinstatement of any excavations. I think it could be argued that lifting the floor 
could be considered an excavation.
I think given Aviva made the decision to start drying Mrs Cs property, its reasonable to 
assume its part of the service it offered. I havent seen any evidence that shows Aviva told 
Mrs C that she would have to pay for that service. Aviva have since refused to pay for the 
cost of lifting the floor to allow the drying to take place, which is central to Mrs Cs complaint.
I have reviewed Avivas notes and I can see it originally asked its contractor to quote for 
lifting the floor. It makes sense that it explored the cost of lifting the floor, given it needed to 
do this to dry the floor effectively. The notes also suggest Mrs C was asked if she would 
prefer to use B, who originally installed the floor. She said yes and facilitated 
communications with B to provide a quote to Aviva. Its not clear from the notes who gave 
the instruction to B, but I can see that Aviva had some direct interaction with B which I 
wouldnt expect if Aviva didnt want the work to go ahead.
In the absence of evidence, I am persuaded by Mrs Cs account, that she wasnt made 
aware she was liable for the costs of lifting the floor. I think she thought this was part of the 
service offered by Aviva. It needed to lift the floor to dry it properly, so I think its reasonable 
for Mrs C to assume this was part of Avivas service.I dont think the terms and conditions are clear whether this is included or excluded. I think 
the actions of Aviva wouldve have given the impression to Mrs C that it was, so I can 
understand why Mrs C didnt expect to have to pay the invoice to B.
I have also considered what Aviva has said in refusing to pay these costs. It said: there is 
no way of confirming when this leak started, it is our opinion though it has been ongoing for 
at least a year to have caused such extensive damage from such a small drip. 
Avivas general exclusion to the policy excludes circumstances known to you before your 
policy start date. Aviva argued that it believes its a pre-existing, ongoing leak so, it said the 
claim should have been referred to Mrs Cs home insurance policy. I agree, in that Mrs C 
should be able to claim to have the damage to her floor, units and decoration rectified under 
her home insurance policy if she has one. However, I dont think Aviva can simply dismiss 
the costs for lifting the floor as the evidence points towards it instructing this work or implying 
this work was covered by this policy. I am persuaded that Mrs C reported the leak when she 
first became aware of it, so it shouldnt be excluded from the policy.
I also dont think Aviva have proved when the leak started. It has pointed to increased water 
usage since 2016, using water readings as evidence the leak has been ongoing for at least a 
year. Based on this, I think it is fair to assume it would expect the leak to have started in 
2016. However, Mrs C had her new floor laid in 2018. Her flooring contractor has written a 
testimony saying he took damp readings when fitting the new floor and the readings were 
normal. Aviva has chosen not to consider this evidence and I dont think this is fair. I dont 
think its clear when the leak started, and I dont think Aviva have proved it started before 
Mrs C took out the cover or that Mrs C should have been reasonably been aware of the leak 
earlier. Because of this uncertainty, I also dont think Aviva can be sure its delays in dealing 
with the leak havent made the damage worse.
By its own admission it has said there is no way of confirming when the leak started. I dont 
think Aviva have reasonably proved when the leak started. So, as I think Mrs C raised the 
claim as soon as she realised she had a leak and I think Mrs C was led to believe the costs 
would be covered under the policy, then I uphold this aspect of the complaint. I intend to 
require Aviva to pay the £625 to B for the lifting of the floor (or to Mrs C if she has already 
paid it).
I have considered the other part to Mrs Cs complaint, where she thinks the service she 
received was poor. Aviva has already paid Mrs C £250 compensation for the poor service. 
Mrs C said she was unhappy with the service as she had made it clear to Aviva from the 
outset she had vulnerable circumstances. I can see evidence during the duration of the 
complaint from the notes Aviva has kept that Mrs C was distressed and it was having an 
impact on her health.
Aviva acknowledged it shouldve treated the initial call as an emergency and deployed an 
engineer sooner to fix the leak. I can see in Avivas notes, Mrs C had to escalate the incident 
and was also let down with the appointment for an engineer to attend, when she wasted 
most of a day.
I can see that the claim was starting to progress, but it was when the floor was lifted that 
Aviva appeared to change its approach to the claim. The surveyor who assessed the 
damage on 23 July 2020 informed Aviva of the extensive damage caused by the leak and 
advised it to withdraw its support to Mrs C. It is at this point Aviva began to argue the leak 
was ongoing, which led it to say it wouldnt cover any costs or support Mrs C anymore.
Its approach to Mrs C from this point changed and I can see how this would have made her feel distressed, especially given her vulnerable circumstances. Its times like these, where I 
wouldve expected Aviva to step up and help Mrs C in her situation. It took nearly two 
months of activity from when Mrs C first raised the claim before Avivas surveyor assessed 
the damage and changed the course of its actions. I think it shouldve settled the invoice for 
lifting the floor, made sure she felt comfortable in her own home and helped her in referring 
the issue to her home insurer. For this reason, I think Aviva has let Mrs C down, so I intend 
to award Mrs C a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Aviva have 
contributed to by not supporting Mrs C in her time of need.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the lifting of the floor is
not covered by the policy under the terms and conditions. This was arranged when
we thought we were responsible for all the damage caused. However, when the
surveyors report was received we discovered we were not responsible for the
damage. The reason we did not pay for the floor to be lifted is because this was
required in order to dry the area out. As we did not cause the leak, and we are not
responsible for the damage, we did not pay for the work.
Mrs C accepted the part of my decision that related to the cost of lifting the floor and she 
confirmed shed paid the contractor for these costs. However, she said she wanted a higher 
amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience. She said she suffered a high level 
of distress at the time. She has shared transcripts of calls she had at the time of the 
complaint and evidence of ill health she suffered. She believes the events triggered a 
reoccurrence of a previous health condition.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said lifting the floor is not covered by the policy. Ill explain why this doesnt alter 
my decision. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Aviva set out to pay the 
costs of lifting the floor, but later changed its mind. However, it didnt tell Mrs C of this until 
the floor had been lifted. So, when the decision was made to lift the floor, she expected 
Aviva to pay these costs. Aviva couldve changed this expectation by telling her, but it didnt. 
Therefore, I still think Aviva should pay these costs, so Im upholding this complaint. As Mrs 
C has now paid the contractor, I require Aviva to reimburse Mrs C for these costs.
Mrs C wanted higher compensation. With the additional compensation I have awarded, she 
will receive a total of £400 for distress and inconvenience. This is a large award for our 
service to give, and whilst I appreciate she has experienced significant problems during 
these events, I think this is a reasonable amount and in line with what our service would 
normally award in compensation. So, Im not going to change this award.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs 
C:
The cost of lifting the floor - £625
£150 additional compensation  for distress and inconvenience
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman