DRN-3302440
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the outcome of her complaint following a claim against Shawbrook 
Bank Limited under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some mis-
sold solar panels.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background to this complaint. So, I wont set it out in detail 
here. In summary, Miss M bought a solar panel system and some other energy efficient 
devices from a supplier, G, using a fixed term loan provided by Shawbrook. The system cost 
around £11,500. With interest, the total amount payable over 15 years was about £22,300.
Miss M is represented by solicitors. They set out her claim in detail to Shawbrook who 
accepted that the benefits of the system had more likely than not been misrepresented to 
Miss M by G. But it didnt initially accept Miss Ms concerns that the fitting was poor. 
Shawbrook offered to make Miss Ms loan self-funding. That means she wouldnt pay 
anything more for the system than the benefits that she would likely receive over the term of 
the loan. It calculated these to be around £13,000 and so it offered to reduce her loan 
accordingly, not charge any further interest and let Miss M keep the panels. It also offered 
her £200 for the distress and convenience shed experienced.
Miss M didnt accept the offer. She wanted the panels removed and her money returned. 
During the course of this complaint, some tiles fell from Miss Ms roof. Shawbrook inspected 
the roof and its contractor recommended that the panels be removed, the roof fixed and then 
the panels put back.
Miss Ms solicitors had said in their original letter of claim that they were concerned that the 
panels hadnt been fitted correctly. So, it still thought that the panels should be removed 
entirely, and Miss Ms money returned.
Our investigator thought that Shawbrooks offer to make the loan self-funding and to fix the 
roof was fair. Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but Im afraid that I agree with our investigator that 
Shawbrooks offer amounts to fair compensation. Ill explain why below.
I completely appreciate Miss Ms concerns about the panels. Shes experienced some falling 
tiles and is worried that the panels have been fitted incorrectly. I share those concerns. But 
that doesnt mean that it would necessarily be fair for me to require that Shawbrook remove 
the panels entirely and give Ms M all her money back.
In this case, the parties have accepted that the benefits of the system were more likely than 
not misrepresented to Miss M by Gs representative. So, I dont need to consider that in this 
decision. Miss Ms solicitors also raised her claim with Shawbrook on a number of other 
alternative legal bases. These include, amongst other things, that there was an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Act, that the panels werent fit for purpose, and that 
there has been a breach of the Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. For all of those reasons, 
the solicitors say that Miss M should be entitled to a full unwind of her purchase.
Miss Ms solicitors will be aware that rather than a Court, we are an alternative dispute 
resolution service. We deal with things more informally than a court would. When looking 
into solar panel complaints, where the parties accept that there has been a mis-sale, we 
generally wont conduct a legal analysis of all the grounds upon which a party has brought 
their claim. Thats not often necessary in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
What we do look to do though is to determine whether the compensation offered for the loss 
that that the customer has suffered is fair and reasonable, taking into account all of the 
arguments made.
So, whilst I wont be conducting a legal analysis of each of the individual points that Miss Ms 
solicitors have made in their letter of claim, Miss M should be assured that I have taken them 
all into account in making my determination as to what amounts to fair compensation here.
I appreciate that Miss M remains worried about the fitting of her panels. And given that some 
tiles have fallen, this isnt surprising. But weve not been provided with any expert report 
identifying any inherent problem with the system itself. Shawbrooks contractor says that it 
can repair the roof and put the panels back safely. And I have no reason to doubt thats 
possible. But I will say that in carrying out that work, I also think that the contractor should 
check that the system is safe and has been fitted in accordance with the regulations and 
best practice in place at the time that the panels were originally fitted in 2013. If any changes 
are required, then those can be carried out whilst the panels are down and the scaffolding is 
in place. That way Miss Ms fears will hopefully be allayed.
Determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. Miss M would like the panels removed 
and her money paid back. But I think that would be disproportionate. The panels and the rest 
of the system appear to be working correctly, although the fitting of course needs to be 
checked and the roof repaired. I appreciate that Miss Ms solicitors are concerned about the 
quality of the work that may be done. Although just because another of their clients has had 
some problems, isnt a reason for me to think that a bad job will be done on Miss Ms 
property as well. Shawbrook will need to take responsibility for any work done by its 
contractor. So, Miss M will have an avenue of recourse in the unlikely event there are any 
further problems.
If the panels are to remain, Miss M will continue to benefit from them for the remainder of 
their life. And the savings should continue after the loan is paid off. I know that shes worried 
about future maintenance costs, including the likely need for a new inverter at some point in 
the systems lifetime. But I think that with the loan being made self-funding, so that Miss M 
pays no more than the benefits shell get from it in terms of Feed-in-Tariff (FIT), export 
payments and electricity bill savings, she should ultimately end up with additional savings 
that can be put toward any maintenance costs.
Miss Ms solicitors have said that the panels may not be performing at their expected rate of 
generation. Its estimated that they are under-performing by 9.77%. In calculating its offer, I 
will expect Shawbrook to use the actual generation figures from Miss Ms FIT statements if 
her solicitors are to make these available. In that way, any underperformance should be 
picked up in the calculations and Miss M will not be disadvantaged by it. The expected 
performance of solar panel systems is always just an estimate. And I wouldnt consider a 
small deviation from those expectations to be something unusual that would warrant compensation, other than in the way that Ive provided.
In its original offer, Shawbrook said it would pay Miss M interest on the overpayments. It 
initially limited this to 28 days from the offer, although its subsequent offer made no 
reference to this. Im satisfied that this isnt a case where Miss M has drawn the process out 
to get more interest. And indeed, since the complaint came to us, Shawbrook has also 
changed its offer to include fixing the roof. So, I think interest should be paid from the date 
that the overpayments were made until theyre effectively repaid. This will compensate Miss 
M for the time that shes not had the use of that money.
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited has made an offer to settle this complaint that I consider amounts 
to fair compensation. I require that Shawbrook Bank limited:
Recalculate the loan so that Miss M pays no more than the known and assumed 
savings and income that she will receive from the panels over the 15-year term;
Allow Miss M to keep the solar panels and other energy saving devices;
Arrange for the panels and Miss Ms roof to be repaired. In carrying out this work, 
Shawbrooks contractor should be asked to check that the system has been fitted in 
accordance with any regulations and best practice in place when the system was 
originally fitted and make any changes necessary in order to confirm that the system 
is safe to use.
Calculate any overpayments made by Miss M and apply or repay those depending 
on which of the options below that she chooses;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid;
Pay Miss M £200 for the distress and inconvenience that she has been caused;
Arrange for the removal of any negative entries on Miss Ms records with credit 
reference agencies that may have been reported for this loan; and
Give Miss M the following options about how she would like her overpayments to be 
used:
a) The overpayments, interest and any other payments shes made are used to 
reduce the recalculated loan balance and Miss M will continue to pay her 
existing monthly instalments over a reduced period until the loan is repaid;
b) The overpayments, interest and any other payments that shes made are 
used to reduce the recalculated loan balance and Miss M will continue to pay 
lower monthly instalments over the remainder of the original term of the loan 
until its repaid
c) The overpayments and interest are paid to Miss M and shell then repay the 
outstanding recalculated loan balance by making the original monthly loan 
repayments for a reduced length of time; or
d) The overpayments and interest are paid to Miss M and shell then repay the 
outstanding recalculated loan balance by making a reduced monthly loan repayment for the balance of the original loan term.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Miss M request it, Shawbrook should give her a certificate showing how much tax 
has been taken off so that she may reclaim it if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman