DRN-3962606
The complaint
Mr A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly blocked and then closed his account. He 
says this affected his wellbeing and caused him inconvenience. He wants the account 
reopened and compensation. He also wants to ensure no negative information is recorded 
externally against him by Barclays.
What happened
Mr A held a current account with Barclays. In late January 2021 a sizeable payment was 
sent to his account, which Barclays decided to review. It held the payment funds in a sundry 
account and completed the review in early February 2021, releasing the funds to Mr As 
account. Barclays then provided Mr A with notice that his account would close.
Mr A was unhappy about not having access to the payment and his account closing. He 
wanted to know Barclays reasons.
Barclays said it could hold the payment funds to carry out a review, the account was closed 
in line with the terms of his account, and it didnt need to tell Mr A why it had taken these 
actions. It also says it hadnt recorded a marker against him as a result of the closure
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They found:
Barclays held the payment funds while carrying out a review in line with its regulatory 
obligations. The review completed in a timely manner and there wasnt an undue 
delay in releasing the funds to Mr A.
Barclays hadnt blocked Mr As access to the remaining funds in his account during 
the review. Mr As account statements showed transactional activity during the 
review. So, the inconvenience he experienced was minimized.
Barclays could close his account, and it didnt need to tell Mr A why. The account 
was closed with the correct notice period, and Mr A had other bank accounts he 
could use, so the impact of the closure was minimal.
Barclays explained in its final response letter that it hadnt recorded negative markers 
against Mr A. There was no evidence to show this wasnt true
Mr A disagreed with the outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. As a 
result, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Mr A said our investigator hadnt addressed his unhappiness about Barclays sending him six 
years worth of statements in February 2022. Barclays didnt consider this point in its final 
response letter, and it says Mr A hadnt raised it when the complaint was started. 
I cant see evidence to show Mr A made this point to our service until receiving our 
investigators view in January 2023, so Im not persuaded it was part of the original 
complaint he asked us to consider. However, Barclays is now investigating Mr As 
unhappiness about the statements under a separate complaint. If Mr A is dissatisfied with 
Barclays response, he may wish to refer that complaint to our service. But to be clear, I am 
not considering what happened in relation to Mr As statements in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why:
Barclays has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, 
verify their sources of income, and where possible to detect and prevent financial crime.
Barclays will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review, either by blocking an 
account or by temporarily removing funds (which is what Barclays did here) - doing so helps 
prevent potential harm that might otherwise result.
Barclays isnt obliged to reveal its reason(s) for reviewing Mr As account. But I have 
considered the basis of its review, and it was done in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. Im further satisfied its basis for withholding the payment funds was 
understandable.
Barclays must also ensure it carries out and concludes a review reasonably and without 
unnecessary delay. Having considered all the available information, I find Barclays 
completed its review promptly and released the payment funds back to Mr A as soon as it 
should have. 
Barclays says Mr As account wasnt blocked during the time he couldnt access the 
payment funds. I havent seen evidence to contradict this. I also note his account appears to 
have been primarily used for betting related transactions and he appears to have held other 
accounts. So, Im not persuaded he couldnt have continued to carry out these kinds of 
transactions elsewhere during the time his funds were held.
Barclays has the commercial discretion to end a relationship with a customer and it doesnt 
have to tell its customer why. I have however considered the basis of Barclays decision, and 
it was within the bounds of its discretion. So, I dont find it did anything wrong by choosing to 
close Mr As account. 
Barclays must also abide by its terms and conditions when closing an account. I find it did 
here by providing Mr A with the correct notice period before the account would close. 
I was sorry to hear Mr A was caused worry and excessive stress by not being able to access 
the payment funds and because his account was closed. But as I find Barclays acted fairly in 
the circumstances of his complaint, I am not directing them to award him compensation or to 
reopen his account. I also havent seen evidence to show they recorded negative markers 
regarding Mr A in relation to their actions.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for the reasons I have given aboveUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman