DRN-3018347
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) declined his claim.
What happened
Mr L has a group income protection policy with AGS provided by his employer. In March 
2019 he was recovering from a surgical procedure. He said he had been working long hours 
under extreme pressure so when he was off reflecting on his workplace he began to develop 
symptoms of stress and anxiety. 
Mr L visited his GP and was signed off work. During Mr Ls absence a formal internal review 
took place which identified unacceptable workplace practices. Mr L said corrective actions 
were completed to prevent this happening again which reassured him. He commenced a 
phased return to work on 16 April 2020.
AGS declined cover for his absence because they said there wasnt enough medical 
evidence to support that Mr L was incapacitated due to an illness. 
Mr L provided evidence to show his GP has said he was unfit for work throughout his period 
of absence. AGS reviewed the claim again but maintained its decision to decline cover. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened, and she said she thought AGS had been fair 
to decline the claim because the evidence said it was work related stress which wasnt an 
illness. 
Dr L didnt agree. In summary he said workplace stress was a medical condition and 
provided a letter from his line manager confirming his inability to carry out the material and 
substantial duties of his role. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AGS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably.
The definition of incapacity under the policy is:
as a result of illness or injury, the member is incapable of performing the material and 
substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other work or 
occupation.
Material and substantial is defined as:
duties that are normally required for performance of a Members occupation and cannot 
reasonably be omitted or modified by their Employer.
Its well documented throughout the medical evidence that Mr L was under excessive 
pressure at work. Hes made reference to a conflict with senior management and said his 
workload had increased significantly which had made him feel unwell. 
Having reviewed everything, I think its understandable that the long hours and volume of 
work described in this case caused Mr L significant symptoms of stress. Although stress is 
not an illness, it can have both physical and mental symptoms. 
The Occupational Health specialist cites Mr Ls symptoms as the result of abnormal and 
excessive pressure in his work. She recommends that a formal work stress risk assessment 
should take place to establish if the parameters of Mr Ls role are reasonable. Then, after 
considering the findings of this risk assessment, she records a case of work-stress related 
illness.
Mr L said during his absence an internal investigation was carried out at his company which 
identified unacceptable workplace practices so corrective actions were completed to prevent 
this happening again. Mr L said he was reassured by this formal internal review and he then 
begun his phased return to work. This shows that the barrier to Mr Ls return to work had 
been workplace practices and once these had been resolved he was able to return. So, I 
think it was reasonable for AGS to say the unreasonable pressure at work is what caused Mr 
L to become unwell. And this was why he was unable to work.
The evidence suggests the adjustments made by his employer would have helped Mr L 
return to work sooner than he did. And this isnt covered by the policy.
However, I also note the vocational rehab specialist asked Mr L if an alternative role was 
available immediately if hed feel able to return to work. Mr L said his low mood and anxiety 
were also a barrier at the present time, but he was hopeful treatment would address this. So 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ls anxiety symptoms and the treatment he received for this, 
to decide if Mr Ls symptoms had developed into a mental health condition  as this may be 
covered by the policy.  
It is regularly reported that Mr Ls symptoms of anxiety all occur before one of his regular 
calls with his employer or when he thinks about his time off or his return. Mr L says 
throughout his submissions that when he thought about returning to work, he felt distressed, 
anxious and would panic. But I havent seen any evidence of anything else triggering his 
anxiety. 
The vocational rehabilitation specialist said the ongoing uncertainty regarding adjustments in 
the workplace to support Mr Ls return to work are likely to be perpetuating his symptoms 
and could prevent psychological therapy working. She also reminds his employer that an 
undue delay in dealing with perceived work-related stressors can result in an exacerbation of 
symptoms. 
Taken all of this into account Im persuaded Mr Ls symptoms of anxiety were overcome by 
adjustments in the workplace to alleviate the pressure he was under. This reassured Mr L 
which reduced his anxious feelings. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AGS to conclude 
Mr L wasnt suffering from a mental health condition. 
Ive considered the additional evidence provided by Mr L, but Im still persuaded the 
evidence shows work-related pressure was the cause of Mr Ls stress and inability to work. I 
think its most likely Mr L wouldve been capable of working and fulfilling the material duties of 
his occupation, had he not felt under so much pressure from his employer. As such, Im 
satisfied AGS declined this claim fairly because Mr L did not meet the policy terms.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman