DRN-2937557
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined a repayment holiday 
request he had made on his loan. He also says Halifax did not provide him with the relevant 
information needed to make an informed choice when requesting a repayment holiday.
What happened
In 2015, Mr T took out a personal loan with Halifax. As part of the loan terms, he was able to 
ask for a repayment holiday if he met criteria which was advertised on Halifaxs website and 
banking app. If eligible, it would have extended the length of his loan and he would have 
continued to be charged interest on the outstanding balance during the repayment holiday, 
resulting in paying more interest overall.
Over the term of the loan, Mr T requested several repayment holidays by meeting the criteria 
online and these requests were accepted by Halifax.
In 2020, Mr T requested a further repayment holiday and it was declined by Halifax. Mr T 
complained and Halifax responded, saying among other things, that the holiday was 
declined as Mr Ts loan reached the maximum term it can be extended to.
Mr T, unhappy with Halifaxs response, brought his complaint to our service. He believes that 
he wasnt made aware that a loan couldnt be extended past a maximum term. And that, had 
he known about it, he would not have requested repayment holidays previously. He believes 
Halifaxs information they provided about repayment holidays and confirmation of successful 
holiday requests to be misleading as they didnt offer vital information for him to make an 
informed decision. Mr T was also unhappy as he feels Halifax didnt complete a thorough 
investigation into his complaint points.
During our services involvement, Halifax completed a further review of Mr Ts complaint and 
explained that granting a repayment holiday to Mr T was not guaranteed and is at their 
discretion. They also say they reviewed their terms listed on their website and are satisfied 
with the information published.
The investigator in her findings didnt believe Halifax needed to do anything further. She 
found that Halifax had applied their terms fairly and that the information they provided about 
repayment holidays didnt suggest that it would be approved if Mr T met the criteria available 
on its website, but rather that it would be subject to approval. The investigator also found it 
reasonable that Halifax would have processes in place to ensure Mr T couldnt extend his 
loan and interest payable on it to go over a maximum term. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators findings and believe Halifax didnt investigate his 
concerns thoroughly enough when he first raised a complaint with them. He also believes, 
among other things, that the information provided on Halifaxs website does not clearly draw 
attention to any limitation of repayment holidays being allowed subject to a maximum term 
amount.
The investigator responded to Mr Ts further points, explaining Halifax completed a further 
review of his complaint during our involvement in the complaint. She went onto explain that 
from the information she had seen, she believes Halifax had acted reasonably and in line 
with their terms and conditions.
Mr T has requested his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He remains unhappy 
that Halifax didnt address his complaint fully in the first instance, and only had done so after 
he brought his complaint to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Firstly, I need to be satisfied whether Halifax declined Mr Ts repayment holiday in line with 
their terms and conditions. And I also need to be satisfied the information about repayment 
holidays was made clear to Mr T. So, Ive reviewed the terms of the loan as well as 
information Mr T provided which he says he relied on about repayment holidays.
Section 3.4 of Mr Ts loan terms states:
We may in future tell you that you can take a payment holiday and how long it will be. You 
need not make your normal payments during the holiday but we will continue to charge 
interest on your balance. So you will pay us more interest overall; the length of your loan will 
increase and so may the number of repayments. We will give you details before you take the 
holiday.
Mr T sent us a screenshot from his banking app with Halifax. I have noted the phrases 
Halifax used in their communication to Mr T. Phrases such as to request a repayment 
holiday and If you are eligible for a repayment holiday were used.
I appreciate Mr Ts comments that not all eligibility criteria are listed in Halifaxs 
communication. But I think its clear from the wording on the app that the criteria listed are 
whats required to request a payment holiday. This is followed by the option to check 
eligibility. So, I dont think that Halifax has provided information to mislead Mr T into 
believing that he was guaranteed to be accepted for a repayment holiday if he met the 
criteria he was given.
Mr T believes had he known that repayment holidays may be subject to a loan reaching the 
maximum term it can be extended to, he could have made an informed decision on whether 
to take previous repayment holidays. He says that Halifax didnt previously tell him he was 
nearing any such limit.
Halifax explained to our service that a request for a repayment holiday will only be assessed 
once a customer makes one. And as they cant be sure when a request will be made, they 
cant give a prior indication when a customer is nearing their limit. They also believe their 
documentation to be clear in that a repayment holiday is not guaranteed.
Halifax may not have told Mr T that repayment holidays may be subject to a loan reaching 
the maximum term it can be extended to. But I dont think they had to. I cant see that their terms suggest they need to share this information and Im also satisfied they have provided 
clear information to show any repayment holiday request isnt guaranteed.
I acknowledge Halifax didnt address all of Mr Ts complaint points initially. But they did 
respond during our involvement and provide him with their answer. As Mr T remained 
unhappy, this complaint was eventually referred to me to decide on. And as Ive already 
explained, Im satisfied Halifax has correctly relied on their terms in declining Mr Ts 
repayment holiday request, and with the information they provided to him. So, his comments 
regarding this havent made a difference to the conclusions Ive reached. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint and wont be asking Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman