DRN-2844486
The complaint
This complaints about an application for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage that Miss K and Mr L 
made to HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Miss K 
and Mr L being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr L and Mrs K already had a residential mortgage with HSBC. They took out another 
mortgage to buy another home, and arranged for the existing property to be rented out. They 
then applied for a BTL to repay the original mortgage and were turned down. Theyve since 
obtained a BTL mortgage from another lender and complained to HSBC. HSBC apologised 
for the way it handled the application and offered compensation, which Miss K and Mr L 
have accepted. But they remain unhappy with the reason HSBC gave for not lending; that 
being that their rental income was too low.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function here; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (not 
the Prudential Regulation Authority as Mr L has suggested). Nor are we a consumer 
protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal alternative to the 
courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From reading all of Mr Ls emails, the impression I get is that he believes HSBC is hiding 
behind regulation to justify turning down (on affordability grounds) a mortgage than would 
have cost less per month than the one he and Ms K already had. Actually, its more 
straightforward than that.
When HSBC assessed the BTL application, it had no reason to consider how much Miss K 
and Mr L were already paying on the mortgage the BTL was intended to replace. That 
mortgage had been assessed for affordability in its own right, as a regulated residential 
mortgage, when it was taken out. HSBCs lending criteria for BTL mortgages bear no 
resemblance to its lending criteria for residential mortgages, so the comparison between the 
monthly cost of the two wouldnt have been a relevant factor in the underwriting decision for 
the BTL application.
HSBC wasnt obliged to grant the BTL; all it was obliged to do was to apply its BTL lending 
policy consistently and fairly when assessing the application. Im satisfied it did that. HSBCs 
BTL lending policy doesnt allow it to include the wider range of income sources that can be 
considered for a residential mortgage. 
The only income source that HSBC takes into account for a BTL application is the rental 
income, and HSBC concluded that the rent Miss K and Mr L were receiving from their tenant 
wasnt enough to support the mortgage theyd applied for. That was HSBCs commercial 
judgement to exercise; and its not appropriate for me to substitute a different judgement in 
its place.
That another lender did agree to lend Miss K and Mr L the money they wanted doesnt 
invalidate HSBCs commercial judgement; it merely reflects the fact that different lenders 
have different lending criteria. Thats normal in a healthy competitive market environment. All 
lenders have their own lending criteria and appetite for risk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman