DRN-2150842
The complaint
Mr M complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance (Direct Line) 
refused to pay his motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr M took out a car insurance policy with Direct Line in November 2016. Shortly after Mr M 
notified Direct Line about an incident he said occurred the previous day. He said hed hit the 
rear of a third-party vehicle and that it was his fault. He also said that his son was a 
passenger in the vehicle at the time and sought medical attention after the incident.
Direct Line declined Mr Ms claim as it wasnt satisfied the accident happened as alleged, if 
at all. And it said the details of what Mr M had told it werent consistent with the details 
provided by other parties, including the third party involved in the accident. Mr M believes its 
unfair that Direct Line as refused to deal with the claim as a result of the third partys actions.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that Direct Line 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim as Mr M hadnt been able to evidence that the 
claim was genuine. Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Direct Line has referred to a fraud term in Mr Ms policy which says it wont pay a claim that 
is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. This is a serious accusation so Direct Line 
should only rely on that term when theres good reason to do so.
In reaching a decision, I havent decided whether the claim was fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated as that isnt my role. Instead, Ive considered whether Direct Line has acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M  including its decision to rely on the policys 
fraud exclusion.
Direct Line doesnt think the damage to Mr Ms vehicle happened in the way he reported it. It 
says Mr M hasnt provided any evidence that he was involved in a genuine accident and that 
both vehicles involved have parts missing, which appears to be an attempt to cover up non-
consistent parts of the damage. Direct Line has explained that the third-party insurer has 
also been unable to establish that a genuine accident took place and that despite both 
parties stating the third party crashed into a lamp post, it hasnt been able to identify any 
damage to it.
Mr M has commented that the version of events and issues found with the third party arent 
relevant to his claim. However, Direct Line is entitled to investigate the validity of the claim  
and in doing so is entitled to consider whether the statements of the parties involved are 
consistent with each other.
During Direct Lines investigation, its agent interviewed Mr M and he was given the 
opportunity to provide his version of events. During the interview, Mr M is recorded to have 
said that the third-party vehicle hit a lamp post, although he has now said that he has no 
recollection of that. Direct Lines agents have investigated this and have found no evidence 
that the lamp post was ever damaged. Mr M also hasnt been able to provide an explanation 
for the fact that his vehicle has parts missing that were relevant to the claim or provide any 
evidence that the accident took place.
Direct Line has explained its concerns to Mr M and given him several opportunities to 
answer these concerns, as Id expect it to. The evidence Ive seen from Direct Line supports 
its view that Mr M hasnt provided it with evidence to support that there was a genuine 
accident. So overall, I dont think Direct Line has acted unfairly in its handling of Mr Ms 
claim. So it follows that I dont think Direct Line needs to take any further action or pay the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman