DRN-3807905
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt return money from its closed 
account and respond to contact about this.
What happened
HSBC decided to close Ns account. The account was due to be closed on 12 December 
2019, but this was delayed until 14 January 2020. HSBC says it sent N a cheque for the 
closing balance on 20 February 2020.
The circumstances relating to the reasons that the account was closed and the delay in 
sending the cheque were addressed in a decision about a previous complaint referred to this 
service. At that time N was paid £200 for the inconvenience caused by the delays in closing 
Ns bank accounts and delays in sending out a cheque for the closing account balance. The 
ombudsman that issued a decision about that also observed that N said that the cheque 
wasnt received and that this is subject to a separate complaint.
This is the matter N has now referred. On 30 September 2021 HSBC had issued a final 
response stating that as it had issued a cheque no bank error had been identified. And that it 
wouldnt be paying interest on the balance before it was refunded as N wanted.
When it submitted its business file to this service it offered to pay N interest from the date it 
had recorded contact from N about this issue to the date of payment. This was from the 
period 2 May 2021 to 23 July 2021  a total it stated of 82 days - and at eight per cent simple 
interest meaning a payment of £215.37. Our investigator also said that it should pay interest 
from the date that the account was due to be closed on 12 December 2019 to the date that 
the cheque was issued on 20 February 2020. HSBC agreed to this but as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Our investigator said that he wouldnt be recommending any further compensation for delays 
given that this had been recognised in the first complaint. 
N didnt agree. It said that wed not considered its complaint point about whether HSBC had 
followed its complaint procedure or not. N didnt think we should be referring to the previous 
complaint. And it thought there were distinct issues here which went past the point that the 
previous complaint considered.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2022. I set that out below.
I said that it was necessary to identify the points the previous complaint considered. That 
doesnt involve reopening it or seeking to go behind it as N suggests. But it is to ensure that I 
didnt make findings on issues that my ombudsman colleague has already dealt with. I was 
clear that all events up to the issue of the cheque on 20 February 2020 were dealt with 
including any delay until then. And so, following that principle I said I wouldnt be looking at 
any interest award for that period either  it is clear that all matters to that date were settled.
The fact that there was the other complaint is also relevant to how this issue with the return 
of funds was dealt with. During the period this service was investigating the earlier complaint 
the issue of the refund of the money had also been raised. N specifically asked that we didnt 
consider that at the time so it could make a separate complaint. And this explains the 
comment I quoted above in the final decision about that. However, it is right, and I thought 
acknowledged by N that this service assisted N in receiving a payment. That wasnt least 
because HSBC stated that its process was to issue a cheque. N stated that its new bank 
couldnt receive a cheque for the amount and so HSBC went outside its process and sent a 
bank transfer.
N has accepted that it didnt have any other bank account until 7 September 2020. It also 
accepted that the cheque might have been lost in the postal system. It says that it tried to 
arrange a switch of the money to its new account, but this didnt work. A key point is that it 
has evidenced its attempts to contact the HSBC customer care team about the money with a 
first email dated 29 December 2020 asking that this matter be resolved. It followed this up 
with emails of 15 and 21 January 2021 saying that it expected interest to be paid and that it 
might otherwise instigate legal proceedings. The first acknowledgment from HSBC of any 
contact was on 2 May 2021 when it said the enquiry had been forwarded to its complaints 
resolution team. That explains why it has offered interest from that date.
Id seen from its complaints file that in June 2021 it made checks as to whether the original 
cheque had been cashed. And as I referred to already went outside process in agreeing to 
make a transfer instead of issuing another cheque having cancelled the original cheque.
At this time HSBC hasnt been able to comment on what happened to the earlier 
correspondence. It may be that as a live complaint about the original issue had already been 
referred to this service it took the view that this was a continuation and would be dealt with 
as part of that complaint when it was investigated. Or maybe that this was overlooked.
N was free to refer a new complaint to us if it hadnt received a response within 8 weeks. In 
the event it did alert this service to the issue. But its clear that while we assisted in resolving 
the issue N didnt then want us to look into the merits of the outcome of that complaint as set 
out above.
I needed to state that complaint handling isnt a separate regulated activity and so I wouldnt 
be reviewing HSBCs compliance with its complaint process. What I could take account of is 
the delay in funds being sent to N when HSBC reasonably became aware of what 
happened, and the inconvenience involved. As I said I wouldnt be looking at what happened 
in the previous complaint. And its clear that N didnt have an active bank account until 
September 2020 to receive the money whether or not the cheque was lost in the postal 
system. Although N says that its correspondence in December 2020 was a complaint, it was 
really telling HSBC that it wanted the money and that the cheque had gone missing. In any 
event Id have expected this to have been looked into then. I was unclear what happened 
between January and May 2021 and whether N attempted further contact. I knew that the 
director stressed the impact on N of not having this money and I said I would reasonably 
have expected mitigating actions to be taken or further contact to ensure that this was picked 
up.
Putting things right
I considered that HSBC should fairly pay N simple interest of eight percent per annum from 29 December 2020 (the date it notified HSBC) to 23 July 2021 (the date it received the 
payment) inclusive on the funds involved of £11,983.48. This reflects that it was deprived of 
the money and had requested HSBC to deal with this.
I appreciated that N wanted to claim at least nine hours of its directors time at professional 
rates and possibly more by now in writing to both HSBC and this service about this 
complaint. I made a couple of points about that. First we tend to look at matters overall and 
not to make awards for units of time. And second we wouldnt generally apply professional 
rates or consider whats involved in referring a complaint to this service as we provide free 
and informal dispute resolution. 
Taking those points into account I also considered HSBC should pay N £200 for the 
inconvenience caused by not responding to the request for the money from December 2020 
onwards.  
On the complaint handling point as Id already said that this isnt a regulated area. And N 
made clear to this service that it didnt want us to deal with a complaint that it felt HSBC 
wasnt looking at  and combine it with the original complaint - even though on one view it 
was linked and could perhaps have been included. In any event N wanted HSBC to issue a 
final response and then refer things to us. Frankly any extra time thats been involved as a 
result is really down to the way N wanted this to be approached. And Id reflected what 
wasnt done by HSBC after December 2020. So, Id considered the ancillary implications of 
the time it took for N to receive the money and what was involved and how HSBC responded 
in my assessment above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it was prepared to accept my provisional decision. It pointed out that it now 
wasnt issuing cheques and would need Ns bank details for settlement.
N provided some further information and documents and asked that I take these into 
account. It provided screenshots to show that HSBC had rejected an account switch/ 
transfer request. And so, it wanted me to consider awarding interest from 22 September 
2020. N said that it had made a number of calls to HSBC between then and December 2020 
about the balance on the account. It accepts it doesnt have any documentation to show this. 
But that by December 2020 it had sent an email to create a paper trail for possible legal 
action. N said that it tried to open a new account with HSBC between January and March 
2021 which was a frustrating process. As a result, it didnt want to jeopardise that. N has 
sent an email chain between it and a member of HSBC about a possible new account. I note 
that this is actually relating to the period of March to April 2020 but dont rule out it may have 
attempted this again.
In terms of the awards it asked me to consider the amount in the account as a commercial 
debt and so apply government guidelines of paying interest at Bank Base Rate plus eight per 
cent. In terms of compensation it referred to our published guidelines and said that an award 
of between £300 and £750 would be warranted to reflect the distress, inconvenience, 
disruption and efforts we expended in trying to resolve this before approaching FOS for 
help.I have considered this further information. The account at HSBC was closed and so a switch/ 
transfer request which I accept was attempted would have failed. And as far as HSBC was 
concerned it had issued a closing cheque for the balance.
While N may have been in touch with HSBC in the months after that there is no record of 
this. Ive carefully noted its email to HSBC of 29 December 2020. N doesnt for example 
refer to an ongoing series of earlier calls about this matter. So, Im afraid I think it fair that I 
award interest from this date when it made the position clear to HSBC.  While I note that at 
one time N had indicated it might take legal action it didnt do so. And it seems that it may 
have decided not to take any further action until May 2021 based on its most recent 
submissions in any event. 
We typically award simple interest of eight percent per annum to reflect a business being 
deprived of money. Thats where there isnt for example any specific financial loss identified 
to award instead. And I remain of the view that this is fair here. I dont see that N had been 
issuing demands with statutory interest to HSBC and if it wants to adopt a legal process and 
not accept my assessment it remains free to do so subject to any relevant time limits.
I set out in my provisional decision that N wanted this issue dealt with separately as a 
complaint and to pursue this with HSBC first. The complainant here is a limited company and 
cant suffer distress and I cant take the personal distress of the director into account. Ive set 
out what I thought in my provisional decision about the time the director says he has spent 
on this for N. And the extent to which it seems N needed to take any mitigating action when 
it didnt have this money. Having balanced these factors I remain of the view that a payment 
of £200 is reasonable here for the inconvenience - with as I say the impact and potential 
disruption of not having the money already accounted for in the award of interest.
I know the director of N will be disappointed that in conclusion I havent decided to change 
the level and nature of my provisional decision about compensation for the reasons Ive 
given here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1) Pay N simple interest of eight percent per annum on £11,983.48 from 29 December 
2020 to 23 July 2021 inclusive.2) Pay N compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman