DRN-3394627
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly 
registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs M says she was in financial difficulties in 2019 and made the decision to sell her home 
to raise money. She says she told her five credit card companies what was happening and 
all but Tesco agreed short term plans without registering a default on her credit file. Mrs M 
says Tesco registered a default on her credit file despite her repaying the debt in full in 
February 2020 and despite agreeing a repayment plan with her. She would like it removed 
and says it is adversely affecting her.
Tesco says it hasnt made a mistake and says Mrs M contacted it in September 2019. It says 
Mrs M told it she was on a Debt Management Plan (DMP) and in those circumstances 
correctly registered a default in December 2019. Tesco says it has told the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) that the balance has been cleared but says its obliged to accurately 
report information to it. It says it told Mrs M the account would default in letters and when 
she called it.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) recommended a default be registered between 
three and six months of arrears and that Mrs M only missed one payment before clearing the 
balance. The investigator didnt think Mrs M understood that the account would default 
having been told she was on a repayment plan.
Mrs M accepts that view, but Tesco doesnt. It says the DMP started in November 2019 and 
it correctly registered a default the following month. It also says the balance was paid off 
after about five months of arrears and so it acted in line with ICO guidance. Tesco says it 
would be irresponsible to remove the default and says it helped Mrs M by registering the 
default when it did as it will drop off her credit file sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint for the reasons I 
will explain.
A default should be registered by a lender when a relationship between the parties has 
broken down. The ICO provides further guidance about arrears and suggests a default 
should be registered between three and six months of arrears.
There is no dispute here that Mrs M was in financial difficulties in September 2019.And that 
she told Tesco about them as well as making clear that she wanted to avoid a default and 
that she was in the process of selling her home to repay her debts. Im satisfied that Mrs M 
was open and up front with Tesco at that stage. I would have expected Tesco to act 
positively and sympathetically to Mrs M in those circumstances and can see that it agreed a 
short-term plan with her. I accept that Mrs M was told that a long-term plan would result in a 
default. But equally I think Mrs M was reasonably entitled to conclude that a six-month 
agreement was not a long-term plan and accept that she thought in those circumstances she 
could ignore the default letters.
I appreciate Tesco says Mrs M had no idea when her home would be sold. But I can see 
on Tesco records that Mrs M told it she hoped to repay the debt by January 2020. I can also 
see that Mrs M made a number of calls to Tesco about her position and made all but one 
required payment until February 2020 when she repaid the debt in full.
So, Im satisfied that the relationship between Tesco and Mrs M hadnt broken down. Im 
also satisfied there was a short-term agreement in place and required payments were largely 
made. I also think Tesco was told that Mrs Ms home would be sold and that she would 
repay the debt in full which she did. It follows that I dont think registering a default provided 
an accurate reflection of what took place and contrast that with a customer that didnt make 
any payments over a period of time and made no contact with a lender. I appreciate no two 
cases are the same but am satisfied that the ICO guidance hasnt been followed here.
I accept that Mrs M was confused about the agreement but that she was told the account 
would default. I have made clear that I dont think that step ought to have been taken and do 
not agree with Tesco that it would be irresponsible to remove the default. I think that Tesco 
could have told the CRAs that Mrs M was on a short-term repayment plan and that would 
have accurately reflected the position. 
Putting things right
Tesco should remove the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to remove the default it registered on Mrs Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman