DRN-2487007
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma was 
irresponsible in its lending to her 
What happened
Mrs C was provided with a loan for £800 by Satsuma in August 2018. The loan was 
repayable over six monthly instalments of around £253 each.
Mrs C says that the loan was irresponsibly lent. She said that Satsuma didnt carry out 
sufficient checks to ensure she could afford to repay the loan and that her credit file and 
bank statements showed it wasnt affordable. She says the loan resulted in her entering a 
spiral of debt.
Satsuma says that all applications go through credit and affordability checks. These include 
a credit risk assessment based on internal scorecards incorporating credit bureau data and 
an affordability assessment based on the information provided by the consumer and other 
external data. It says that based on its assessment the loan was affordable to Mrs C.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that based on the loan amount, what 
was apparent about her circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, it wouldnt 
be proportionate to say that Satsuma was required to ask for the information required to 
show the loan was unsustainable.
Mrs C didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said that she underestimated her expenses 
in order to receive the loan and that had the information been verified this would have been 
realised. She said that if adequate checks had been carried out Satsuma would have seen 
she couldnt afford the loan and she noted that she was in an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA) at the time of the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs C could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C was provided with one loan by Satsuma and I have considered the checks that were 
carried out in this context. Before the loan was provided information about Mrs Cs income 
and expenses was gathered. I note Mrs Cs comments about underestimating the expenses, 
but I do not find it unreasonable (as this was the first loan) that Satsuma would have relied 
on the information she had provided - subject to this not raising concerns. Having looked 
through the income and expenses information I do not find this should have raised concerns 
that would have required further investigation and I note the additional checks Satsuma 
undertook to ensure the expenses were reasonable. 
Mrs C has explained that she was in an IVA at the time of the loan and that her credit file 
showed that she wouldnt be able to afford the repayments. While I note the points she has 
made, I must consider whether the checks carried out by Satsuma were proportionate and 
whether based on these checks it was reasonable for the loan to be provided. Satsuma has 
explained that it checked Mrs Cs income and expenses and while credit information is noted 
it appears this check was to ensure the income and expenses information was reasonable. I 
havent seen further details of the results of Satsumas credit checks and therefore I cant 
say if it was aware of the IVA.
Even if the IVA did show on Satsumas credit checks, I have considered whether this meant 
the loan shouldnt have been provided. It would need to be taken into account but as the IVA 
was entered in June 2014, more than four years before this loan was provided I do not find 
that this alone meant the loan shouldnt have been provided. Overall, while I can understand why Mrs C says the loan shouldnt have been provided, in 
this case I find the checks carried out by Satsuma were reasonable as this was the first loan. 
These checks suggested the loan was affordable and while I appreciate the additional 
information Mrs C has provided regarding her situation, in this case I do not find that I have 
enough to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided and so I do not find I can uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman