DRN-4113805
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs T are unhappy that Switch Health Limited mis-sold them a private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs T (and their son) had the benefit of a group private medical insurance policy 
(underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A1) through Mrs Ts employer - up until Mrs T left 
her employment in 2020. 
At the same time as making enquiries with A1 about continuing cover with them on the basis 
that medical history will be disregarded and a new business quote, Mrs T contacted Switch 
Health about other options available. 
After asking Mrs T questions about her and her familys medical history during an initial call, 
Switch Health found a medical insurance policy underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A2. 
Some of the features were discussed with Mrs T during a second call, such as the price and 
main benefits. Mrs T was informed that no exclusions would be included.
Later in the second call, Switch Healths representative asked some further risk filter 
questions about Mrs Ts and her familys health  which were similar to the questions asked 
during the initial call. This time, Mrs T declared that her son had been in hospital overnight 
earlier in 2020 with croup. However, he was discharged the next day without medication. 
The representative said theyd add it to the list of medical conditions.
Mr M and Mrs T ended up buying the policy underwritten by A2. However, it transpired that 
on inception of the policy, A2 included an exclusion that theyd be no benefit payable for any 
investigations and treatment relating to Mr M and Mrs Ts sons croup.
Mr M and Mrs T then switched to a medical insurance policy underwritten by A1 in 2021, 
again on a continuation basis, via Switch Health. During the period of this policy, Mr M and 
Mrs Ts son required treatment for croup. It was then they became aware of the exclusion 
that was added in 2020 by A2 - which was also carried over and added by A1 in 2021 when 
switching cover  as treatment wasnt covered.
Mr M and Mrs T complained to Switch Health. Switch Health said they made clients aware of 
any possible exclusions over the phone wherever possible and they didnt do this here. So, 
they offered £300 to Mr M and Mrs T to cover the cost of the initial consultation in relation to 
their sons croup. 
Unhappy, Mr M and Mrs T complained to our Service. Our investigator concluded that 
Switch Healths offer was fair and didnt recommend anything else needed to be done in this 
case. Mr M and Mrs T disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Switch Health recommended the policy underwritten by A2 to Mr M and Mrs T. So, it had an 
obligation to ensure that it was suitable for their familys needs. It also had an obligation to 
ensure that Mr M and Mrs T were given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
main terms of the policy.
Even if I concluded that the croup exclusion added for Mr M and Mrs Ts son meant that the 
policy underwritten by A2 in 2020 may not be entirely suitable for their familys needs  I 
have to consider whats most likely to have happened if they were advised of this before 
entering into the policy. And, also, what if theyd been told about the croup exclusion.
Mr M and Mrs T say they probably wouldve taken a policy underwritten by A1 as they 
wouldve continued to be covered on the basis that medical history would be disregarded.
Mrs T says that shes more recently contacted A1, and its confirmed that it wouldve offered 
Mr M and Mrs T (and their son) continuation of cover at the time, without any exclusion for 
croup. As there had been no ongoing investigation for croup, its a common childhood illness 
and there had been no claims made on the group policy for croup, the premium wouldnt 
have increased just because croup had been declared. This seems plausible and Im 
prepared to accept what Mrs T says about this.
However, Mrs T has also said that A1 hasnt been able to confirm what premium she 
wouldve been quoted by A1 when transferring from a group policy to a personal policy on a 
continuation basis, disregarding medical history.
During a call with Switch Healths representative in September 2020, shes asked whether 
shes received a quote from A1 and she says A1 had tried to call her, but she hadnt yet 
returned the call. She also says that she believes any quote would be higher than the one 
Switch Health had quoted for the policy underwritten by A2. Im satisfied this was within the 
budget shed set during the initial call.
In my experience, switching from a group medical insurance policy to a personal medical 
insurance policy on a continuation basis, with the same underwriter, does usually result in a 
higher premium being paid. And although the premium paid for the policy taken out in 2021  
underwritten by A1  is not much more than the premium Mrs T was paying for her family to 
have the benefit of the group policy (also underwritten by A1), that doesnt mean the 
premium wouldve been similar in 2020 had she continued with a personal insurance policy 
then. There are many variables and the price quoted in 2021 was based on switching from 
A2 then. So, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded a policy with A1 wouldve 
been cheaper in 2020.
Theres also nothing to support that there wouldve been another private health insurance 
policy at the time which Switch Health couldve offered Mr M and Mrs T if it had checked with 
A2 in 2020 whether the information provided by Mrs T about her sons croup made a 
difference to the terms that had been offered before being aware of that information. 
So, Ive thought very carefully about whether Mr M and Mrs T wouldve still proceeded with 
the policy underwritten by A2 if theyd been advised about possible croup exclusion and 
been given information about this by Switch Health over the phone (which it accepts it 
shouldve in this case).
Mr M and Mrs T were happy with the other features of the policy sold to them (including the 
price which from listening to the calls seems to have been an important factor) theyd agreed 
to take it out. And any issues relating to their sons other pre-existing medical issues were 
covered under the policy. So, on the balance of probabilities, I think its likely they wouldve still decided to take out the 
policy with A2. Of course, I dont know for sure what they wouldve done. But Mrs T did say 
during a phone call with Switch Healths representative that her son had a short overnight 
stay in hospital for croup which didnt require any medication. That was around nine months 
before taking out the policy and there had been no other episode between then and the 
policy being sold, otherwise Mrs T wouldve disclosed that too. Mrs T hadnt disclosed croup 
in the initial call when answering questions, so the incident doesnt seem to have been at the 
forefront of her mind. So, I dont think the addition of the croup exclusion wouldve prevented 
them from taking out the policy. Particularly as the membership guide says that the exclusion 
can be reviewed at Mr M and Mrs Ts request from October 2022  such a review would 
involve the submission of an up-to-date and relevant medical report.
I know that their son did have further episodes from later in 2021, and ended up needing 
treatment but Im focussing on what Mr M and Mrs T wouldve most likely done in September 
2020 based on the circumstances they were aware of then.
However, I accept that they wouldve been upset to subsequently discover that an exclusion 
for croup had been added the policy, despite Swich Healths representative advising in 2020 
that the policy didnt have any exclusions  and the inconvenience caused by having to find 
out how this happened. But Im satisfied that the offer made by Switch Health to pay them 
£300 fairly compensates them for that. 
Putting things right
Switch Health Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I direct Switch Health to pay Mr M and Mrs T £300 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint to the extent set out above. Switch Health Limited should put 
things as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman