DRN-3611279
The complaint
Ms A complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs (NatWest) decision to default a loan 
she held in joint names with her husband.
What happened
Ms A had a personal loan in joint names with her husband which they took in February 2020. 
Ms As husband became ill and was unable to work. Because of this, he entered into an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA)  a type of insolvency agreement.
On 28 September 2021, NatWest wrote to Ms A telling her that, as her husband had become 
insolvent, it was terminating the loan agreement. Formal notice of termination for the loan 
was sent on 18 December 2021. This explained that the balance needed to be repaid and if 
it wasnt repaid before this notice expired, the loan would be defaulted, and this would be 
recorded on Ms As credit file. 
Ms A complained to NatWest about this. She didnt agree the account should be defaulted 
as she was maintaining payments. And she was unhappy that when she called to discuss 
this matter, she spoke to someone who wasnt trained to deal with her enquiry. 
NatWest responded to the complaint explaining that because Ms As husband was now 
insolvent, the loan was repayable on demand. So, it was entitled to default the account if it 
wasnt repaid within a reasonable time period. It agreed it hadnt got things right from a 
customer service point of view when Ms A called to discuss the matter. It offered Ms A £100 
to reflect the upset this had caused and asked her to contact its collections team. 
On 8 January 2022, NatWest wrote to Ms A explaining that the termination notice had 
expired. It gave her until 18 January to repay the balance, otherwise the account would be 
defaulted. The balance wasnt repaid, and the account was defaulted.
Unhappy with this, Ms A referred her complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into her complaint. He was satisfied that NatWest was entitled to default the account 
as per the terms and conditions Ms A had agreed to when taking the loan. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ms A didnt accept this. She said that shed not missed any payments, and it was her 
husband, not her, who had become insolvent. She didnt think it was fair for this to be 
recorded on her credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the loan Ms A held in joint names with her husband do allow 
NatWest to terminate the agreement if either party becomes insolvent. Ms A has provided us 
with evidence that her husband had entered into an IVA and that the NatWest loan formed 
part of this IVA. Based on this, the loan had in effect defaulted and NatWest were not going 
to receive full repayment. The impact of the IVA on a debt here would usually be explained 
to Mr A as a part of the insolvency process and he could have then advised Ms A about this. 
But that would be a matter between Mr A, Ms A and the insolvency administrator, as all 
NatWest could do at the time is act on the notification of the insolvency of Mr A here  which 
is what it did.
For Ms A to have avoided the account defaulting, she wouldve needed to repay this loan in 
full by 18 January 2022 or have come to an acceptable arrangement with NatWest to do so. 
Ive seen that NatWest pointed here in the direction of free money advice services. It also 
invited her to get in touch if she wanted to discuss other options. But I cant see that she did 
so.
Ms A has told us that she wasnt in a position to continue to pay the loan on her own 
indefinitely. She had borrowed money to continue to make payments initially and has told us 
this wasnt sustainable. 
I recognise that the situation Ms A is now in is because of the ill health of her husband and 
this is why they were unable to maintain the monthly repayments to the loan. However, it 
was her husbands decision to enter into an IVA. And Ms A wasnt in a situation to take on 
the loan on her own or repay it in full. Therefore, I see no grounds to tell NatWest to remove 
the default from her credit file.
I understand that Ms A is upset as she says shes not missed a payment but now has a 
default recorded on her credit file. However, she was a joint party to this loan, and the loan 
wasnt repaid and has defaulted. By Ms As own admission, she couldnt maintain the 
payments indefinitely. So, while she may not have missed any payments previously, this was 
likely to happen in the near future. And I cant see that there wouldve been any other likely 
outcome other than the account defaulting, even if she had taken it into her own name rather 
than it being included with Mr As IVA. Furthermore, by being included within the IVA, Ms A 
and her husband have not had to repay the full balance of the loan and the debt has now 
been written off as I understand. 
Ultimately, Ms A was a joint party to a loan which wasnt repaid in full. I see no reason to tell 
NatWest it shouldnt report this as its correct information.
My final decision
I understand Ms A feels strongly about this matter, but my final decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman