DRN-4285944
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a personal loan Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as 
Tesco Bank) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and so irresponsibly provided to him.
Background
Tesco Bank provided Mr W with a loan for £5,500.00 in July 2021. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £150. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W and Tesco Bank had told us. And she thought 
that Tesco Bank hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Tesco Bank needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Tesco Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr W could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Tesco Bank says it agreed to Mr Ws application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and Mr Ws bank statement which he was asked 
to provide. 
In Tesco Banks view, all of this information showed Mr W could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr W has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and Tesco Bank have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Tesco Bank clearly asked Mr W to provide documentary 
evidence to support his application. So I dont think that this was a case of Tesco Bank 
simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value.
Tesco Banks credit searches also did show that Mr W had some existing debts. But its fair 
to say that these werent excessive and that they were being reasonably managed. 
Furthermore, having looked at the bank statement Mr W provided to Tesco Bank at the time, 
I cant see anything obvious on it which indicated Mr W wouldnt be able to make the 
repayments to this loan. Indeed, they appeared to suggest that he had the disposable 
income to be able to make the repayments required here.
I appreciate that Mr W has disputed the amount he was overdrawn by and has provided a 
later bank statement showing that he was more overdrawn. But even if he was overdrawn by 
£1,000.00 I dont that this would have meant that Tesco Bank shouldnt have lent, as Mr W 
could have cleared his overdraft with some of the funds from this loan  especially as it had 
a lower interest rate. 
Equally as this was Mr Ws first loan with Tesco Bank, Im satisfied that it was reasonably 
entitled to believe that it wouldnt be increasing Mr Ws existing indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
I accept that Mr W says he experienced difficulty making the payments. And Im sorry to 
hear this. But the notes provided suggest that this happened as a result from Mr W being off 
sick from work in or around 2019. But Tesco Bank wont have known this would happen and 
it could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Tesco Bank did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr W - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Tesco Bank treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman