The complaint
Miss L complains about her buy to let mortgage with NRAM Limited. Following her divorce 
from her ex-husband, she applied to take the mortgage over in her own name, but NRAM 
refused. She complains about that decision and the process she had to go through.
What happened
Miss L and her former husband owned a buy to let property mortgaged with NRAM. The 
mortgage was in joint names. Following the divorce the property was to be transferred to 
Miss Ls sole ownership. The rent formed a significant part of her income.
Miss L applied to remove her ex-husband from the mortgage and to take it over in her sole 
name.
NRAM asked Miss L to pay a £180 fee for considering the application. It then asked her for 
various pieces of evidence, including an updated tenancy agreement. Miss L explained that 
she had a longstanding tenant whose assured shorthold tenancy had expired and was now a 
periodic tenancy. She said asking the tenant to sign a new six-month tenancy agreement 
would put her in a difficult position. She said her tenant had suffered a recent bereavement 
and she didnt want to disturb or distress her. She said as a result of the request her 
relationship with her tenant broke down  and then NRAM said it didnt need a new tenancy 
agreement after all.
NRAM asked Miss L to nominate a solicitor to carry out the legal work. It said her nominated 
solicitor couldnt be used. She had to use a member of NRAMs panel, which her solicitor 
wasnt  but NRAM wouldnt tell her who was on the panel. Shed paid £150 to her solicitors 
before she was told she couldnt use them.
Miss L said there was a court order requiring her ex-husband, rather than her, to pay the 
mortgage until the transfer took place (or the property was sold). He said he wasnt prepared 
to pay it after July 2019 if the transfer hadnt happened by then. So Miss L wrote to NRAM. 
She wanted NRAM to confirm it would only chase him in the even of non-payment. But 
NRAM said both parties were liable for the whole mortgage while it was in joint names. 
Therefore it couldnt chase only him and not her in the event of non-payment. Miss L also 
said he was refusing to sign documents  though he did sign them in the end, Miss L says 
NRAM could have agreed to dispense with his signature sooner.
And Miss L said NRAM was aware of her difficult personal circumstances, including the 
nature of her marriage and divorce. It should have handled things sympathetically and 
efficiently. But it hadnt done so.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Miss L asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
DRN-1929607What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im sorry to hear of everything Miss Ls been through over the last few years. Im 
sure this hasnt been an easy time. And I understand how important it was for this matter to 
be resolved  as sorting out the mortgage was a crucial part of being able to move on with 
her life. So its no surprise she wanted things to be completed as quickly as possible, and 
was frustrated when they took longer.
And I know NRAM was aware of her circumstances too, and as a result  treating her fairly  
should have made sure that the application went through as smoothly, and with as little 
delay, as possible.
Having looked at everything that happened, I dont think NRAM acted unfairly here. There 
were a couple of opportunities to make things run a little more smoothly, but I dont think that 
they ultimately made any difference.
This was a joint mortgage, over a jointly owned property. Miss L was to take it over as part of 
the divorce. Once that happened, she would be the only person liable for the mortgage  so 
its standard, and reasonable, that applications like this are carefully considered. In the first 
place the lender needs to know that the other party is happy to be removed, and secondly it 
needs to know that the applicant will be able to manage the mortgage payments on their 
own. And while NRAM was aware of Miss Ls particular circumstances, it would still need to 
make those checks before transferring the mortgage to her sole name. 
Miss L first discussed the application with NRAM in January 2019. It explained what it would 
need, and that there would be a £180 up-front fee. Miss L didnt pay the fee until May, so 
NRAM couldnt start the process until then.
NRAM told Miss L that it would require a new tenancy agreement. I dont think this was 
unreasonable. This is a buy to let mortgage, with the payments dependent on the tenants 
rent. While the tenant might have been in the property a long time, they were only on a one 
month rolling periodic tenancy  which is less secure than a new six month (or longer) 
assured shorthold tenancy. 
On 24 May, Miss L told NRAM about her tenants sensitive circumstances, and why she was 
unwilling to trouble the tenant as a result. She followed this up with a letter. NRAM gave 
thought to what shed said. And it noted that the rent was significantly greater than the 
mortgage, which gave it some comfort. So it agreed to go ahead with just the periodic 
tenancy in place, telling Miss L this on 12 June.
Unfortunately by then Miss L had already contacted the tenant to require a new agreement. 
She says this caused the tenant  and her  much distress. And it meant she lost out on the 
chance to increase the rent, which she was planning to do once the tenant had recovered. 
I do understand Miss L was put in a difficult position. But as Ive said, it was important for 
NRAM to make sure the mortgage was manageable  which includes a stable tenancy in 
place. While there was a longstanding tenant, the periodic tenancy only committed them to 
staying for a month. Despite this, NRAM did consider the exceptional circumstances of this 
case and make an exception to its policy. I think that was fair, and I dont think NRAM 
delayed in making this decision. And I dont think it was unreasonable to ask for an updated 
tenancy agreement in the first place.Once NRAM had all the documents it needed, the next stage was for Miss L to instruct a 
solicitor. As the solicitor would be acting for both her and NRAM, they needed to be on 
NRAMs panel. Thats not unreasonable  it means NRAM was only instructing a solicitor it 
knew and was happy with. 
The first solicitor Miss L instructed wasnt on the panel and couldnt be added. So NRAM 
required Miss L to find another. It refused to tell her who was on the panel. I dont think this 
was helpful, and presented Miss L with something of a Catch-22. She could only use 
someone on the panel and had to find them herself  but wasnt allowed to know who that 
was. 
As I say, that wasnt helpful, and I dont consider it fair. But, in this case, its not a reason to 
uphold the complaint. I say this because Miss L already had the name of another solicitor, 
had asked NRAM if this one was on the panel, and NRAM said yes. So there was no delay 
caused here.
Miss L said she paid £150 to the first solicitor before learning it wasnt on the panel. Thats 
unfortunate, but I dont think I can fairly hold NRAM responsible for that since it explicitly 
warned her not to commit to paying legal fees so early in the process.
From early July, the matter was with the solicitors. They needed Miss Ls ex-husband to sign 
a form allowing the property to be transferred to her sole name. He initially didnt sign the 
forms, and that caused delay  but I dont think NRAM was responsible for that. Once it 
learned this was the reason, it said it could consider going ahead with the transfer of the 
mortgage even if he didnt sign the transfer of the property forms  but that didnt become 
necessary, since he did then sign. The transaction then completed.
Miss L says NRAM could have dispensed with his signature sooner, knowing of her 
circumstances. But I dont think it could reasonably have been expected to do that. As I say, 
its generally important to make sure both parties consent to changes like this. An exception 
can be made, in an exceptional case, but because theres risk to NRAM and Miss L in going 
ahead without his consent thats not something to be done where it isnt necessary. So I 
think NRAM acted fairly in expecting Miss Ls ex-husband to agree  and then considering 
whether to make an exception once it learned he might not do so.
Miss L also says that he threatened not to pay the mortgage  even though the court had 
said he should  after July if the transfer hadnt gone through. In the event, that didnt 
happen. But Miss L asked NRAM to confirm that if it did it would only chase him, but it wasnt 
willing to do that.
Again, thats not unfair. The court ordered him to pay the mortgage, but didnt order NRAM 
to release Miss L from liability to do so. Rather, it said he should indemnify her against any 
liability. This is a legal term, but in simple terms what it means is this. Both parties are still 
liable for the mortgage as the contract is with both of them; but the court says he should 
make the payments; if he doesnt, and NRAM makes Miss L pay them instead, Miss L can 
go back to court and ask the court to make him refund  indemnify  her. But the court has 
no power to force NRAM to only hold one party liable, and NRAM is legally entitled to collect 
payments from all the parties to the mortgage, including Miss L.
In conclusion, Im very sympathetic to Miss Ls situation and I understand her desire to make 
sure things went through as quickly and smoothly as they could have done  and her 
frustration when it took longer than shed hoped. But I dont think NRAM acted unreasonably 
in following its usual process, and acted fairly in agreeing to make several exceptions for 
Miss L once it proved necessary. I think it was willing to consider making adjustments where 
appropriate. And Im pleased that, in the end, the transfer went ahead and Miss L was able to carry on rebuilding her life independently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman