DRN-4110884
The complaint
Mrs R complains on behalf of her daughter Miss R that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
settled a claim without consulting her and held her liable for an accident that should have 
been 50/50.  
What happened
Miss R holds a motor insurance policy on which Mrs R is a named driver.  
In November 2021 Miss R was in a car accident which she believed was a 50/50 case as 
there was no evidence to suggest either party was at fault. 
Miss R logged the claim with Admiral straight away but heard nothing.
Admiral didnt contact Miss R until 7 June 2022 when they advised that the third party had 
issued court proceedings. 
Mrs R on behalf of Miss R advised Admiral that they wanted to defend the claim, and 
Admiral instructed their solicitors. Mrs R spoke to the solicitors and provided a statement on 
24 June. The solicitors advised they would lodge the defence and it would be likely to settle 
50/50. 
However, on 29 June Miss R received a letter advising that Admiral had settled the claim, 
accepting liability. 
Mrs R complained to Admiral and they partially upheld her complaint and paid Miss R £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. They agreed that there had been 
no contact for a long period, and that there should have been better communication, but they 
didnt agree that they were wrong to accept liability.  
Mrs R was unhappy with Admirals response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Rs complaint but thought that Admirals had acted 
fairly, and that their offer of compensation was reasonable. 
Mrs R disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
What I have to decide is whether Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the terms of the policy when dealing with Miss Rs claim.
Im intending to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and I will explain why.
Delays in communication
I can see that this accident was reported to Admiral on 9 November 2021, but that they 
made no contact with Miss R until 7 June 2022 following receiving a notice to issue court 
proceedings on from the third party insurers on 26 May 2022. 
It is Admirals inaction between November and June in respect of the claim which has led to 
the court proceedings being issued, and matters becoming urgent, so I think that Admiral are 
right to recognise this in their complaint response with an offer of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
 
Dispute of Liability
Miss R disputed her liability for the accident from the outset, saying that it should have been 
50/50 liability. 
Admiral have explained that after speaking to Mrs R, the solicitors did put forward the 50/50 
offer to the third party. However, this was rejected, and as Mrs R had previously said that 
Miss R didnt want to go to court, Admiral decided to settle the claim at 100% liability to avoid 
further proceedings and costs. 
At page 25 of the policy booklet, it says that Admiral are:
We are entitled to 
Conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf
So, Im satisfied that Admiral are entitled to settle a claim in this way under the terms of the 
policy. However, in this case, I dont think Admiral have done enough to confirm the position 
with Miss R regarding going to court before taking that decision. 
I can see from the claim notes that when Admiral wrote to Miss R in June 2022, Mrs R 
contacted Admiral on her daughters behalf and explained to them that her daughter was in 
the middle of her university exams, and that she didnt want her being under any further 
pressure to go to court at that time and she asked them to settle 50/50. 
On 10 June the complaint handler called Miss R about her complaint resolution, and it is 
recorded that We have been working on the basis PH not willing to attend court, having 
spoken with Mrs R (ND) and Mr R (ND) they changed their mind and wanting to attend 
court. And further down the note it says ND adv happy to attend court, adv as PH driving 
PH needs to attend. Understood Adv file will be passed to our SOLS, they will be in touch re 
next steps and complaints will be in touch
When Mrs R spoke to Admirals solicitors  she was advised that it was unlikely to go to court, 
and on that basis, she instructed them to pursue a 50/50 settlement. 
I think that given what is at stake here, Admiral should have gone back to Mrs R after the 
offer of 50/50 was rejected by the third party insurers and explained that the only option now 
would be court, and to ask if she was still unwilling to attend court  especially given that the 
reason for not wanting to go to court was because of exams and those would have been 
over by the time it would reach court. 
Mrs R has told us that faced with the only option of accepting liability, Miss R would have  
gone to court, and I think she should have been presented with the right information and her 
options.  As this didnt happen, I am minded to award some further distress and inconvenience for this 
aspect of the complaint. 
The increase in premiums
Mrs R has told us that because the claim was recorded as a fault claim, rather than a 50/50 
claim, it has caused a significant increase in the renewal premium that Miss R had to pay. 
Miss R has now changed insurer, but Mrs R has said that she was told the premium was 
£263 higher than it would have been if the claim had settled 50/50. Unfortunately, she has 
been unable to provide me with written evidence to support this, but she has given me a 
copy of Miss Rs premium showing it was £938.77 for the year with 2 fault claims recorded. 
Ive asked Admiral what difference the full liability fault claim made to the renewal price they 
quoted. Admiral have said that whether a claim is 50/50 or full liability, it is still recorded as a 
fault claim, and so it makes no difference in terms of the effect on the premium. Any 
difference in premium comes from the value of the claim. In this case as the claim was high 
value, Admiral have told us that the difference in premium would either be £27.21 or £21.77 
depending on what the value settlement had been with the 50/50 split. So, the lowest 
renewal premium Admiral would have quoted Miss R would have been £1107.33. 
This was still significantly higher than the premium Miss R paid by changing insurers,  and 
so without evidence from the new insurer of what difference a 50/50 claim would have made 
to their price, I cant say whether there has been a disadvantage to Miss R here or not.      
I note Mrs R has also raised the issue of the excess, but a 50/50 claim would still have 
resulted in payment of the excess. 
Taking into account what I have said above, I do think that Admiral could have provided 
better service, and this might have led to a different outcome, but I cant determine what that 
might have been, so I can only really make an award in respect of the poor service. I note 
that Admiral have offered £150, but I think that an award of £300 is more in line with the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the failings in communication at a time what Miss R 
was already under pressure because of her exams.  
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mrs Rs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received any comments from Admiral. Mrs R has raised a query about the excess 
but this has been responded to by the investigator. She hasnt expressed a view about 
whether the decision is accepted. However, in light of the above, Im making my final 
decision in line with my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Admiral should pay Miss R a total of £300, deducting the £150 if it 
had already been paid. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Miss Rs complaint, and directing Admiral to put things 
right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman