DRN-1536257
 
The complaint
Miss D complains about Starling Bank Limited and their failure to progress her chargeback 
after she was unable to withdraw funds from a third-party website (M) account.
What happened
Miss D made a number of deposits into her account with M using her Starling debit card. The 
same day, Miss D attempted to withdraw her winnings back into the same Starling account. 
But M said they were unable to do so. Miss D was unhappy with this so raised a chargeback 
with Starling.
Starling declined the chargeback, explaining that the transactions didnt fall under the 
scheme rule criteria of the card issuer. Miss D didnt agree with this decision to decline the 
chargeback. So, she complained about this as well as raising her concerns about Starling 
and the fact M wouldnt process the withdrawal as Starling were the provider of the account.
Starling responded saying the felt theyd declined the chargeback fairly. They also explained 
it was Ms decision not to process the withdrawal into her Starling account, so they directed 
Miss D to discuss this with M directly. But they offered Miss D £25 to recognise delays in 
their response to Miss Ds communication. Miss D remained unhappy, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She thought 
Starling had reasonably considered the card issuers scheme rules and declined the 
chargeback fairly. She also didnt think it was fair to hold Starling accountable for Ms 
commercial decision not process withdrawals into accounts they supply. She did accept the 
way in which Starling handled the issue could have been better but overall, she didnt think 
Starling needed to do anything further. Miss D was unhappy with this view so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the upset the situation has caused Miss D. Ive no doubt that it 
wouldve been frustrating for Miss D to be unable to access winnings that she was entitled to 
collect, especially in the run up to Christmas. But Ive considered whether this upset has 
resulted from the failures of Starling and in this instance, I dont think it has.
I think its important to explain that banks dont have to raise chargebacks. I would expect 
banks to consider the card issuers scheme rules so be sure the claim itself fits the criteria 
before raising one. On this occasion, Miss D wanted to raise a chargeback as she felt, by 
being unable to claim the winnings she generated from her deposits, she hadnt received a 
complete service. I understand why Miss D would think this. But by depositing funds into her account with M, I 
think Miss D was paying to be able to do this and then gamble with the amount she 
deposited. And she was able to do so. As generating any winnings wasnt a guarantee, I 
dont think its likely that the card issuer would include any withdrawals as part of the initial 
service she paid for. So, on this occasion, I think its likely the card issuer wouldve declined 
the chargeback had Starling progressed it further. For this reason, I dont think Starling acted 
unfairly by deciding not to do so on this occasion. 
But even before the chargeback, Miss D was unhappy that she was allowed to deposit funds 
using her Starling debit card but not allowed to withdraw winnings the same way. Ive seen 
the card issuers rules which explain that gambling merchants, such as M, arent authorised 
to credit winnings onto cards they supply. But, there are no rules to say the cards cant be 
used to deposit amounts. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to decide that Starling have 
acted unfairly by allowing Miss D to make deposits to M.
Im aware Miss D has also raised concerns about Starling as M said they were unable to 
complete a wire transfer to them specifically. But this was due to a commercial decision of M 
rather than any failures of Starling. I can understand the frustration this caused Miss D and I 
think its likely she wouldnt have deposited the funds if she knew this to be the case. But I 
think this was Ms responsibility to communicate to their potential customers, not the 
responsibility of Starling. So again, I cant say that Starling have acted unfairly.
Ive seen that from the date the chargeback was raised on 9 December, it took Starling a 
period of 18 days to consider the chargeback, decline it, explain their reasons and respond 
to Miss Ds complaint about the decline. As I dont think this is a significantly unreasonable 
time frame, I dont think Starling need to do anything further.
While I appreciate the difficulties Miss D has faced when withdrawing her winnings, which 
she has now been able to do, I dont think these difficulties were caused by Starling. Starling 
have offered Miss D £25 because they think the service they provided couldve been better. 
Its now for Miss D to decide whether to accept this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint about Starling Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman