DRN-4089642
The complaint
Miss L complains about the advice she got when arranging a mortgage with the support of 
Chine Financial Ltd. Miss L said she was wrongly advised by her broker, partway through, 
that a cash gift from a relative was no longer needed. Miss L wanted her broker fee back.
What happened
Miss L said shed been trying to purchase a property, using a mortgage arranged by a broker 
working for Chine. The first property fell through, and Miss L found somewhere else to buy in 
July 2022. But she said that around mid-August, she had conversations with the broker, 
where the broker began getting the figures wrong.
Miss L said she was given the wrong amount for her outstanding mortgage balance. When
Miss L got in touch to correct this, she said the broker worked the figures out again. The
broker then told Miss L that a gift of £55,000 from a relative, which Miss L thought she
needed to afford her new home, wouldnt be required after all.
Miss L said around a month later, she discovered from her solicitor that this gift would be
needed after all. Miss L said this caused her a great deal of anxiety, and she was concerned
that her relative would no longer be able to make this gift. Fortunately, the relative was still
willing to support Miss L in her purchase, and this went ahead.
Miss L said shed paid about £1,000 in fees to Chine. She thought it should pay this back.
When Miss L complained, Chine said it had made Miss L aware at the start of their meetings
that she would need a cash gift from her relative to complete her purchase. Chine said there
was then unfortunately some miscommunication when Miss L told it that she did not need
the gift. Chine said it would apologise for that, but it wasnt upholding her complaint.
Our investigator accepted that Chine had made a mistake about whether the gifted funds
would be required or not. He said the advisors initial advice was right, the gift was needed.
Our investigator accepted that this caused Miss L some anxiety, but he didnt think it would
be fair to ask Chine to pay back the two amounts of £495 that it had charged. He said Chine
had provided the service it said it would, despite the confusion.
Miss L didnt agree. She said the mistake wasnt corrected for around a month, and she 
wanted recognition that this was dealt with badly. Miss L said Chine hadnt accepted this, 
what it had said about what went wrong wasnt true. Our investigator said he did think this 
mistake was Chines fault, but he still wouldnt ask Chine to refund its fees.
Miss L wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Theres no dispute that Miss L spent a period of time thinking she wouldnt need a cash 
gift from her relative to buy her new home. But Chine appears to have taken the view 
that this is Miss Ls fault, because shed told it that she didnt need this money.
Miss L has sent us an email, dated 22 August 2022, where the broker says, After our 
discussion we have realised that you have enough equity in your current property to 
cover the deposit yourself without the need for a gift.
I dont know whether this mistake originated with Miss L, or with the broker. It seems a 
little more likely that this mistake originated with the broker, simply because I can see a 
previous mistake the broker made about the amount Miss L owed on her existing 
mortgage, which does suggest the broker was experiencing some confusion over the 
figures. But, whoever said this first, it is clear that the broker then told Miss L that she 
wouldnt need a deposit. And on Chines evidence, this wasnt corrected until a little over 
a month later, when Miss Ls solicitors told her about the shortfall and explained she 
would still need a gift.
Its fortunate that Miss Ls relative was still both willing and able to support her with this 
gift, and Miss Ls purchase went ahead.
Although I agree with our investigator that Chine doesnt have to refund the whole of the 
two fees it charged for work it did for Miss L, I do think it should pay some compensation 
in this case, for the distress Miss L felt when she suddenly realised she was £55,000 
short of being able to buy her home, and would need to approach her relative again 
asking for the previously offered gift. I think this would have been stressful, and I think 
Chine should pay Miss L £250 in compensation to make up for this distress and 
inconvenience.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L replied to my provisional decision, saying she agreed. Chine didnt respond either to 
the original decision from our service, or to a further prompt our investigator then sent.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Chine Financial Ltd must pay Miss L £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman