DRN-3568355
The complaint
Mr O complains about Magus Private Wealth Limiteds (Magus) role in the delay to the 
transfer of his self invested personal pension (SIPP) to a new platform. He says the delay 
meant his fund dropped by over £100,000 for which he would like to be reimbursed.  
What happened
Because Mr O has made complaints about the main three parties involved here, Ive decided 
to refer to them all by name at various points in each complaint to better explain the 
sequence of events. This decision is solely to provide an outcome for the complaint against 
Magus.
Mr O had held an existing SIPP with Standard Life since 2015, although hed held a personal 
pension with it since 1984. Mr O had become disappointed with the SIPPs performance and 
so in early 2020 he met with Magus to discuss his retirement planning options  which were 
summarised in a report issued to him on 31 January 2020. Magus recommended that Mr O 
transferred his existing SIPP to a new pension platform and invested in its own model 
portfolio containing 60% equities and 40% fixed interest investments  which Mr O accepted. 
So on 5 February 2020 Magus submitted Mr Os transfer request to the new platform. An 
accompanying covering letter said It is my wish to transfer my pension fund held within the 
above numbered SIPP to (the new platform). Please could you therefore authorise Aberdeen 
Standard Capital to sell down all of the conventional return portfolio to cash to be returned to 
yourselves in anticipation of the transfer. Please can all of the target return portfolio also be 
sold down, wherever possible, and the cash retuned to yourselves. The letter also 
requested that a suspended fund within the SIPP be re-registered to the new platform and 
that any queries should be directed to Magus.
On 10 February a transfer request pack was sent to Standard Life by the new platform and 
this was acknowledged as being received on 13 February 2020. At this time the SIPP was 
valued at £913,440.
Standard Life says the new platform wanted the SEDOL codes of each fund to be included 
in a valuation which was to be returned to the platform. So, on 28 February 2020 Standard 
Life requested this information from the fund manager, Aberdeen Standard Capital (ASC), 
which was provided on 2 March 2020.
Because Mr O had now discovered that the transfer hadnt taken place he asked Magus to 
chase up matters and following a direct progress update request to ASAC, it was confirmed 
that the funds could now be sold  but ASC required further confirmation from Magus that 
the transfer should proceed, as the value of the SIPP had fallen to £843,574.55. Magus 
wasnt prepared to provide that confirmation.
But by 23 March 2020 Magus said its position remained unchanged from the time of its 
original request and it was agreed that the SIPP funds would be sold. By 1 April 2020 the 
funds had mainly been realised to a total of £789,492.43. Further cash from sales was 
received during the following week. An application was then made to purchase the new 
funds which completed on 15 April 2020 when the in-specie part of the transfer began. This 
completed on 29 April 2020 and by 21 May 2020 the remaining funds were transferred, and 
the SIPP was closed with a final transfer value of £803,264.75. 
But as Mr O had expected the transfer to complete by the original proposed date of 
13 February 2020  when his plan was valued at £913,440, he calculated that hed lost over 
£110,000 and complained to his adviser who then complained to the other two parties 
involved.  
Mr O says Magus was confident that its complaints would be upheld and when he 
questioned what would happen if they werent, he says Magus told him that it would address 
any financial losses hed suffered. But as the complaints against the other parties werent 
upheld and he wasnt compensated, Mr O complained to Magus and asked for a refund of 
the fees hed paid as well as redress for his financial loss  shared between Magus and the 
other parties involved. 
Magus didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said it sent a written transfer request to the relevant 
parties in good faith and expected them to instruct the sale and progress matters in a timely 
manner. It said it couldnt control the speed at which those parties processed the transfer  
but didnt think it could have done anything differently or affected the outcome. 
But Mr O believed he had lost out financially because of the delay through no fault of his 
own, so he brought complaints about all the parties involved to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter relating to Magus and said this wasnt a 
complaint we should uphold. She said that Magus did send an instruction to the new 
provider in a timely manner and chased up the sale and transfer request on a number of 
occasions. But she did think Magus caused an unreasonable delay of 13 days by not 
instructing the sale of the portfolios within the SIPP on 10 March 2020 when ASC was ready 
to process them. 
However, as she had been provided with a calculation that showed Mr Os SIPP would be 
worth over £13,000 less today if the transfer had occurred on 13 February 2020, she 
decided Mr O had gained from the delay and it wouldnt be appropriate to ask Magus to 
revise Mr Os position so that he was now worse off financially.  
Mr O didnt agree. He said there was no correlation between the original SIPP funds and the 
new ones  so he didnt think it was fair to add a value to the funds after the transfer had 
occurred. He remained of the view that the amount of funds transferred was over £110,000 
less than should have been transferred and that would have been the basis on which to 
calculate the growth on the new funds. 
The investigator remained of the view that Mr O hadnt suffered a loss. Mr O then asked for 
his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 31 May 2022. In that decision I said Mr Os 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, I made the following points in support of my 
decision:
The main part of Mr Os complaint was that he said his instruction to sell most of the 
assets in his SIPP to cash was quite clear in his covering letter of 5 February 2020. He thought the request to encash should have been carried out as soon as it was 
received by Standard Life. Id dealt with that part of the delay in the separate 
complaint against Standard Life.
So I didnt think it was fair to put any responsibility for that particular period of delay  
from 27 February 202 until 10 March 2020 - on Magus. And I concluded that it 
probably took the right approach in sending Mr Os request to the new provider in the 
first place.
But I didnt think Magus acted fairly after it established that the funds could be sold by 
ASC. I thought it should have allowed the sale to take place at that time instead of 
instructing ASC to put the sale on hold while it confirmed the position with Mr O.
I thought Magus was responsible for any losses which might have occurred as a 
result of the delay in the sale of the SIPPs assets from 10 to 23 March 2020.
I explained that a calculation had already been carried out, which showed that Mr O 
had in fact made a financial gain of over £13,000 based on the dates that were used 
to determine any prospective loss. 
But I wasnt satisfied that the dates used were consistent with what I thought should 
have happened. So I asked Magus to carry out another calculation, comparing the 
notional value of Mr Os SIPP if the assets had been sold 13 days before they were  
with the actual value of his SIPP.
The following is taken directly from the relevant section within the provisional decision:
The transfer request
On 5 February 2020 Magus sent a transfer request to the new platform with a covering letter
from Mr O, which said that It is my wish to transfer my pension fund held within the above
numbered SIPP to (the new platform). Please could you therefore authorise Aberdeen
Standard Capital to sell down all of the conventional return portfolio to cash to be returned to
yourselves in anticipation of the transfer.
Ive seen a copy of this letter which the new platform sent to Standard Life  and was
acknowledged as being received on 13 February 2020, along with a copy of the transfer
request. This constituted the pack which has previously been referred to.
And the crux of this complaint is that Magus and Mr O have said that when the request was
received by Standard Life the saleable assets should have been sold to cash immediately as
its instructions were quite clear. Ive dealt with this matter in the complaint against Standard
Life, in which I concluded that the covering letter ought to have alerted Standard Life to the
fact that the majority of Mr Os assets  apart from one illiquid fund, needed to be encashed
immediately. So I said, even allowing for its 10 day turnaround service standards, it should
have asked ASC to sell the funds at the end of this period which I thought could have been
completed within two working days thereafter.
So, based on those findings it wouldnt be reasonable for me to put any of the responsibility
for that delay on Magus. I have considered Standard Lifes argument here that Magus could
have directed its request to sell the portfolios directly to ASC in the first place. 
And Ive seen evidence in the form of a number of emails that Magus had a good ongoing 
relationship with ASC  which is supported by its direct approach on 10 March 2020, when it 
questioned why the assets hadnt already been sold. But, on balance, I think it was the right 
approach to send the request to the new provider in the first instance, so although Magus 
could have taken an alternative approach I didnt think it did anything wrong in taking the 
course of action that it did.
But Ive also considered the situation on and around 10 March 2020 when ASC confirmed toMagus that it was then able to sell the funds. Ive listened to a call recording between the two
firms on the same day in which Magus told ASC to put any sales on hold until it had
confirmed matters with Mr O  because of the significant fall in the value of the fund. This
position was confirmed in a subsequent email which stated that, Further to our telephone
conversation earlier this morning, I have now received the instruction from the SIPP
provider. Just to confirm, although we have received an instruction from the SIPP Provider to
sell down the portfolios, we will not sell down these portfolios now, instead we will wait for
your instruction owing to the recent difficult market conditions.
It wasnt until 23 March 2020 that Magus confirmed its position in an email which said, our
position is clear. The instruction to sell was received and acknowledged by Standard Life on
13th February and that is our position. Our complaint email of 12th March reaffirms this
position. Magus should not be responsible for any loss from 11th March to today.
Please take whatever action is needed to address this situation which has sadly created a
totally unnecessary level of stress for my client.
ASC took this as an instruction to continue with the sale and transfer which was then
progressed until it eventually completed in May 2020.
But I think Magus should have mitigated Mr Os position on 10 March 2020 and allowed the
sale to take place at that time. I say that because the sale was time critical and should have
continued as per Mr Os initial request and any financial loss which might have subsequently
been discovered could have been calculated up to that point. After all Mr Os intention was
always to have sold before transferring and theres no evidence to suggest he wanted the
sale to be delayed while confirming whether he was comfortable with any market losses.
However, if its Magus position that, in delaying, it was in fact acting upon Mr Os instruction,
it should provide the evidence of this.
So, while I dont believe Magus was responsible for any losses which might have been
incurred as a result of delays up to 10 March 2020, I consider that it should have allowed the
sale to continue on 10 March 2020 as originally planned, and I think Magus should calculate
any losses that may have occurred from the delay of the sale from 10 March 2020 to
23 March 2020. Ive set out below what I think Magus should do to correct this position.
The calculation to determine any loss
Looking at the calculation supplied by Magus, on which it had based its decision that Mr O
hadnt suffered a financial loss, Im persuaded that it was carried out in line with the method
we would have recommended. Magus had calculated that, as of 8 July 2020  the date that
it carried out the calculation - Mr Os SIPP was worth over £13,000 more than if it had been
encashed and invested without delay and according to the transfer request.
So I asked for further calculations from Magus but also from the platform involved as I
thought it had the ability to be able to provide notional figures of what should have happened
if there hadnt been a delay.
Mr O was provided with a copy of these calculations, but he didnt accept them. He said it
wasnt possible to combine actual and theoretical values because the original fund no
longer existed and there was no correlation between that fund and the one that he
transferred to. He said that the fund that was eventually transferred in May 2020 had already
fallen by £110,175.25 as a result of the delay  which he thought was an undisputed loss
which he should be compensated for.
But I think it would be sensible for me to try to explain what the calculation is trying todemonstrate in an effort to show Mr O that, while he has indeed suffered delays over the
transfer of his SIPP  for which he wasnt in any way responsible in my view  the ultimate
outcome is that, based on the dates that were used for the calculation, he fortuitously
benefitted financially from those delays. I recognise this might be difficult to accept, given the
fairly obvious notion of the clear drop in the value of the fund from March to May 2020  but I
think the timing of the request, with the apparent volatility in the market because of a global
pandemic that was evolving at that time, might at least offer some explanation for what
happened to the funds here.
Mr O has said, on a number of occasions, that he is happy with his new funds and doesnt
want them mingled with the previous funds and shouldnt be part of this complaint. But its
not clear to me what he means by this. Mr O had lost faith in the original Standard Life funds
he held and thats why he wanted to transfer. By remaining in those funds for around three
months longer than he anticipated and wanted I can understand why Mr O would be
frustrated by that. And indeed, his frustration is at least superficially borne out by the fact that
the value of his SIPP, invested into those funds, fell by over £100,000 in those three months.
But thats been taken into account within the calculation which provided an actual value of
the fund, as of 8 July 2020, based on investment in those funds until May 2020 and then
investment into the new funds thereafter. This was then compared with the position Mr O
would be in now had investment been made into the new funds on 13 February 2020 
which is wanted Mr O wanted to happen.
Putting it as simply as I can, the replacement funds within the new platform wouldnt have
been immune from the market losses which afflicted his existing funds, especially when 60%
of the new investment portfolio was to be invested in equities. The only way by which Mr O
could have entirely insulated his pension funds from the falls in financial markets would have
been to switch into cash and remain in cash until the market had bottomed. But this isnt
what any party is saying should have happened here, and the evidence doesnt support the
position that this was Mr Os intent.
So the transfer into the new platform should arguably have happened faster, but this would
have largely switched him from one type of portfolio which would be affected by losses in
financial markets at the time to another which would have experienced something similar.
And this is a reasonable explanation as to why the comparison demonstrated that
investment according to Mr Os request and at the earliest opportunity would have provided
him with a smaller fund than that he ended up with following the delayed transfer. In
essence, those replacement pension funds would also have been affected by the declines in
financial markets and, by remaining in his existing pension funds for longer, that negative
effect was somewhat mitigated.
But while Im satisfied with the information that was input to carry out the calculations that
have been provided, I dont consider now, having looked at all the evidence in more detail,
that the dates that were used were consistent with what I think should have happened here.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr O broadly accepted my provisional decision and the dates that Id used for the revised 
calculation. But Magus didnt agree, making the following points in response:
There was no reason to suggest Mr Os original instruction had been rescinded 
during the process, so ASC didnt need to ask Magus for reconfirmation of the sale on 10 March 2020. So it didnt think it was reasonable to put any responsibility onto 
Magus for the delay in selling the assets to cash. 
It had no control over any delays that had been caused prior to 10 March 2020. 
It didnt provide any new information regarding the instruction to sell in its email on 
23 March 2020  it simply reaffirmed its previous position. 
It was unfortunate that the markets fell significantly while Mr O remained invested 
after 10 March 2020. The assets were sold when they had a low unit value and only 
started to recover when Mr O was already in cash  but Magus didnt deliberately 
delay the sale due to market conditions. 
It didnt accept my redress formula and felt that it was being held responsible for 
paying redress of the biggest potential loss, purely because of the timing of the 
downturn in the market. 
It was unaware of any redress Id recommended in the other complaints, but felt that 
Standard Life ought to take overall responsibility for any losses because it didnt do 
what it was originally instructed to do and arrange to sell the assets to cash. 
Id provisionally decided that the calculation of any potential loss needed to be 
brought up to the date of my final decision. But this would cause Magus a bigger 
potential loss than if the calculation was capped as at 7 July 2020  which was the 
date that was originally used. It thought that, as it hadnt caused the delay in 
resolving the complaint, this was unreasonable.
Financial gains that Mr O might make from any redress calculations elsewhere need 
to be offset against any losses arising from Magus calculation. 
It proposed a solution whereby it and Standard Life could be held responsible for a 
percentage of any loss arising from a decision about the number of days delay each 
party had caused. It thought this proposal gave a fairer outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, and carefully considered Magus further submissions and redress 
proposals, I see no reason to depart from my original findings but with the inclusion of the 
revised redress formula that I proposed in my recent email to all the parties involved.
The delays in encashing the saleable assets in the SIPP
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt think Magus was responsible for any delay in 
not selling the SIPPs assets from the date it first submitted Mr Os sale and transfer request, 
until the point ASC said the assets could be sold. Ive dealt with that period of delay in the 
other decisions and, based on the further submissions Ive been provided with, I havent 
been persuaded to change my mind and I dont think its fair to hold Magus responsible for 
that aspect of the overall delay. 
But I have considered the events of 10 March 2020 when ASC was in discussion with Magus 
following Magus direct approach to chase up the sales. 
As set out in the provisional decision, I listened to the call recordings from that day and Im 
satisfied that Magus, when asked to confirm if Mr O still wanted to proceed with the sale 
against the background of falling markets, told ASC to put the matter on hold. And this was 
confirmed in a subsequent email in which ASC said, Further to our telephone conversation 
earlier this morning, I have now received the instruction from the SIPP provider. Just to 
confirm, although we have received an instruction from the SIPP Provider to sell down the portfolios, we will not sell down these portfolios now, instead we will wait for your instruction 
owing to the recent difficult market conditions. 
I think this indicated a clear instruction from Magus not to continue with the sale until it had 
revisited the position and updated ASC. And if it didnt accept ASC reaffirming the situation 
and (apparently) putting the responsibility onto Magus, then I would have expected Magus to 
have responded straight away stating what its position should have been.
Magus has said that its understanding of Mr Os intention had always remained the same as 
the original instruction to sell on 5 February 2020. It thought its complaint email of 
23 March 2020, in which it said Magus should not be responsible for any loss from 
11th March to today. Please take whatever action is needed to address this situation which 
has sadly created a totally unnecessary level of stress for my client, was confirmation of 
this. 
But I cant ignore that Magus was Mr Os adviser and responsible for giving the instructions 
to proceed with the different parts of this transaction. I think it was clear that Magus told ASC 
to pause proceedings on 10 March 2020, and that it gave an instruction to continue with the 
sale on 23 March 2020, albeit that it wasnt a direct instruction but reference to its original 
position, Our position is clear. The instruction to sell was received and acknowledged by 
Standard Life on 13th February and that is our position. 
Magus hasnt subsequently provided any evidence to show that Mr O instructed it to delay 
the sale and Im satisfied that the instruction not to carry on with the sale on 10 March 2020, 
as well intentioned as it may have been, was Magus. So I think its responsible for any 
potential losses that might have occurred had the sale continued on 10 March 2020 as put 
forward by ASC. 
The redress calculation 
In my provisional decision I said that a calculation to determine any losses had already been 
carried out both by Magus and also the new SIPP platform at my request. The calculation, 
which was based on selling assets within the SIPP and transferring the SIPP at the earliest 
date possible, showed that Mr O had in fact made a financial gain from the (delayed) 
process. I explained why this may have happened, in what was a rather unique investment 
background  coming as it did in the middle of significant volatility in the markets caused by 
a global pandemic. 
But I wasnt satisfied that the dates that were used in the calculations best reflected what I 
thought should realistically have happened. So I said Magus should carry out a different 
calculation, based on different dates, to account for what I said was a 13 day delay caused 
by its instruction to pause the process on 10 March 2020. Magus doesnt accept the redress 
formula for the reasons I gave earlier, but I still believe the redress I proposed is the most 
appropriate way to put Mr O as close as possible to the position he would now be in. 
I understand Magus frustration that the period Mr Os complaint has been with this service 
will ultimately increase any compensation it has to pay Mr O by bringing the loss up to the 
date of the decision, rather than the July 2020 date that was originally used. 
But, while any delays in reaching a decision here were regrettable, there were many reasons 
for this, including the need to request further calculations and to make further investigations 
to establish what had happened. 
And the outcome of our investigation is different, in terms of the redress calculation proposal, 
to that originally proposed by Magus. Its important for this service to fully complete an 
investigation to ensure we reach the right outcome in every case. In this complaint Im satisfied that any redress Mr O might receive will accurately reflect both the initial financial 
loss and the ongoing loss caused by the original problem. 
Magus also proposed an overall solution to this issue whereby it and Standard Life 
compensate a proportionate amount of any loss according to the number of days delay each 
caused. It also believed this solution would mitigate the issue of it paying disproportionate 
compensation because the period of delay Ive referred to covers the worst of any 
investment losses. 
Ive thought very carefully about these proposals and I understand why Magus has put them 
forward. Its also suggested that any losses identified in its calculation should be offset by 
any gains within Standard Lifes calculation so that Mr O doesnt benefit overall from 
financial gains. 
And so, I asked the investigator to email both parties explaining that I have considered the 
alternatives here, and I accept the merit of Magus proposal for a proportionate resolution 
according to the number of days of delay each business is responsible for. But that would 
rely on both Magus and Standard Life working together after the decision is issued  with all 
the complications involved in determining the detail of a joint calculation. I think the 
practicalities of such a resolution would, in practice, make it almost impossible to enforce 
and would be more likely to leave Mr O with no common outcome or at best an outcome 
which doesnt satisfactorily reflect the position he ought now to be in without the overall 
delays.  
However, while I didnt consider the proposal of the above calculation was workable, I 
nevertheless considered the proposal for any gain calculated by Standard Life to be offset 
against any loss calculated by Magus to be fair and reasonable.
This was on the condition that Magus would need to accept the calculation undertaken by 
Standard Life  otherwise, the same potential problems as with the apportionment proposal 
may well materialise. I also provided my proposed redress calculation to Standard Life for 
Magus to consider.
In response, Magus reiterated its view that it didnt think it was responsible for any of the 
delays caused. But with regards to the proposed redress calculation specifically, it said it 
didnt understand the calculation I had proposed that Standard Life should carry out  but in 
general it reiterated its position that any loss that might be established should be met by 
splitting the loss between 13 days responsibility to Magus and 12 to Standard life. 
I know Magus expected a response to the other points it had made following the provisional 
decision when I asked for its comments on the proposed alteration to the redress. But Ive 
covered those points within this decision  as I said I would and is our normal approach. But 
Magus hasnt persuaded me to change my mind about the revised redress proposal  so Ive 
set out below what I think should happen. 
 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he his SIPP assets had been sold earlier and the transfer then processed 
accordingly.
What must Magus do?There is a total delay period in this matter of 25 days, from 27 February 2020 until the
23 March 2020  the date on which Magus provided confirmation to ASC that Mr Os
holdings should be sold. But Magus is only responsible for a proportion of this  from
10 March 2020 to 23 March 2020, the point at which it confirmed to ASC that it
should proceed. This is a period of 13 days.
To compensate Mr O fairly, Magus should therefore calculate the notional value of Mr Os 
SIPP, as at the date of any final decision, had the holdings been sold 13 days before they 
were, and then reinvested 13 days before they actually were.
Magus should compare this notional value with the actual value of Mr Os SIPP at the
same date of this final decision. From this amount should be deducted the value of any gain 
if applicable, at the date of this decision, as determined by the calculation undertaken by 
Standard Life. 
If there is an overall loss, Magus should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the loss and any interest (as set out below). The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Magus is unable to pay the total amount into Mr O's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr O wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I assumed this to be basic rate in the provisional 
decision, and neither party has disputed this. And so the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall deduction of 15%.
Additional interest at the rate of 8% simple per year should be added to any loss from the 
date of this final decision to settlement if the complaint isnt settled within 28 days of Magus 
receiving notification of Mr Os acceptance.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Magus deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. Magus should give Mr O a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr O asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Magus Private Wealth Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Magus Private Wealth Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr O in a clear, 
understandable format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman