DRN-1179417
The complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds Bank PLC didn't let him know about interest rate changes on his 
current and deposit accounts.
What happened
Mr M had accounts with Lloyds over a number of years. He says Lloyds didn't let him know 
when the interest on his accounts changed and, as a consequence, he missed out on the 
opportunity to look for a better deal. He says this has caused him some financial loss.
Mr M complained to Lloyds and it explained it had regularly sent him statements and interest 
notifications to the address it held on file and had also advised him electronically to his 
online banking account.
Mr M remained unhappy, and he brought his complaint to this service. He said he hadn't 
received any notification of interest rate changes from Lloyds despite what it said. He also 
said he knew some of Lloyds' customers had been affected by a problem that resulted in 
certain notifications not being sent.
Our investigator said he was satisfied from the evidence Lloyds supplied that the 
notifications had been sent and Mr M wasn't one of the customers affected by the problem 
he'd identified. 
Mr M remained unhappy, and he asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I've reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I know Mr M is likely to be disappointed by this, so I'll explain my reasoning.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal 
formality. That means I'll focus on what I consider lies at the crux of a complaint and 
that might mean I don't address every point made by the parties unless it's relevant to the 
decision I need to make.
In this case, Lloyds has provided evidence to demonstrate it has regularly sent, over the time 
period in question, letters and statements detailing interest rate changes to Mr M at the 
address it held on file. This is the same address as he provided to this service for 
correspondence relating to this complaint. This is what I'd expect Lloyds to do.
It's also confirmed all consumers impacted by the problem Mr M identified were contacted 
and the problem resolved. But Mr M wasn't one of the consumers affected.
So, on balance, it seems to me more likely than not the various notifications were sent to Mr 
M. This service takes the view that where a business has been able to demonstrate it's sent correspondence to the correct address, it's not fair or reasonable to hold it responsible for 
the information not being received.
It's not for me to speculate about why Mr M may not have received correspondence that's 
been correctly addressed, so he may wish to make enquiries of the Post Office if he 
wishes to pursue this issue.
Lloyds has also said Mr M was informed via his online banking account about the various 
interest rate changes during the period. I think it was reasonable Lloyds used this as an 
additional way of keeping Mr M informed. I don't think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
hold Lloyds responsible for Mr M not accessing the information via this service. 
In summary, I won't be asking Lloyds to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman