DRN-4002093
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service provided by The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) when he tried to make a claim on the personal accident 
section of his bespoke insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr A and NFU. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr A had a bespoke insurance policy with NFU. This policy covered a range of risks, 
including (but not limited to) buildings, public liability, legal expenses, home emergency and 
personal accident. In 2021 he contacted NFU to enquire about making a claim under the 
personal accident section of cover, following a change in his medical circumstances.  He 
was told he would be able to make a claim - but this information was incorrect. 
Mr A raised a complaint about the information he was given and the impact on him. NFU 
responded and partially upheld his complaint. They accepted that their adviser had given 
wrong information and offered Mr A £150 in recognition of their error. Mr A felt that his claim 
should be honoured. He then referred his complaint to our Service for an independent 
review.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As Mr A 
didnt accept, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
I note in response to our Investigators assessment Mr A has made references to this policy 
not being be-spoke (tailored to his personal circumstances). My decision wont be 
addressing this point as it wasnt part of the complaint referred to our Service for 
consideration. Mr A has another complaint with our Service about these issues. 
Does the incorrect information given to Mr A constitute a verbal contract/agreement?
Although I understand the arguments that Mr A is making, in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint, the answer to this question/test is no. I say this because the information given 
to him was as a result of a human error. It was not an intentional action designed to mislead 
Mr A. It was quickly identified and the situation clarified. For Mr As arguments to succeed, 
Id need to be persuaded that the contract of insurance he had previously entered into with 
NFU is over ridden by the NFU agents error and the policy terms and conditions set aside  
and Im not persuaded that is the case.
Therefore, as the original contract of insurance remained in place, any claim needed to 
satisfy the terms and conditions of that insurance contract. In this case, Mr As claim could 
not succeed as his claim arose out of something that wasnt covered by the policy. By this I 
mean the cause of him needing to claim (ill health not caused by violent criminal assault) 
wasnt something covered under his policy terms. 
Do NFU need to do anything further to put things right?
NFU have apologised for any trouble or upset caused by the information given and then not 
calling Mr A when their error came to light. Theyve also offered Mr A £150 to apologise. 
I find their response to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. Of course, this avoidable 
situation will have caused Mr A annoyance and loss of expectation. As Ive already found, it 
was caused by a simple human error and Im satisfied that NFUs response is sufficient. 
Its also unfortunate that Mr A received notification of the error in writing rather than by a 
phone call (given his personal circumstances), but I dont find that NFU need to do anything 
further in relation to this point.  
My decision will naturally disappoint Mr A, but it brings to an end our Services involvement 
in trying to informally resolve his dispute with NFU.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman