DRN-4047491
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) didnt do enough to 
protect him from the loss of money to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr S has explained that in April 2022 he made the following payments from his BOS account 
to fund what he thought was a legitimate investment with a merchant Ill call G. The first 
payment was made by debit card to a merchant Ill call C, and the rest were push payments 
to Skrill.
Payment number Date Amount (£)
1 11 April 2022 200
2 14 April 2022 15
3 21 April 2022 1,670
4 21 April 2022 2,340
5 27 April 2022 5,620
Total 9,845
Mr S later got in touch with BOS to report hed been scammed. BOS refunded Mr S £3,980 
(half of payments three and four combined); and it paid him a further £111.33 and £150 
respectively in interest and for service issues. Mr S remained unhappy and referred his 
complaint about BOS to our service. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter 
informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Ss reference to other decisions made at our service but I must decide this case on 
its own individual merits. Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for 
materially the same reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry if Mr S lost money to a scam but this doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund 
from BOS. It would only be fair for me to tell BOS to reimburse Mr S if I thought it reasonably 
ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr S authorised the relevant payments. BOS would generally be expected to 
process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr S is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as 
a matter of good industry practice BOS should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments made 
by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and 
check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments. 
In this case BOS didnt call Mr S before allowing the payments through (which I consider to 
be the only way BOS reasonably might have been able to prevent Mr S losing the money to 
the scam). So Ive therefore considered whether I think BOS ought reasonably to have done 
so  to have called Mr S  to discuss any of the payments before it processed the 
instructions.
I take on board Mr Ss submissions on this. But the prior activity on his BOS account is an 
important consideration in deciding whether the scam payments were sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account such that BOS ought reasonably to have paused any of 
them, pending further enquiries, before allowing them through. Mr S has referenced his 
largest regular monthly payments preceding the scam as being £1,200. However, he did 
make payments of: £7,000 and £10,000 in October 2021; £30,000 on 6 April 2022; and 
£6,800 on 11 April 2022 (after the payment to C but before the payments to Skrill). These 
previous legitimate payments are relevant in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.  
The first two payments (of £200 and £15) were too small, and otherwise insufficiently 
remarkable or suspicious, for me to reasonably say BOS ought to have been obliged to have 
called and spoken with Mr S before allowing the payments through. 
The third, fourth and fifth payments (of £1,670, £2,340 and £5,620) were larger. And I take 
on board what Mr S has said about them, including his points that these were for a recently 
set up new payee with links to cryptocurrency. However, not all payments for cryptocurrency 
are the result of a scam, so Im not persuaded I can reasonably say BOS ought 
automatically to have called Mr S before allowing these payments through just because they 
were heading to Skrill. Instead, I dont think it unreasonable to say there would have been a 
picture of Mr Ss account previously sometimes being used to make payments for much 
larger amounts than this. And whilst payments three and four (totalling £4,010) were made a 
day apart from each other, the fifth payment (for £5,620) wasnt then made until almost a 
week later. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say these payments ought to have 
looked sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious such that BOS ought to have been 
obliged to have paused them, pending enquiries with Mr S before allowing them through. 
This means Im not satisfied BOS unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the 
payments.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect BOS to have done anything 
further until Mr S notified it of the scam. Then, the only potential avenue to recover the first 
payment made by debit card would have been via the chargeback scheme. However, Mr S 
made the payment from his debit card to C (and not directly to the scammers). This means 
the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would be C (and not the scammers). I havent seen sufficient evidence that a chargeback against C would likely have succeeded. And in 
any event, I note that the overall refund already provided by BOS substantially exceeds this. 
And with regards to the push payments (payments two to five), Mr S didnt instruct BOS to 
send the payments directly to the scammers but instead to a Skrill account held in his own 
name. Thats what BOS did. I dont think it was ever likely that BOS would be able to 
facilitate recovery of the payments after they were moved on from Mr Ss Skrill account to 
the scammers. So I dont think I can hold BOS responsible for Mr S being unable to recover 
his funds. 
I realise this means Mr S is out of pocket. And Im sorry hes lost money. However, I think 
the refund and compensation BOS has already provided him is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman