DRN-3234656
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) have refused to refund money he lost as part 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr F was contacted by a company (which he now knows to have been a scammer) called 
Alter Capital Investment Group (ACIG) in March 2019. They contacted him by phone to 
discuss investment opportunities, which Mr F said he had been researching on social media 
recently (albeit without giving his details to any companies). 
Mr F was talked into an initial investment of £518.03 in cryptocurrency upon ACIGs 
recommendation, with a company called Starlink Investments. He said he had no reason to 
doubt the legitimacy of the company or investment and that everything appeared 
professional. His initial investment also appeared to be showing a profit within a short time 
period. 
Over the next six months, Mr F was persuaded to invest more of his money through 
transactions with initial coin offerings based overseas, including Starlink, CB Payments 
(Coinbase) and Bitstamp, totalling £117,382.87 (not including any international transfer 
fees): 
Date Type of transaction / 
LocationAmount Remaining 
Balance
15/03/2019 Foreign payment £518.03 £436.97
19/03/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£4,000 £4,586.19
20/03/2019 Foreign Payment £4,000 £586.19
04/04/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£10,000 £11,515.38
05/04/2019 Foreign Payment £8,778.85 £2735.53
07/05/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£5,000 £6153.70
08/05/2019 Foreign Payment  
payment stopped by Lloyds£88.39 £5971.31
09/05/2019 Foreign Payment £5162.84 £780.97
22/05/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£5,000 £5,473.47
23/05/2019 Foreign Payment £5,000.91 £472.56
06/06/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£10,000 £11,154.87
07/06/2019 Foreign Payment £10,332.42 £539.45
07/06/2019 £10,332.42 payment 
returned as £9775 due to 
conversion from EUR back 
to to GBP+£9775
13/06/2019 Foreign Payment £10,240 £576.45
26/06/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£13,000 £13,940.90
27/06/2019 Foreign Payment £15,500.51 £899.90 DR
25/07/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£10,000 £12,807.88
26/07/2019 Foreign Payment £10,354.07 £2,453.81
14/08/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£7,000 £43,586.05
15/08/2019 Foreign Payment £21,946.56 £21,470.99
16/08/2019 Foreign Payment £20,235.29 £1,126.65
30/08/2019 Incoming transfer from 
INTAGLIO PRINT SOL£15,000 £15,855.91
02/09/2019 Foreign Payment £15,000 £730.39
Total =
£117,382.87
Mr F said he was able to view his investments online via a trading platform, which appeared 
to be making a profit. He said he had control over his trading accounts, and that he had 
created the passwords for these accounts. Mr F says he was in regular communication with 
a person called Samantha from ACIG who was advising him on where and how to invest 
further sums. He says that on some occasions he was locked out his accounts and was told 
that he would have to invest more money in order to be given access. 
Mr F eventually realised he had been scammed in September 2019 when he was unable to 
access his trading platform to view his investments. He discovered that all of his 
cryptocurrency had been transferred out of his account, and he could no longer get hold of 
Samantha or anyone at ACIG, at which point he contacted Lloyds and subsequently Action 
Fraud to report the scam. 
After reporting the matter to Lloyds, the bank said they were unable to recover any of the 
funds he had sent as the overseas bank(s) said no money remained on the platform. He 
complained as he said that Lloyds should have prevented the transactions and stopped the 
money being sent to the scammer. Mr F says there were missed opportunities where Lloyds 
could have intervened, particularly when he called Lloyds on 8 May 2019 when he was 
unable to make a payment to the scammer from his online banking, which the bank said that 
it suspected of being fraudulent. He acknowledges that they questioned him about the 
payment, which he confirmed was genuine, but he does not think their enquiries went far 
enough. 
Some of the money Mr F transferred to the scammer was also part funded by a £35,000 loan 
he took out with Lloyds in August 2019, which he says was unaffordable and irresponsible of 
the bank to have lent him.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It acknowledged that foreign transactions were 
unusual for his account but said it had informed him of the potential scams involved with 
cryptocurrency investments, but that he still wanted to proceed with the payment regardless. 
It said that he hadnt carried out any checks to verify that the company offering the 
investment was genuine. Lloyds also didnt think it had lent to Mr F irresponsibly as he had 
passed all their credit checks and lending criteria, so there was no reason for them to think 
that the loan would have been unaffordable. 
Our investigator also didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She didnt think that Lloyds could have 
identified that the payments were being sent to a scammer, and also said that the cause of 
Mr Fs loss was the money being transferred from his investment platform (of which he had control) to the fraudster, rather than it being directly transferred to the fraudster from his 
Lloyds account. The investigator also wasnt persuaded that Lloyds had lent to Mr F 
irresponsibly. Mr F disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. I said I didnt intend 
upholding Mr Fs complaint and set out the following reasoning:
It isnt in dispute that Mr F has lost the money he invested. But the question I must 
consider here is the extent to which Lloyds can be considered liable for his loss. I 
must also consider whether the bank did all that they ought to have done when Mr F 
reported that he had been defrauded. In this particular case Im not persuaded that 
Lloyds should refund him the amount he lost.
It is common ground that Mr F authorised the payments he made in 2019, even 
though he was duped into making them by ACIG as part of a sophisticated scam. He 
used his security credentials to request the international transfers online and, in 
broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the customers account. And under the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, Mr F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Mr F submits that Lloyds should refund the money he lost under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which applies to payments made from 28 May 
2019. However, the CRM Code only applies to authorised push payments made 
between two accounts held in the UK, and both accounts must be denominated in 
pounds sterling. In this instance, all of the transactions Mr F made were international 
transfers made to overseas accounts denominated in Euros. Therefore, the CRM 
Code does not apply to these transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I 
consider that Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In the context of this scam, Mr F transferred funds from his Lloyds account to a 
cryptocurrency exchange account, which he says he was in control of and was the 
only one who held the password. It therefore isnt clear how the scammer was able to 
drain his crypto account of its funds if that was the case. The only potential options 
are that the scammers helped him set up his crypto account and also knew the 
password; he gave them the passwords to his account; or he was duped into 
transferring his cryptocurrency to the fraudster from his account. Given that Mr Fs loss didnt materialise directly from his Lloyds account, our 
investigator said that the bank couldnt be held liable because their failure to 
intervene couldnt be described as the dominant and effective cause of the loss, 
given that he had first transferred money to another account in which he had control. 
But even though Mr F was transferring funds to crypto accounts in his name, I still 
consider that Lloyds ought to have taken a closer look at the payments he was 
making  given the significant risk of fraud associated with cryptocurrency 
investments at the time.
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-
2018. And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in 
frequency. So, by the time Mr F started making his investments in March 2019, I 
think Lloyds ought reasonably to have had a good enough understanding of how 
crypto scams works  including the fact that their customer often moves money to an 
account in their own name before moving it on again to the fraudster. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Lloyds shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud at the time Mr F was making his payments, and that it 
should have led to them intervening in order to ask further questions about the 
payments (as they did in fact do, which I will come on to later). So I dont think its 
correct to say that Lloyds cannot be held liable at all for Mr Fs loss simply because 
he made the transfers into an account in his name that he controlled.   
In terms of whether Lloyds should have done more to identify Mr Fs transactions as 
potentially being fraudulent, it is common ground that there were fraud triggers in this 
case because Lloyds did in fact intervene when they prevented a payment of £88.39 
from being made on 8 May 2019. Lloyds said that foreign transactions were unusual 
for Mr Fs account, and when they spoke to him on 8 May 2019, they said they 
thought it might have been a scam. It is therefore arguable that Lloyds should have 
intervened earlier (such as when Mr F made a £4,000 payment on 20 March 2019, 
for example). However, even if Lloyds had intervened sooner, I still dont think any 
such intervention would have likely made any difference or have ultimately prevented 
Mr F from falling victim to the scam. Ill explain why.
When Lloyds blocked the £88.39 payment on 8 May 2019, Mr F got in contact with 
them by phone to see why they hadnt processed his transaction. Lloyds told Mr F 
that they thought there was a chance the payment could be fraudulent, and went on 
to warn him about the risks involved with the payment he was making:
So we thought there was a chance the payment could be fraudulent and 
would like to remind you that once you send the money you will not get it 
back. The reason why we are telling you that is sometimes customers are 
scammed by fraudsters for investment purposes or for fraudulent purposes 
and we cannot get your money back or refund you if you fall for these scams. 
I am going to describe the nature of some of the scams and we just advise 
that you listen carefully and answer truthfully as if it is fraud we will not be 
able to recover your money OK. 
Lloyds went on to describe the very type of scam Mr F was falling victim to:
sometimes fraudsters give you an opportunity to invest your money in 
cryptocurrency, but they are entirely in control of the receiving account and 
you never receive a return on your investment. It is entirely risky in terms of 
how you make the payment, not the investment itself.Lloyds then questioned Mr F about how he happened to come across the investment 
he was making when they asked:
This payment of cryptocurrency to CB Payments. Has somebody contacted 
you offering an investment opportunity, or did you sort them out yourself?
Mr F answered this by saying:
It is mostly myself. Yes. I opened a Coinbase account myself.
So, Mr F was warned about precisely the type of scam he was falling victim to, and 
Lloyds even set out how it typically unfolds (i.e. with investments in cryptocurrency 
where the investor will never receive a return). He was also specifically asked 
whether he had been approached by anyone about the investment, or whether he 
found it himself. But despite having been contacted out of the blue by ACIG about the 
investment, Mr F still wrongly answered mostly myself and therefore did not provide 
full disclosure. 
It is not clear why Mr F gave this answer, since he was in regular contact with the 
scammer (Samantha) who had seemingly persuaded him to invest further sums in 
crypto exchanges. He says he didnt fully understand the question being asked of 
him. But having listened to the call, it was clear what Lloyds were asking him; there 
was no ambiguity or apparent issues with the phone line connection. So, considering 
this objectively, Im not persuaded that he wouldnt have understood what he was 
being asked. 
Mr F says that Lloyds ought to have probed further because he said mostly myself. 
However, Mr F had reassured them that it was he who had set up the account, and 
he who was in control of the passwords. He said he had his own crypto wallet and his 
own log in details. So despite being asked if somebody else was doing this for him, 
he gave Lloyds no reason to believe that anybody else was involved, despite 
knowing that he had been approached by a company that was unknown to him, who 
was coaching him into making these investments. This was why the bank was 
satisfied that the payment wasnt likely being made as part of a scam, and Im 
satisfied Lloyds asked appropriate questions about the nature of the payments, which 
were ultimately led by the answers Mr F gave.  
I note that Lloyds also told Mr F at the beginning of the call to listen carefully and 
answer truthfully. If he had answered the question accurately and told Lloyds that he 
had been approached by an unsolicited broker, then I accept it would have been 
incumbent on Lloyds to maintain suspicion about the payment and to explore these 
circumstances further. But seeing as he didnt confirm that anyone else was involved 
and said it was mostly himself, I dont think there was any failing on the banks part to 
probe any further into how he came to be making the investment in the first place.
I appreciate that Mr F may not feel that the example given as part of the warning by 
the Lloyds agent was relevant to him, as he thought that he was in control of his 
crypto account. But it seems most likely that the fraudster also had some degree of 
control or access to his account, otherwise they wouldnt have been able to drain all 
of his cryptocurrency. So I dont agree that the warning given by Lloyds was not at all 
relevant to his circumstances. 
So, based on the answers Mr F gave during the phone call of 8 May 2019, I dont 
think there was any further cause for Lloyds to be concerned that he was at risk of falling victim to a scam, and I dont consider there was anything more they couldve 
reasonably done to prevent Mr F from continuing to make the payments to the 
scammers. Therefore, Im not persuaded that any earlier intervention by Lloyds at 
any point would have made a difference or yielded a different outcome, because 
there is nothing to suggest that Mr F would have provided different answers to the 
questions he was asked. So in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold Lloyds liable for failing to intervene sooner, because it seems 
most likely that any intervention would not have prevented the scam from unfolding. 
In terms of the payments made after 8 May 2019, Mr F had already confirmed to 
Lloyds that these sort of international transfers were legitimate. So, there was 
consequently no reason for the bank to suspect that any of the later payments he 
was making to his crypto exchange were potentially fraudulent either, meaning there 
was no obligation on them to intervene in any of these subsequent payments either.
In terms of Lloyds attempts to recover the money, Mr F reported the scam to them 
on 16 September 2019 after he was unable to access his trading platform to view his 
investments and discovered that all his cryptocurrency was gone. I can see that 
Lloyds raised a claim with the relevant beneficiary institutions overseas on the same 
day, but all they received were responses saying that all the credited funds had been 
fully utilised and moved off the platform. So I dont think there was anything more 
Lloyds could have done in these circumstances to have recovered the money Mr F 
transferred, as it appears that it had already been moved from the beneficiary 
accounts by the time the fraud was reported.
In summary, having taken all the evidence and arguments into consideration, Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or reasonably be held liable for Mr Fs loss in these 
circumstances, so I do not intend asking them to refund the money he transferred. 
Irresponsible lending
Mr F further submits that Lloyds should not have approved his application for a 
£35,000 loan, which he used in part to invest in the cryptocurrency that has since 
been stolen by the scammers. Lloyds have said that Mr F passed all its credit checks 
and that he had sufficient points on their scoring system to qualify for a loan. He was 
employed at the time, with an income of over £7,000 per month, and had no adverse 
credit history that would indicate he should not be approved for the loan, or that he 
wouldnt have been able to afford the repayments.
Mr F says that Lloyds should have taken his age into account, and the fact that he 
might not be employed indefinitely. But the same would apply to all prospective loan 
applicants, irrespective of their age. The fact is that at the time he applied for the 
loan, Mr F had a regular income through his employment, which he seemingly had no 
plans to give up in the near future. He also had no other regular financial 
commitments such as mortgage repayments. So I dont consider there was anything 
to indicate that the loan would have been unaffordable for him, or that it was 
irresponsible of them to lend it to him. 
As a result, I do not intend asking Lloyds to take any further action with regards to the 
administration or repayment of Mr Fs loan.
I invited further comments and arguments from both parties. Lloyds responded accepting my 
provisional decision, but Mr F disagreed and sent in his reasons for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made a number of points in response to my provisional decision, and Ive carefully 
considered everything he has sent in. But I dont intend to respond in similar detail. My 
provisional decision sets out in full my reasons for not upholding the complaint and those 
reasons still remain. 
So, Ill focus on what I consider to be the main points he has raised in response to my 
provisional decision. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because 
I havent seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to reference it 
again in order to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I also note that Mr F does not like the use of certain terminology within my decision, such as 
any description of him having transferred money to a scammer. I do not dispute that Mr F 
was unaware that he was being scammed at the time, but I use the term scammer and 
ACIG interchangeably, since it is now known that they were scammers. So I am not in any 
way implying that Mr F knew he was transferring money to a scammer; the term is simply 
used for ease of reference based on the facts as we know now them to be.  
I also appreciate Mr Fs clarification of certain points that were set out in the background of 
my provisional decision, which I have taken on board. However, it doesnt change the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision, as the points he has raised are not material to 
the outcome of his complaint. 
Mr F says he does not understand why his complaint isnt being upheld when failings have 
been identified in Lloyds handling of the matter, such as them failing to intervene earlier 
when theyve acknowledged that the payments were unusual. However, the fact that failings 
have been identified does not necessarily mean that liability instantly rests with the bank. As 
I set out in my provisional decision, Id have to be persuaded that any such failure to 
intervene by the bank would have ultimately made a difference and prevented Mr Fs loss. In 
other words, the failure to intervene must have caused the loss. In this instance, despite 
there being apparent shortcomings in Lloyds monitoring of the payments being made from 
Mr Fs account, I dont think this can be described as the dominant and effective cause of his 
loss because when they did intervene, it still didnt prevent him from making the payment to 
the scammer. Therefore, I dont think any earlier intervention would have produced a 
different outcome or have prevented the payments from being made either.
Mr F said he only proceeded with the payments as he felt Lloyds had given him the green 
light that he wasnt being scammed. I appreciate he may have felt reassured after his 
conversation with the bank. But the only reason Lloyds were able to give any assurances 
here is because of what Mr F had told them. He says that his answers need to be construed 
in light of the ambiguity surrounding the questions he was asked, as he did not understand 
what was being asked of him. He says, for example, that he thought the bank was asking 
him specifically about the opening of the Coinbase account, which he confirmed he did open 
himself. But as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not consider that Lloyds questions 
were objectively ambiguous or unclear in this respect. He was clearly asked if he has been 
contacted by somebody offering an investment opportunity but failed to disclose that he had. 
So Im still not persuaded there was any material failing on Lloyds part or any obligation on 
them to probe further in these circumstances, which is why I dont think that any earlier 
intervention would have made any difference or have yielded any different answers from 
Mr F that would have led to the scam being prevented. 
Mr F says that Lloyds only attempted to recover funds from the overseas institutions on two of the transactions he made, as the letters they sent to him only referenced two payments. I 
understand he may not have received a recovery letter for each transaction from Lloyds. But 
given the beneficiary institutions had confirmed that no funds remained on either of the 
platforms used, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably by failing to send a separate letter 
for each payment he made, particularly as they were all seemingly made as part of the same 
scam. 
I can see, for example, that Lloyds contacted each of the overseas beneficiary institutions 
related to the payments he had made. With regards to CB Payments, the response stated:
Our customer has rejected the recall request with the following reason: All credited 
funds have been fully utilised and moved off the platform
In relation to the Starlink consulting payment, the response similarly stated:
The funds can not be sent back because the funds have been sent to another bank 
abroad. Also the clients account have [sic] been terminated. 
And for the Bitstamp payment, the response also stated:
We forwarded your request to the [beneficiary] since the funds were already credited 
to his [account]. Please be advised that [the beneficiary] refuses to return the funds 
stating that the funds were already used by the client who is also remitter.
Therefore, based on what Lloyds had been told by each of the overseas beneficiary 
institutions, I dont think there was any use or obligation on them to raise multiple payment 
recall requests for each and every payment Mr F had made. The fraud had been reported 
two weeks after the last payment was sent, and its clear that no money remained on either 
of the platforms, based on the response from each of the beneficiary institutions. Therefore, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds took appropriate action to try and recover Mr Fs funds, and I dont 
think they couldve done anything more in the circumstances. 
I sympathise with Mr F in these circumstances and the loss he has suffered, as he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. But for the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
can fairly and reasonably be held liable for the money he has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman