DRN-3591424
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society provided poor service as it declined a 
credit card transaction when he had already called and confirmed the same transaction was 
genuine.  
What happened
On 11 February 2022 Mr G made an online payment with his credit card. It declined and a 
block was placed on his account. He then spoke to Nationwide and confirmed the payment 
was genuine. He was told the payment would then succeed so tried again, but it failed due to 
a higher-level block being triggered. It succeeded when he called after the second decline 
and the second block was lifted.  
Mr G says Nationwides fraud system must be inherently flawed if a transaction can be 
declined for a second time when the accountholder has just confirmed it to be genuine. As 
this is poor service his subsequent complaint to Nationwide should have been upheld. He 
wants compensation for his time that was wasted and for the stress this caused.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said whilst she appreciated some 
inconvenience was caused for Mr G, Nationwide had explained that it had correctly followed 
its fraud prevention processes and we would not interfere in such policies by asking it to 
change them. So she would not be asking it to make a compensation payment.
Mr G disagreed with this assessment. He said Nationwide hadnt upheld his complaint about 
the poor service its anti-fraud policy caused as it was following its process, and this seemed 
illogical. He was given incorrect information as the payment declined twice. This was poor 
service and so a complaint about poor service must uphold. Mr G asserts Nationwide knew 
the second attempt would decline, and asks how it would be more certain the transaction 
would be genuine after the second call. He thinks its system is configured to provide poor 
customer service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G is unhappy that one call to Nationwide could not have resolved all the issues and all 
the checks that were needed for the payment to be authorised. He sees this as poor service 
and says this means his complaint must be upheld. But Nationwide explained every 
transaction is reviewed individually and this can mean a payment might be stopped more 
than once as there are different levels of checks. And the reason for the block will determine 
whether it needs to be an inbound or outbound call to the fraud team. In this instance the 
blocks were applied by two different teams. It wasnt the case, as Mr G has interpreted it, 
that the adviser on the first call would have known the second block would be triggered. 
So, overall, whilst the process may not have delivered the customer experience Mr G would 
hope for, as I find the societys sole motivation was to protect Mr Gs account from fraud I 
cant fairly find it should compensate him for the time he had to spend on the phone or the 
stress this caused him.   
Mr G argues what happened must mean Nationwides fraud prevention system is flawed. But 
our remit is to decide whether a business has made an error in applying a policy or process, 
rather than to investigate the policy or process itself. It is the role of the regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority) to review systemic issues, as we have no powers to do so I 
cannot comment further on his view. 
It follows I have not found Nationwide acted in error and so I am not instructing Nationwide 
to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman