DRN-3952803
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly 
declined their mortgage application at the Decision in Principle (DIP) stage. As a result, they 
were unable to port (transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a mortgage on a new 
property, and paid an early repayment charge (ERC) of £5,500, which they want NatWest to 
reimburse. Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy at the way NatWest dealt with their complaint.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite short.
In July 2022 Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with NatWest, on which they owed approximately 
£188,500. The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate until 31 October 2024. If the mortgage 
was redeemed before that date, an ERC would be charged. However, the mortgage interest 
rate product could be ported onto a new property, subject to a new application meeting 
NatWests lending criteria, including credit checks.
Mr and Mrs S decided to move house and take out additional borrowing, increasing their 
mortgage to £220,000. Through their mortgage broker, an application was made to NatWest 
for a DIP. However, on 22 July 2022 this was declined.
Mr and Mrs S couldnt understand why this had happened, as their credit reports showed no 
adverse entries. It appeared that this might be related to Mr Ss ex-wife still being linked to 
him at a previous address. Mr and Mrs S took steps to correct this, but NatWest wasnt able 
to go ahead on the application.
Mr and Mrs S were already committed to selling their property, and so on redemption of the 
mortgage on 13 October 2022 they had to pay an ERC of £5,500. Because they werent able 
to port the interest rate product onto a new mortgage, NatWest has declined to reimburse 
this.
Mr and Mrs S complained, initially through their broker. NatWest didnt initially register the 
complaint until it was chased up. In its final response letter, NatWest didnt uphold the 
complaint about the decline of the DIP, but offered £200 for poor complaint handling.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept this and brought their complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint about the DIP should be upheld. 
He also explained that, although complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity (and therefore 
not covered under our rules), he thought the £200 offered for poor complaint-handling was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Theyve reiterated their 
concerns about the decline of the DIP. Theyve also pointed out that they have now bought 
another property with a mortgage from NatWest, which they say reinforces their belief that 
NatWest hadnt treated them fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the available documentation, including credit reports. NatWests records of the 
DIP dont show why the DIP was declined, because once it expired it dropped off the banks 
system. The staff member at NatWest with whom Mr and Mrs Ss broker was liaising thought 
that the reason was because Mr Ss ex-wife was still showing as an associate on one of the 
credit reference agencies records - Equifax. 
Its possible that this was the case, because Ive also looked at Mr Ss Equifax credit report. I 
note that the NatWest credit search is shown on 22 July 2022. But the credit report also 
shows that, at an address linked to Mr S, between 14-17 June 2022 there were four 
searches carried out by lenders that offer short-term credit (also known as payday loans), 
and two more searches from similar lenders on 6 July 2022. 
Mr S asked Equifax to remove the link to his old addresses from his credit file. However, 
Equifax explained that You can ask to take a linked address off your record if theres no 
relevant information for you at the address. If there are credit agreements in your name at 
the address well need to ask the company to move these accounts before we delete the 
address link .
After looking into Mr Ss request to remove the linked addresses, Equifax noted that there 
were settled accounts on the credit report at that address, and the information relating to 
those accounts would remain on the credit file for six years from the date of settlement. 
Equifax also said that one business had declined to remove the link. Mr S said that he didnt 
think the account in question belonged to him, but Equifax said that hed need to contact the 
business to resolve that issue.
I am not looking at the actions of Equifax here, or of any other lenders. But I think that it is 
more likely than not that these entries  and particularly the searches made by payday 
lenders at an address linked to Mr S  will have affected the outcome of NatWests credit 
search, leading to a decline. 
I can appreciate how disappointing this must have been for Mr and Mrs S. If this had been a 
like-for-like port of the same amount as their existing mortgage, it is likely NatWest would 
have allowed it to go ahead, as the regulations allow the bank to allow a port without 
considering affordability if there is no extra borrowing. 
However, given that Mr and Mrs S wanted to borrow more money, Im satisfied NatWest was 
allowed to take into account the information shown on the credit searches. NatWest was 
also entitled to treat this information as accurate. Given this, Im not persuaded NatWest 
acted unreasonably in declining the DIP. As I said above, the precise reason why the DIP 
was declined has now dropped off NatWests system, but the available evidence leads me to 
conclude that it was in all likelihood declined for the reasons given above.Mr and Mrs S had already committed to sell their home before the DIP was declined, and so 
it was unavoidable that they had to pay the ERC when they redeemed the mortgage. But in 
all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that NatWest acted unreasonably or unfairly; the 
mortgage contract set out the circumstances in which the ERC would be payable. Because it 
wasnt possible for Mr and Mrs S to port the mortgage interest rate product, NatWest was 
entitled to charge the ERC.
Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy about the way their complaint was handled. The way a 
business deals with a complaint isnt a regulated activity, nor is it ancillary to a regulated 
activity. This means its not covered under our rules, and so I have no jurisdiction to consider 
this matter. I note NatWest offered £200 compensation for its complaint-handling, but as I 
have no legal power to consider it, I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs S to decide if they want to 
accept this in full and final settlement of their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman