DRN-3632571
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as P has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unfairly turned
down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr R, a director of P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of P.
Reference to QEL also includes its agent. 
What happened
P held a business interruption insurance policy with QEL. P claimed on its policy after its
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
QEL turned down Ps claim as they said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They
added that while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the
diseases covered.
Unhappy with QELs response, P brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should be
covered under different sections of the policy.
Damage and Denial of Access
P said it had an all-risks policy and the definition of damage in the core business 
interruption section is wide enough to cover losses flowing from Covid-19 and the resulting 
closure of its business. P said it had a reasonable expectation of being covered as there 
arent any exclusions for a pandemic. P has also referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory 
Mutual Insurance Company (2020) in support of why its claim should be paid.
P said the extension for denial of access should also provide cover for the same reasons.
Disease
P said the list of diseases set out in this extension of the policy arent an exhaustive list and
theres nothing in the policy to say that new diseases cant be added or are excluded. P said
the list of diseases is very similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and
therefore its reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. P said that as there
had been cases of Covid-19 within one mile of its premises, this extension should cover its
claim. 
Sanitary Arrangements
P said it was required to close due to the sanitary arrangements at the premises i.e. that 
social distancing couldnt be maintained. 
Other factors
P also said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the 
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its
policy would provide cover in these circumstances.
P said that that where the policy is ambiguous it should be read in the favour of the insured.
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Ps claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt think
the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It continued to believe its claim should 
be paid under the cover referred to above and referred to paragraph 71 of the Supreme 
Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test 
case which refers to proximate causes.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ps business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if QEL have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ps claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Ps policy says:
The Company agrees that in the event of the Business carried on by the 
Policyholder at the Premises being interrupted or interfered with as a 
consequence of any of the Contingencies set out below during the Period of 
Insurance then the Company will indemnify the Policyholder in accordance with 
the provisions stated subject to the terms limitations Additional Conditions and 
Exclusions of this Section and the General Policy Conditions limitations and 
Exclusions of the Policy
The Contingencies are:
1. Any Damage as insured by the Property Damage All Risks " Section of this     
Policy.
 2. Explosion of any boiler or economiser on the Premises
 3. Any Damage occasioned in the course of theft but excluding loss due to the 
theft of property.
 4. Additional Coverages as otherwise extended under this Section.The policy defines damage as, Accidental physical loss or destruction or damage including 
any consequential loss arising therefrom.
Its clear that 2 and 3 dont apply so I will consider 1 in this section and 4 in the section 
below.
For cover to apply under 1, Ps business interruption would need to be as a result of 
accidental physical loss or destruction or damage as insured by the Property Damage 
section of the policy. I dont think this would provide cover for Ps claim, because I dont think 
that the interruption to Ps business was as a result of damage as insured by the Property 
Damage section of the policy. 
P has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020).
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. Ive considered this,
but Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Ps claim, including
TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British
Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Ps property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of
potential damage.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the interruption to Ps business was as a result 
of damage as insured by the Property Damage section of the policy, so QEL have acted 
fairly and reasonably in determining that this doesnt provide cover. 
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through additional coverages (4). The extension for 
denial of access covers business interruption or interference in consequence of:
Damage to property within 1,000 metres of the Premises which shall prevent or 
hinder the use of or access to the Premises
Its unclear whether the word damage is intended to relate to the policy definition, but even 
if it doesnt, when using the ordinary meaning of the word, for the reasons set out above I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that the interruption to Ps business was as a result of 
damage to property within 1,000 metres which prevented or hindered the use of or access to 
Ps premises. Therefore, I dont think this extension covers Ps claim.
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference in consequence of:
a) any Specified Disease manifested by any person whilst at the Premises
b) an outbreak of a Specified Disease manifested by any person within 1 mile of 
the Premises
The policy definition of a specified disease sets out a list of covered diseases which doesnt 
include Covid-19. As Covid-19 isnt in that list, its not covered by the policy. When reaching 
this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something QEL might have known about when 
the policy was drafted. However, there were policies that provided cover for all notifiable 
diseases. While I accept that the list in Ps policy reflects some of the Governments list of notifiable diseases, many other notifiable diseases also arent included. Ps policy does not 
say that it covers notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of diseases which 
are covered by the policy.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded,
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not
included, including any new diseases which emerge. Therefore, I dont think this extension
can fairly be read to cover any and all diseases and therefore this doesnt cover Ps claim.
Sanitary arrangements
The same extension also covers business interruption or interference in consequence of:
f) the closing of the whole or part of the Premises by the order or on the advice 
of a competent Public Authority as a result of
i. defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the Premises
P said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained. 
However, I dont think the inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a 
defect in Ps sanitary arrangements
I havent seen anything to persuade me there was any deficiency or fault in Ps sanitary 
arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a 
defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Ps premises which led to its closure.
I also I havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me that it was the
circumstances at Ps premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to
introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Ps
claim.
Other factors
Although P might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ps policy provides cover
for its claim.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and
I dont think it matters that Covid-19 isnt excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that
provides cover.
I have also considered Ps reference to para 71 of the Supreme Court judgment but I dont 
think this is relevant to Ps complaint as Im not persuaded that an insured peril has 
occurred. 
I understand this isnt the outcome P was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require QEL to pay Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman