DRN-3705724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about a mortgage and porting application they made to 
Santander UK Plc being declined, and the resultant early repayment charge (ERC) they had 
to pay. They consider the ERC was massive and punitive, given the circumstances, and 
they dont believe Santander incurred costs of this degree.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took a mortgage with Santander in 2019 for £570,000 on a repayment basis. 
Mrs D was not working at the time and so the application was assessed on just Mr Ds 
income. Santander has confirmed that due to the mortgage not being dependent on any 
employment Mrs D had, her residency status was not relevant to its assessment of the 
application.
In the spring of 2021 Mr and Mrs D attached an interest rate product to the mortgage, which 
was due to end in August 2023, and had an ERC linked to it. If the mortgage was repaid 
before 2 August 2023 an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid would be charged. However, if a 
new mortgage was agreed with Santander, the interest rate product could be ported to the 
that new mortgage.
Later in 2021 Mr and Mrs D decided they wanted to move. They enquired, via an 
independent broker, about taking a new, larger mortgage with Santander and porting their 
existing interest rate product. An agreement in principal was issued, which confirmed that if 
Mr and Mrs D put in an application for the proposed mortgage, it would be subject to credit 
checking, a valuation on the property and an assessment against Santanders lending 
criteria. 
Mr and Mrs D then applied for the new mortgage of around £163,000 more than the existing 
one. Both Mr and Mrs D were employed at this point and the mortgage was to be reliant on 
both of their incomes. The loan-to-value (LTV) on the application was 85%. Santander 
confirmed that as Mrs D didnt have a permanent right to reside, its lending criteria mean 
that it would only lend on a 75% LTV. Santander informed Mr and Mrs Ds broker that with 
the size of the deposit they were planning to put down, it couldnt lend the amount they 
wanted.  As Mr and Mrs D couldnt increase their deposit to the amount needed to buy the 
property on a 75% LTV, they withdrew their application and sourced a mortgage with a 
different lender. 
The mortgage was redeemed toward the end of February 2022 and an ERC was charged. 
Mr and Mrs D complained.
Santander responded to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that it had 
not made a mistake when it assessed their application and decided the maximum it was 
willing to lend them. As they had decided to repay their mortgage with it before the end of 
the fixed rate period, the ERC was payable. 
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with Santanders response and referred their complaint to us. 
Two of our investigators considered the complaint, but they didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. They said that Santander knew their circumstances 
and so would have known at the agreement in principle stage whether they were eligible for 
a new mortgage or not. They also remained of the view that the ERC was excessive, given 
they had wanted to remain with Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to take when it lends, and thats 
not something this service would normally look to interfere with. I would also point out that 
no-one is entitled to borrow funds on a mortgage, even where there is existing borrowing in 
place. 
When Mr and Mrs D asked, Santander agreed in principle to lend them the money. As the 
documentation from that time explained, this was not a full application and any such 
application made would be subject to being assessed against Santanders lending criteria. 
This was also detailed in the product mortgage offer Mr and Mrs D received in 2021; that to 
port they would need to meet the lending criteria and pass an affordability assessment.
Mr and Mrs D have said that Santander knew about Mrs Ds residency status when the 
mortgage was granted in 2019. That may be the case, but unless a fact affects the proposed 
mortgage, it wont cause an application to fail. Santander has said that as the previous 
mortgage was not financially reliant on Mrs D remaining in the country, her residency status 
didnt affect its consideration. However, in 2021 her income was to be taken into account, 
and so her residency status was a factor that could affect the affordability of the mortgage 
and needed to be factored into the lending decision. In addition, as our investigator 
explained, when an agreement in principle is considered, it doesnt involve an in-depth 
review of any previous applications, so Santander wasnt at fault for not having picked up on 
the residency issue before the full application was made. 
Santander was entitled to apply its lending criteria to Mr and Mrs Ds application and, if that 
meant it could only lend on a different basis from what they wanted, to tell them that. 
Santander gave them the opportunity to reassess their application when it established that it 
couldnt lend to them on the basis they wanted.
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage product offer that was sent to 
Mr and Mrs D before the new product was added to the mortgage. They accepted that offer 
and the ERC that was associated with it, even if they thought, at the time, it was unlikely they 
would have to incur it. So when Mr and Mrs D paid off their mortgage, it was not 
unreasonable for Santander to charge the ERC that they had accepted as part of the 
mortgage they had entered into with it.
As for Mr and Mrs Ds concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. In light of this, a lender is allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr and Mrs D consider the ERC is unfair because it was not their choice to take a mortgage 
with another lender. It was their choice to move during the term of the interest rate product 
theyd added to their mortgage. If they hadnt wanted to incur the ERC, they didnt have to 
move home once they knew that the ERC would be payable. 
As I have explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC 
is calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen the 
evidence of the calculations, although it cant be made publicly available as its commercially 
sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was a reasonable 
pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman