DRN-3433042
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc is unfairly charging him excessive interest on his 
overdraft. He says the rate is too high given his credit history and circumstances and that he 
has not been offered a cheaper alternative such as a lower interest loan.
What happened
Mr C complained to Lloyds that it increased the interest rate he was paying for his overdraft. 
He says hes tried to apply for lower interest loans but has not been approved and feels it is 
unfair for Lloyds to charge him so much for his overdraft when he does not think there is any 
reason for him to be charged such a high rate. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns. He didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. So while I appreciate that Mr C is unhappy with the 
high interest rate on his overdraft, it is for Lloyds to set the rates it wishes to charge based 
on its own credit scoring process. It is also for Lloyds to decide what other products or loans 
it is willing to offer to individual customers, so again it is not for me to say that Lloyds has 
done anything wrong in not offering Mr C a lower cost loan to replace the overdraft he 
currently holds. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr C hasnt been given appropriate notice of any 
changes to the interest rate of his overdraft, which would have given him the opportunity to 
investigate what other options he might have for moving that debt.
So with this in mind, I dont think has Lloyds treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably which 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing 
for Mr C  but I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman
