DRN-4107437
The complaint
Miss M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss M was provided with a £1,800 loan by NatWest in February 2022. The loan was 
repayable over 24 months with monthly repayments of around £97 and a total amount 
repayable of around £2,336. Miss M says that she was then provided with a credit card by 
NatWest, and she had other debts. She said NatWest had access to her bank statements 
and so could have seen her other costs. She thought further checks should have taken place 
before the lending was provided.
NatWest issued a final response letter in September 2022. In regard to the loan, it said that it 
assesses affordability based on information provided by the applicant, a review of data with 
credit reference agencies, credit scoring and information from third party statistical sources. 
It also said it looked at how other accounts with it had been managed. It said that it had 
followed its correct procedures in the provision of the loan to Miss M and didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Miss M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our adjudicator thought 
the checks carried out by NatWest before the loan was provided were reasonable and as 
these didnt raise concerns that the loan would be unaffordable, she didnt uphold this 
complaint. 
Miss M didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said she had complained about both the 
loan and credit card provided by NatWest and her complaint about the credit card lending 
had been upheld and she thought her complaint about the loan should also be upheld given 
the short timeframe in which the two products were provided. She said in the months leading 
up to the loan she had been provided with three credit cards from other lenders and received 
two credit limit increases. She says this shows she was struggling financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has referred to a complaint she raised about a credit card provided by NatWest 
which has been dealt with separately and was upheld. This decision is about the loan 
provide by NatWest which happened before the credit card was provided. While I note 
Miss Ms comments, I want to explain that each case is assessed on its merits and my 
decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable based on the unique circumstances 
of the complaint, which in regard to this decision is about the loan provided in February 
2022.
NatWest has said that it carried out a credit check and assessed the affordability of the loan 
based on the information provided by Miss M as part of the application, information from the 
credit checks and from third party data sources. I have looked at the credit check results, 
and I do not find that these raised concerns that meant the lending shouldnt have been 
provided. As NatWest had access to Miss Ms bank statements, I think it would have been 
reasonable to consider the information contained in these as part of the affordability 
assessment.
I have looked through Miss Ms bank statements for the three months leading up to the loan 
being provided. While I note that she was using buy now pay later services and had some 
other outstanding credit commitments I do not find that this is enough to say the lending 
shouldnt have been provided. Having looked at Miss Ms account management I dont think 
this should have raised concerns that she was in financial difficulty at that time. 
Based on Miss Ms bank statements the income Miss M received was around £1,813 a 
month - NatWest recorded an amount of £1,825. Miss Ms expenses included costs for 
housing, council tax, utilities, insurance, as well as amounts noted as bills and an amount to 
reflect her other credit commitments. These amounts totalled around £1,100. Taking these 
costs into account and allowing an amount for other living costs such as food and transport, I 
do not find this suggests that loan repayments of around £97 a month should have appeared 
unaffordable.
Based on the above, I do not find that there is evidence to say that NatWest was wrong to 
provide the loan to Miss M. Therefore I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman