DRN-3384559
The complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank Limited refused to deal with his chargeback claim and
threatened to close his account if he raised further claims in the future.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr C has told us he was in hospital for two weeks during November 2020. Whilst Mr C 
was in hospital a merchant claimed to have delivered a phone hed purchased to his 
property. But when Mr C was discharged from hospital he found the phone hadnt been 
delivered as he was told.
Mr C contacted Starling Bank and asked to raise a chargeback claim. Starling Bank noted 
Mr C had raised several chargeback claims previously and asked for some further 
information, including a crime reference number. Mr C responded and gave the crime 
reference number.
Starling Bank says it referred Mr Cs claim to its chargeback team to look at. The 
chargeback team contacted the Police and were told the crime reference number Mr C 
provided didnt relate to an incident that matched his chargeback claim. Starling Bank didnt 
take Mr Cs chargeback further and notified him that further claims wouldnt be processed. 
Mr C says Starling Bank also threatened to close his account.
Starling Bank sent Mr C a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Starling Bank 
explained why it hadnt taken Mr Cs chargeback claim forward and that it could review 
whether to continue to offer account service, in line with the terms and conditions. An 
investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They thought Starling Bank had dealt 
with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else.
Mr C asked to appeal and said either the Police or Starling Bank had given incorrect 
information about the crime reference number. Mr C also said Starling Bank had never 
contacted the merchant to raise a chargeback claim. As Mr C asked to appeal his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision because Ive reached my view of Mr Cs 
complaint for different reasons to the investigator. I note the investigators view said a 
chargeback claim had been raised and Starling Bank attempted to get a refund from the 
merchant. Mr Cs response to the investigator questioned whether Starling Bank ever 
reached the point of contacting the merchant. Like Mr C, I havent seen anything that 
indicates Starling Bank took that step.
Starling Bank has explained Mr Cs chargeback claim was handled by a specialist team. 
Weve been given the notes from Mr Cs chargeback claim. They show Starling Bank took 
the circumstances of Mr Cs chargeback claim into account and asked for further 
information, including a crime reference number. But the Police subsequently told Starling 
Bank the crime reference number didnt relate to issues connected with Mr Cs chargeback 
claim. At that stage, Starling Bank took the decision not to pursue the chargeback claim 
further. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied that was a choice it was entitled to 
take.
Ive looked at the chargeback rules and they say The issuer (Starling Bank) may initiate a 
chargeback claim when the circumstances of a transaction meet the requirement of a 
chargeback reason code The chargeback rules dont say a business has to initiate every 
claim made by a customer. Im satisfied Starling Bank considered his case but didnt feel it 
met the necessary requirements for a formal chargeback claim. So whilst Mr Cs 
chargeback claim wasnt presented to the merchant to defend, I havent found Starling 
Bank made an error or treated him unfairly.
Mr C has told us he thinks either the Police or Starling Bank have made a mistake about the 
crime reference number. But the claim notes support what Starling Bank has told Mr C. I 
havent seen anything that indicates Starling Bank incorrectly noted the information provided 
by the Police.
Starling Bank has explained it may review its decision to provide account services going 
forward if further disputes are raised. I understand Mr Cs concerns, but Starling Banks 
account terms and conditions allow it to end a banking relationship and withdraw its 
services. Whilst I appreciate thats difficult information to receive, Im satisfied Starling 
Bank was seeking to be open and honest about its relationship with Mr C going forward.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but as Im satisfied Starling Bank has dealt with his complaint
fairly I dont intend to tell it to take any further action.
I Invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr C responded and said he still thinks 
Starling Bank had everything it needed to approve his chargeback claim. Mr C also 
reiterated why his claim shouldve been approved and that he feels Starling Bank simply 
decided not to proceed. Starling Bank responded to confirm it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr C for his response, but the information provided is very much in line with 
the details contained in his complaint submission. I understand Mr C feels Starling Bank 
acted unfairly when it didnt approve his chargeback claim. But for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied Starling Bank dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C but I havent been persuaded to change my view.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman