DRN-2622270
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) held him responsible for a transaction that 
he didnt recognise and had to wait for several months before receiving a response from BoS 
about his complaint.
What happened
Mr H was reviewing his bank statements and noticed a payment for £154.50 that he didnt 
recognise. He notified his bank and told them he didnt make the transaction. Mr H confirmed 
that he hadnt lost his card at any point, let anyone else use it or given his PIN number for 
the card to anyone. He says that all the other transactions on his account were made by him 
and that its only this one payment that he didnt recognise.
Mr H said hes never visited the business where the transaction was made. He says he 
didnt receive a copy of the banks final response until June when he went into his branch to 
enquire about the issue, although the letter was dated in February. Mr H suggested his card 
could have been cloned, which would account for the circumstances of the payment from his 
account.
BoS looked into the transaction and told Mr H that the genuine debit card was used to make 
the payment. They said their records showed the card payment machine at the business 
was able to read the chip on his debit card. The bank said the chip on the card was unable 
to be cloned. Mr H complained to BoS, but they declined to make any refund and held Mr H 
responsible for the transaction.
Unhappy with their response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. It was looked at by one of our investigators who concluded that Mr H had likely 
authorised the transaction himself.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and said that hed never visited that shop before 
and didnt live near it. Mr H suggested that a new fraud typology or incorrect data could be 
responsible for the transaction.
 Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulation
The regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). They explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised if the 
payer (in this case Mr H) has consented to it. The payment service provider (in this case 
BoS) must show the payment was authenticated. But its not enough for BoS to simply rely 
on the fact that Mr Hs card and PIN were used, that doesnt necessarily mean that the 
payment was authorised by the account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because Mr H will be liable for 
payments he has authorised and, generally speaking, BoS will be liable for unauthorised 
payments.
BoS have supplied audit data to show that the genuine chip was read on Mr Hs card and the 
correct PIN number was entered into the card machine at the business. Because of this Im 
satisfied that the transaction was authenticated. 
Mr H speculated the data BoS relied on could be wrong. Of course, it could be an error in the 
data, but the audit information records several different sets of information for each 
transaction. Its unlikely that together they would result in a properly authenticated 
transaction if some of the information was incorrect, for example someone elses card details 
wouldnt match with the correct PIN. Ive not seen any evidence that this has happened and 
all the other transactions on the account have been confirmed by Mr H as genuine. I think its 
unlikely that an error in the data is responsible for the transaction.
Ive gone on to consider whether the evidence suggests it was more likely than not Mr H 
consented to the transaction. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for BoS to 
hold Mr H liable for the transaction and Ill explain why.
Because the genuine card and PIN were used to make the transaction, there are only a 
limited number of ways this could have happened.
An unknown third party made the transaction.
Someone known to Mr H whod obtained the PIN took the card and made the 
transaction without his consent.
Mr H made the transaction himself or allowed someone else to use his card.
Mr H suggested that he could have been shoulder surfed during an earlier transaction that 
day. Ive thought about the plausibility of this - the disputed transaction occurred between 
two legitimate ones that were in different parts of the city. For an unknown third party to have 
made the transaction, the card needed to be removed at one location without Mr H realising, 
the thief then travelling to another part of the city to make the disputed transaction, and then 
to return the card to Mr H without his knowledge that it was missing. Mr H has confirmed he 
kept his card secure in his wallet or at home and no one else had access to it or knew the 
PIN. So, I dont think this is a likely explanation for how the transaction was made.
Also, I dont think an opportunistic thief would have tried to replace the card, they would have 
been more likely to use it until it was blocked rather than return it and there was a high 
balance on the account at the time. So, I dont think that an unknown third party was 
responsible.
The second scenario describes someone known to Mr H who had access to the card and 
was able to acquire the PIN without Mr H knowing. 
Mr H has said he doesnt live near or ever been to the business where the transaction took 
place. Ive thought about this and whilst I appreciate Mr Hs comments, the evidence Ive 
considered shows that his genuine card and PIN were used at the business. At the time of 
the transaction Mr H confirmed he still had possession of the card. I asked Mr H if anyone else could have taken his card without his knowledge and he confirmed that only he uses it 
and hes never told anyone else the PIN. I cant think of a likely explanation other than Mr H 
consented to the transaction.
Mr H has suggested that his card might have been cloned. But although its possible to clone 
the magnetic strip on a card and produce a replica, theres no evidence to suggest thats 
possible with the chip. So, given that BoS has been able to show that the chip was read, and 
the correct PIN number entered, Im persuaded these transactions were carried out with Mr 
Hs genuine card.
Mr H also said that we shouldnt rule out the possibility that hes the first victim of such a
practice. Ive considered this but Im not persuaded that this is what happened here. I say
that because, if a fraudster had managed to obtain access to Mr Hs card in this way, Id
have expected them to try to withdraw as much cash or authorise as many payments as
possible before Mr H noticed them on his account. Whilst there isnt a normal way a 
criminal will use someone elses payment card, Id have expected to see the account 
exploited as soon as possible because the thief wont know when it will be noticed and 
reported to the bank. That didnt happen here.
Mr H made the point that he didnt receive the final response from the business until he went 
into the branch several months after reporting the issue. The final response letter was dated 
in February and I havent seen any evidence that suggests there was a problem with 
sending the letter out. It was available to the branch staff when Mr H visited in June and this 
would indicate it had already been generated prior to this.
I cant say if the letter reached Mr H as there are other businesses involved in the delivery of 
post. Whilst it would have been frustrating to find out several months later about the 
investigation, it didnt cause Mr H to fall outside the referral time to our service. Because Im 
satisfied the letter was generated and more than likely posted  I wont be asking BoS to do 
anything further about this. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision but taking everything into account 
Im satisfied BoS can hold Mr H liable for the transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman