DRN-2747288
The complaint
The executors of Ms Ds estate are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC continued to charge 
interest on the mortgage Ms D had with it after her death. 
What happened
Ms D had a mortgage with Lloyds and a mortgage protection policy to repay it in the event of 
death. The policy wasnt assigned to the mortgage, and so the proceeds werent paid out 
until probate was granted. In the meantime, the contractual payments on the mortgage 
remained due and so arrears accrued on the mortgage.
The executors werent happy that payments remained due and interest continued to be 
charged. 
Lloyds responded to the complaint, but it didnt consider it had done anything wrong. It 
explained the policy Ms D had held to protect her mortgage wasnt assigned and there was 
no beneficiary named on the policy, so the policy proceeds couldnt be paid out until probate 
was granted. It also said that it had explained, when notified of Ms Ds death, that no 
payments needed to be made to the mortgage, but they would remain due and so the 
account would fall into arrears. 
The executors werent happy with Lloyds response and referred the complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld.  
He was satisfied that Lloyds had told the executors what would happen with the mortgage 
going forward when they notified it of Ms Ds death. In addition, he confirmed the way Lloyds 
had managed the account was standard practice in the industry. 
The executors didnt accept the investigators view of the matter, as they didnt think Lloyds 
continuing to charge interest was ethical. They asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am only considering the actions of Lloyds in this decision; the actions of the life assurance 
company were dealt with under a different complaint and I wont comment on that matter.
The executors are unhappy that interest continued to accrue on the mortgage debt and that 
payments were nominally due and the mortgage, therefore, went into arrears. However, that 
is how the mortgage contract works and the death of the borrower doesnt alter that. The 
contract remains in place until the mortgage is paid off and so payments remain due and 
interest is charged.
When it was notified of the death, Lloyds sent the executors information about what would 
happen with the mortgage. This explained that payments would remain due, but as it didnt 
expect the estate to make those payments, the account would go into arrears. As our 
investigator explained, it is normal that a secured mortgage or loan will continue to be 
administered in line with its terms and conditions until repaid or the property is repossessed. 
I cant find Lloyds did anything wrong in following its procedures and the mortgage terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Ms D to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman