DRN-2730694
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader of company U and has complained about Society of Lloyds (SOL) 
decision to decline his claim made under his freight insurance for damaged goods.
What happened
Mr B has stock made and imported from overseas. He arranged with his supplier to provide 
three groups of similar items, which Ill refer to as A, B and C. Mr B says the supplier was 
responsible for getting the items to its port, and he then arranged to ship them to the UK. For 
the purpose of shipping Mr B arranged a Freight cover policy, the schedule for which 
specified that the mode of transport covered was Ocean Freight, recorded the shipping 
date as well as where the items were being shipped from and to, and confirmed that the 
items covered were of the type being supplied to Mr B.
The schedule also explained the basis for cover was for loss of or damage to the items 
specified in the manner and to the extent provided for by this insurance. The policy wording 
then provided various terms of cover, including:
This insurance commences at the attachment of [Mr Bs] interest in the goods but unless 
specifically agreed elsewhere not prior to the time the goods are set in motion for the 
commencement of transit.
And:
Mildew, Infestation and Vermin clause Including the risk of Mildew, Infestation and 
Vermin howsoever arising.
Mr B says that in 2020 he was told by his supplier that items A were ready, but it was still 
preparing items B and C. A few weeks later all items were ready to be sent and the supplier 
loaded all the items into a shipping container which was sealed and taken to the port for 
loading onto the freight carrier. When the items arrived in the UK Mr B inspected the 
container, noting no damage and that the seals were intact. But when he unloaded and 
unpacked the goods, he found that items A were mouldy. He complained to the supplier and 
made a claim to SOL.
SOL appointed a surveyor to assess the goods. The surveyor did so and also talked to Mr B, 
ascertaining that items A had been ready before B and C, it was only items A that were 
damaged and that the container had no signs of damage. The outer boxes for items A were 
also tested for traces of sea water, and none was found. The surveyor determined that items 
A had likely been affected by moisture before being shipped and that the mould had 
developed once all the items had been sealed in the non-ventilated container. Having 
considered the surveyors findings SOL said it was declining the claim as the items had been 
damaged before being shipped, so before its cover began.
Mr B was unhappy. He said this was a massive loss to his small company and that given the 
mildew clause, hed expected the mould damage to be covered. He said that was especially 
the case given SOLs surveyor seemed satisfied the mould had occurred during the 
shipment. But Mr B said he was also concerned that the findings of the surveyor, and the 
subsequent decline by SOL, all seemed based on a series of assumptions about what may 
have happened. When SOL wouldnt change its view Mr B complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted the surveyors findings and felt that it 
was fair and reasonable for SOL to decline the claim for damage as it was most likely this 
had been caused before the policy cover began.
Mr B disagreed with the findings. He said that mould howsoever caused was specifically 
covered so SOL should be liable for his loss. He also argued that really SOL needed to be 
100% sure about what had happened, otherwise its decline couldnt be fair. Our investigator 
responded to Mr Bs concerns and Mr B asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr B, I dont intend 
to uphold his complaint. Ive explained my views below.
I know Mr B feels that the findings of the surveyor arent wholly conclusive. However, as our 
investigator explained, we assess complaints on the basis of whats been shown to most 
likely have happened. Mr Bs testimony was considered by the surveyor and I think its fair to 
say the surveyor had no reason to doubt what was said. The surveyor also tested for 
presence of sea water, to make sure it was unlikely that moisture only present during the 
voyage had affected items A. The surveyor also noted that items B and C werent damaged 
at all. I think the surveyors conclusion that items A were mostly likely affected before Mr B 
took control of them and they were shipped is reasonable. And Im mindful that Mr B hasnt 
presented any alternate opinion from a similarly qualified expert, which might give me cause 
to think otherwise about SOLs surveyors findings.
Insurance policies are often arranged for a set period. The terms that form the policy cover 
can only be read in that context. So the cover within this policy for mildew (mould) 
howsoever caused, doesnt extend the policy beyond the period of cover agreed. And I 
think its also fair to say that howsoever doesnt mean whenever. 
That said I can understand that Mr B might think that mould which occurred during the 
course of shipping, as found by SOLs surveyor, would be covered. But the surveyor also 
found that the mould wasnt caused spontaneously whilst the goods were at sea. Rather the 
mould occurred because, in the surveyors opinion, items A had been affected by moisture 
before the goods came into Mr Bs control and the policy provided by SOL began. The effect 
of the moisture on items A then progressed during the voyage with mould developing. So the 
mould was caused when items A were affected by moisture and not dried out before being 
loaded in to the shipping container. 
In short the damage didnt occur due to anything fortuitously happening whilst the goods 
were being shipped. And that was the purpose of the cover which Mr B had arranged and 
which SOL had agreed to provide. That being the case, I cant reasonably say SOL acted 
unfairly when it declined liability for Mr Bs loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Society of Lloyds.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman