DRN-2939829
The complaint
Miss P complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss P was provided with a loan for £550 by Lending Stream in June 2017. She says that 
the loan was unaffordable, and she was having to borrow money to make it through the 
month. She says she was making constant use of her overdraft at the time and had taken 
out a £5,000 loan in January which she wasnt able to maintain the repayments on. She 
explained she was suffering from mental health conditions at the time which meant she 
wasnt able to budget. Miss P said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided her with the loan 
which put her in financial difficulty and affected her credit score.
Lending Stream issued a final response letter not upholding Miss Ps complaint. It said that 
before the loan was provided it checked if Miss P was working and gathered information 
about her income and expenses. It said Miss Ps living expenses were checked against 
independent data sources and that her expenses for other credit commitments were 
checked with a credit reference agency. It said that based on its checks, the loan 
repayments were affordable for Miss P.
Miss P didnt agree with Lending Streams response and referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that further verification of the 
information gathered by Lending Stream was required.
Miss P didnt accept our adjudicators view. She reiterated that she had taken out a £5,000 
loan in January and was missing or late with each payment and said she was unemployed at 
the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loan - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P was only provided with one loan by Lending Stream and as set out above, it can be 
the case that lesser checks are proportionate in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
The loan was for £550 repayable over six months with the highest monthly repayment being 
around £255. Before the loan was provided Miss P was asked about her employment and 
income and her expenses.
I have looked at Miss Ps application and she said that she was in full time employment with 
a monthly income of just over £4,000. She also provided information about her expenses. 
Based on this information the loan repayments appeared affordable. 
As part of this complaint Miss P has provided copies of her bank statements from the time 
and these do not show the income Miss P included in her application. Therefore, I have 
considered whether it was reasonable that Lending Stream relied on the information Miss P 
provided in her loan application.
As this was only the first loan in the lending relationship and having considered the 
information in the application, I think it was reasonable that Lending Stream relied on the 
information it was provided with at this stage. I note Miss Ps comments about having taken 
out a large loan in January 2017, but I can also see a credit check took place and as the 
results of this didnt contain anything that I would have expected further verification to take 
place for, I do not find I can say Lending Stream was wrong not to carry out further checks.Had Miss P continued to borrow from Lending Stream then I would expect further verification 
to have taken place, however as this was only the first loan and noting the amount and 
repayment schedule compared to the information Miss P provided, I find the checks carried 
out were reasonable at this stage. As these suggested the loan was affordable I do not find I 
can say Lending Stream did anything wrong in this case. Because of this I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman