DRN-2390713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that a survey carried out as part of an application they made to port 
their mortgage with Santander UK Plc contained errors. Because they paid for the report, 
they would like the cost of it refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had an existing mortgage with Santander. They applied to port their mortgage 
to a new property in May 2020. As part of the application Santander required a survey of the 
new property, so it could decide if it was willing to provide lending secured against it. It was a 
condition of the application that Mr and Mrs R would pay for this.
Santander assessed Mr and Mrs Rs ability to afford the mortgage and decided this was 
satisfactory. As a result, a survey of the new property was instructed by Santander, for which 
Mr and Mrs R paid £550.
This was carried out by a third-party firm. The report indicated that the property was suitable 
for Santanders lending purposes. As a result, Santander issued a mortgage offer to Mr and 
Mrs R.
Separately Mr and Mrs R instructed their own survey and valuation, which found issues with 
the property, not picked up by the report Santander instructed. Ultimately as agreement 
could not be reached between Mr and Mrs R and the sellers on who would be responsible 
for these issues the purchase did not go ahead.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Santander about the survey and report which had been carried 
out as part of the mortgage application. They said some information in it was incorrect or 
incomplete. As a result, they asked for the cost of it to be refunded.
Santander said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong and noted that the report was 
completed by an independent surveyor. It also said that the report was only for Santanders 
purposes and was not intended to provide any comment on the suitability of the property for 
purchase. 
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs R asked our service to look into the complaint. They 
said that the surveyor had completed the report incorrectly. So, what they had paid for, the 
report, was not fit for purpose. They were also unhappy that Santander had failed to 
challenge these errors in the report and said they felt that the surveyors firm and Santander 
were in fact linked, so Santander was responsible for the errors that had occurred.
One of our investigators considered matters but didnt think Santander needed to refund the 
cost of the survey. She said the cost had been made clear as part of the application and Mr 
and Mrs R had agreed to pay this. She agreed that it had come to light that information in the 
survey had been recorded incorrectly. But she said the scope of the report was limited so a 
lot of the information now disputed would not usually have been picked up anyway. And she 
felt Santander had not done anything wrong by relying on the report when it was provided. 
Mr and Mrs R did not agree with the investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R were applying to move their existing mortgage to a new property. As part of 
considering that application, Santander needed to be satisfied that the new property 
represented a suitable security. So as a condition of the mortgage application, a survey of 
the new property for mortgage purposes was required. And it was a further condition that Mr 
and Mrs R would pay for this  the cost being £550  and that this amount was non-
refundable if the mortgage application did not subsequently go ahead.
Mr and Mrs R proceeded with the application. And based on what Ive seen I think they did 
so with full knowledge of these conditions. So, I dont think Santander has made an error by 
charging the £550 fee to instruct the report.
Mr and Mrs R have said they are unhappy with the contents of the survey itself  as they say 
the surveyor has recorded information incorrectly and missed certain defects with the 
property. So, they believe the survey is not fit for purpose and they therefore think the cost 
should be refunded. But Santander was not responsible for the contents of the report. This 
was completed by an independent surveyor. So, I cant say that Santander recorded this 
information incorrectly or hold it responsible for this. Mr and Mrs R have said that they think 
Santander is responsible because it has referred to the business that carried out the report 
as its partner. But Im satisfied, while this choice of words is unfortunate and mayve been 
misleading, the business that carried out the survey was separate and independent.
In addition, the purpose of the survey was solely to allow Santander to decide if the property 
was a suitable security for lending purposes. It wasnt to highlight any or all issues with the 
property that mayve affected Mr and Mrs Rs decision to purchase it. That is what the report 
that they commissioned independently was for. The information in the survey provided to 
Santander was sufficient to allow it to decide if it was willing to lend  as evidenced by it 
providing a mortgage offer. So, I think it did meet its purpose.
There is no dispute that some of the information recorded in the report was incorrect. But I 
dont think Santander couldve reasonably been aware of that when the report was received. 
Santander appointed an independent expert to carry out the valuation and was entitled in my 
view to rely on their opinion. And based on what Ive seen, this incorrect information didnt 
impact Santanders lending decision. 
Mr and Mrs R have also highlighted that the report failed to comment on certain other issues 
that came to light as part of their own survey. Again, Santander isnt responsible for the 
content of the report. So, I dont think this information being omitted means Santander made 
an error. I would note again though that the report was a basic review of the property, for 
Santanders lending purposes only. So, it wouldnt be expected necessarily to pick up issues 
that a more in-depth survey would. And so, I dont think this information not being included 
means Santander did anything wrong by relying on the report or failing to challenge it.
When the issues with the property were drawn to Santanders attention it reviewed the 
position. I dont think it acted unreasonably in doing so. I can see that the purchase 
ultimately didnt go ahead. But this appears to be down to these issues, not anything 
Santander did.With that in mind, and as the mortgage application makes it clear that the fee for this survey 
was non-refundable, as the report was carried out as instructed by an independent expert, 
and this allowed Santander to make a lending decision, I dont think I can reasonably 
recommend that the cost be refunded. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman