DRN-3274719
The complaint
Mrs C complains that when her oven developed a fault and couldnt be repaired, Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc replaced it with an oven that wasnt of the same quality and was 
defective. 
What happened
Mrs C had a policy with D&G which provided cover for repair or replacement of her oven. 
Her oven developed a fault and was replaced by D&G in August 2021. Mrs C wasnt happy 
with the replacement oven from the outset. Shed been provided with details of the 
replacement ovens she could choose from, but once the oven was fitted, she didnt feel it 
performed as well as her old one. There were problems with the grill, food cooked unevenly, 
and excessive condensation developed when the oven was in use. This had caused some of 
the screws inside the oven to rust in a very short time after it was installed. 
Mrs C checked the cost and specifications of the oven and felt it wasnt a suitable 
replacement for her old oven which had cost about £100 more, around 10 years ago. She 
felt this wasnt acceptable as she thought she had new for old cover under her policy.
Mrs C contacted D&G on 24 August 2021 about the oven. A complaint was raised, and she 
was told to contact the manufacturer, to arrange an engineers visit as the oven was under 
warranty.  
Mrs C contacted the manufacturer and an engineer attended on 31 August 2021. D&Gs 
records show that he confirmed there was a fault with the oven, but Mrs C didnt want a 
repair or replacement. She told him that the oven D&G had provided wasnt of the same 
quality as her old one, so she wanted them to replace it with a different make of oven.
As Mrs C had refused a repair by the manufacturer D&G werent prepared to take any 
further action. Mrs C then complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case and didnt think D&G needed to take any action. She 
said that when Mrs Cs oven needed replacing, she was sent offers based on the 
specifications of the original appliance, rather than its cost. She chose the oven that was 
installed, which matched the specifications of her old oven, so our investigator thought shed 
been offered a suitable replacement. 
When Mrs C complained about the replacement, she was told to contact the manufacturers 
as the oven was under guarantee. An engineer attended and a fault was identified. Our 
investigator felt it was reasonable for the manufacturers to be given the opportunity to repair 
or replace the oven. And she didnt think D&G needed to replace it.
Since our investigator issued their opinion Mrs C has told us that when the engineer 
attended, he told her that her oven should have been replaced with a different high end 
oven.
Shes also told us she contacted the manufacturers and an engineer attended on 27 January 
2022. He replaced the grill element in the oven and gave her tips on using the oven and how 
to reduce condensation, which he said was caused by the specifications of the oven. 
And we asked Mrs C for some photographs of the oven, which shes provided.
Mrs C remains unhappy with our investigators opinion. So the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy with D&G state that if they cannot repair a 
product, or can replace it for less than the cost of repair, they will arrange to replace it with a 
product of same or similar make and technical specification. 
When D&G couldnt obtain the parts to repair her old oven, they provided Mrs C with details 
of a number of ovens with similar technical specifications. She chose her replacement oven 
from the options she was given. 
Mrs C is unhappy as shes found that the replacement oven cost around £100 less than her 
old oven, which shed had for over 10 years. Prices of domestic appliances do vary over time 
and in offering replacements based on technical specifications D&G complied with the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Cs policy. Ive noted the comment she says the engineer made about 
the replacement she should have received. But I think the oven provided met the terms and 
conditions of her policy.
Unfortunately, once Mrs C started using the oven it proved to be faulty. She contacted D&G 
who advised her to contact the manufacturer to arrange an engineers visit. Mrs C has told 
us that the engineer didnt find any faults with the oven. But D&G have provided records 
which confirm a fault was found. The engineer recorded that Mrs C wouldnt agree to a 
repair, or replacement, as she wanted D&G to replace the oven with a model she considered 
equivalent to her old one.
While I understand that it was frustrating and upsetting that Mrs Cs new oven was faulty. I 
think it was reasonable for the manufacturer to be given the opportunity to repair, or replace 
it once a fault had been identified. Im pleased to note that she did contact them in January 
2022, and repairs were carried out.
I think D&G gave Mrs C the correct advice, under the terms of her policy, about contacting 
the manufacturers when she experienced problems with her new oven. Had she agreed to 
repairs being carried out in August 2021 this matter would have been resolved sooner. And 
as Im persuaded that D&G offered her a reasonable replacement for her old oven, in line 
with the terms and conditions of her policy, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint 
about Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman