DRN-4428555
The complaint
Mr N complains about UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance (Privilege), 
regarding a claim under his home insurance policy for the theft of a mobile phone. 
Privilege uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Reference to Privilege in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
In July 2023 Mr Ns sons mobile phone was stolen. Mr N contacted Privilege to tell them 
about the theft and make a claim. Privilege appointed a supplier (D) to handle the claim. Mr 
N was initially offered vouchers for a replacement, which was then changed to a cash 
settlement (£469.44) at his request. 
Some three weeks later Mr N was contacted by Privilege, asking him to pay a £200 excess 
under the policy. Mr N rejected the request, saying Privilege had told him in an email the 
excess had been deducted from the cash settlement. Mr N provided Privilege with the email 
and a bank statement for his account, supporting his view.
Unhappy at being asked for the excess when hed been told it had already been deducted, 
Mr N complained to Privilege. In their final response they acknowledged his complaint, 
offering £75 as a goodwill payment for misunderstanding. But they maintained the £200 
excess was still outstanding, referring to the policy terms and conditions.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr N complained to this Service. Hed spent a lot of time 
dealing with the issue, causing him distress and worry from Privileges demands for the 
excess and that he might be subject to debt enforcement action. He understood an excess 
was due under the policy, but hed been told it had been deducted from the cash settlement. 
He wanted Privilege to apologise and stop chasing him for the £200 excess. He also wanted 
compensation for the distress hed suffered.
Our investigator concluded Privilege acknowledged they got things wrong and should have 
deducted the excess prior to settling the claim. He understood why Mr N thought - given the 
correspondence - the excess had already been deducted. However, this wasnt deducted 
because of an error by Privilege. But the excess was due whenever a claim was made, 
which Mr N accepted, and was still due despite the error. Privilege had offered a further £50 
in addition to the £75 previously offered, as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
of the excess being payable after the cash settlement was made. The investigator thought 
this fair. The investigator also thought Privilege should take account of Mr N not expecting to 
have to pay the excess, including discussion of a repayment plan if necessary.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He rejected Privileges revised offer of £125 compensation as it would still leave 
him out of pocket if he had to pay the £200 excess. The correspondence hed received from 
Privilege indicated the £200 excess was deducted from the cash settlement, so hed already 
paid it. And hed accepted the cash settlement of £469.44 as a reasonable offer based on 
his understanding the excess of £200 had already been deducted  which indicated to him 
the gross settlement was £669.44. Had he been told the cash settlement should have been 
£269.44, he wouldnt have accepted the offer. He didnt think the decision could be revisited. 
And it was Privileges mistake (D as their supplier) in not deducting the excess from the cash 
settlement  not his. So, Privilege should seek to recover the £200 excess from D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Privilege have acted fairly towards Mr N.
The key issue in Mr Ns complaint is whether Privilege have acted fairly in seeking to recover 
the policy excess of £200 from Mr Ns claim. Privilege say their agent made a mistake in not 
deducting the excess from the cash settlement paid to Mr N (as would normally have been 
the case). However, the excess id still due under the terms of the policy. Privilege 
acknowledge the mistake and have offered a total of £125 in compensation to Mr N. 
Mr N says he was clearly told the excess would be deducted from the cash settlement, 
which he accepted on that basis. Any mistake wasnt his responsibility, so he shouldnt have 
to pay the £200 excess.
Ive considered all the information and evidence in this case. Having done so, Ive concluded 
that while Privilege (D) made a mistake in the excess not being deducted before the cash 
settlement was issued, it is still due under the terms and conditions of the policy. Ive also 
concluded Privilege have acted fairly in offering Mr N a total of £125 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the episode has caused him. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr N, so Ill set out why Ive come to these conclusions.
Mr N says he was told clearly in an email that the policy excess  which he accepts would be 
due under the policy terms and conditions  would be deducted from the cash settlement. In 
saying this, Mr N refers to the following extract of the email sent by Privilege to him following 
his lodging his claim:
Weve logged your claim. What happens next?...
Weve appointed our approved supplier [D] to handle this particular incident
What else do you need to know?
Your excess is £200.00
Well deduct this amount from any cash settlement we offer. If settlement isnt 
suitable, your excess will be collected before any work is carried out.
Theres also an email from D a few days later confirming the cash settlement had been 
processed by his bank, which doesnt make any reference to the excess. And a screenshot 
showing the credit of £469.44 to Mr Ns bank account.
Looking at these extracts, I can understand why Mr N thought the excess of £200 would 
have been deducted from the cash settlement made to his bank account. 
Ive then noted the policy wording relating to the excess, referred to in Privileges final 
response:Your excess
You will have to pay any excesses shown in your schedule. This includes the specific 
excesses for:
We will only take off one excess for each claim, unless there is an endorsement 
shown in your policy schedule to say otherwise.
If we have asked a supplier to deal with all or part of your claim, we may ask them to 
collect the excess from you.
The Policy Schedule confirms the relevant excess is £200. Taken with the policy terms 
above, I think its clear the £200 excess should be deducted from the claim (and any cash 
settlement made to settle the claim).
From the evidence available, its clear that despite the email sent to Mr N, the excess wasnt 
deducted from the cash settlement issued. Both Mr N and Privilege accept this was a 
mistake on the part of Privilege  from Privileges case notes it appears they mistakenly 
didnt ask D to collect the excess. So, the issue is whether Privilege can fairly apply the 
excess after the cash settlement was paid. In considering this point, Ive taken account of the 
approach of this Service when considering complaints, which is not to punish businesses 
where they make a mistake  as is the case here. Its to decide whether a business has 
acted fairly and reasonably towards a consumer (Mr N).
Its also not disputed the excess should apply. So, while it should have been applied to the 
cash settlement (or taken directly through a payment from Mr D) the fact it wasnt doesnt 
change the fact it is properly due under the terms of the policy. So, I think its reasonable for 
Privilege to seek to recover the excess.
But theyve acknowledged their mistake and offered to pay £125 compensation to Mr D for 
the distress and inconvenience the episode has caused and to settle the complaint. I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances of the case.
Ive also considered the other points made by Mr N when disagreeing with the investigators 
view. He says he accepted the cash settlement of £469.44 as a reasonable offer based on 
his understanding the excess of £200 had already been deducted  which indicated to him 
the gross settlement was £669.44. Had he been told the cash settlement should have been 
£269.44, he wouldnt have accepted the offer. 
Ive considered this point, but if Mr D feels the cash settlement made (taking account of the 
excess Ive concluded would apply) is unfair, it would be for him to raise a separate 
complaint to Privilege about the value of the settlement. And in the first instance for Privilege 
to respond to any such complaint. It isnt something within the scope of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ns complaint. UK 
Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance has already made an offer to pay £125 for 
distress and inconvenience to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance should pay £125.
UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell them Mr N accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman