DRN-4314771
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) caused the ISA transfer he 
instructed to be rejected.
What happened
Mr M submitted a form to YBS to instruct a full transfer of his ISA from the third-party bank 
with who his ISA was then held (the originating bank) to YBS. But a few weeks later, Mr M 
received a letter from YBS which explained that the originating bank had rejected the 
transfer and referring him to the originating bank for more information. 
Mr M later discovered that the reason the originating bank had rejected the transfer was 
because YBS hadnt asked them to transfer the current years ISA subscriptions, which 
meant that the originating banks systems didnt recognise the request as being a full ISA 
transfer request. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
YBS responded to Mr M and confirmed that theyd submitted the ISA transfer request to the 
originating bank as per the instructions given to them by Mr M. Because of this, YBS didnt 
feel theyd done anything wrong. Mr M wasnt satisfied with YBSs response, so he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel YBS had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M submitted his ISA transfer form to YBS, he instructed a full ISA transfer and 
stated that he hadnt made any subscriptions to his existing ISA, held with the originating 
bank, in that tax year. And YBS have demonstrated to my satisfaction that they sent an ISA 
transfer request to the originating bank as per those instructions.
The originating bank rejected the ISA transfer request and explained that it was because the 
request hadnt included any instruction to transfer Mr Ms current years ISA subscription.
Upon consideration, it seems to me that one of two things is likely to have happened here, 
neither of which I would consider YBS at fault for. The first possibility is that the originating 
bank made some form of error and for some reason didnt accept the clear instruction given 
by YBS to transfer all of Mr Ms ISA. 
Alternatively, it may have been the case that Mr M had contributed to his ISA with the 
originating bank in that tax year. This would have meant that the statement Mr M gave to 
YBS on the ISA transfer form, that he hadnt made any such current-year contributons, was 
incorrect. And if this was the case, then YBSs request to transfer the full ISA not including 
any current-year subscriptions (because Mr M hadnt made any) would have been rejected 
by the originating bank. 
However, it isnt within my remit here to determine exactly why Mr Ms ISA transfer request 
failed. Rather, my remit is focussed on whether I feel that YBS acted unfairly or did anything 
wrong. And, given that Im satisfied that YBS submitted the ISA transfer request to the 
originating bank as per the instructions provided to them by Mr M on the ISA transfer form, 
Im satisfied that they havent done anything wrong or acted unfairly here.
Mr M has explained that he feels that the systems of YBS and the originating bank are 
incompatible with each other and feels that YBSs ISA transfer form might not be fit for 
purpose because it doesnt include the option to request the current years subscriptions as 
part of a full transfer. But Im not convinced by Mr Ms position here. And I can only reiterate 
that if it were the case that Mr M had made current-year subscriptions which he wanted to be 
included in the transfer, then he should have answered the question on YBSs form about 
whether hed made current-year subscriptions in the affirmative, rather than in the negative, 
as he did.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing YBS to take any further or alternative action. I hope Mr M will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman