DRN-3330264
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc incorrectly provided him with a loan on terms usually 
offered to its staff. Mr S also complains that Lloyds refuse to write off the debt. 
What happened
Mr S complained to Lloyds on 13 July 2020 regarding the loan he had taken out in June 
2016 for £25,000. 
Mr S said his account was incorrectly marked as a staff account. And as a result he saw 
marketing material which was not relevant to him. Within the material he says he saw a 
generous low interest loan which he applied for.
Mr S says the marketing material didnt mention the loan was only for staff. He says he didnt 
enter into the loan agreement under the pretence of being a member of staff. 
Mr S says since taking out the loan he lost his job which was his only source of income. And 
he says trying to make the loan repayments has been financially devastating to him. 
Mr S says someone at Lloyds told him that since the loan shouldnt have been provided to 
him he would be able to ask to have the debt written off. Mr S says Lloyds have not acted in 
good faith and he wants it to write off the debt or significantly reduce it. He says he wasnt 
eligible for the loan in the first place. And so Mr S complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds said it appeared a staff indicator was likely applied to Mr Ss account by a colleague 
in error. And so when Mr S applied for the loan the staff rates were made available to him. 
Lloyds said although the loan shouldnt have been made available to him it would still have 
provided Mr S with a loan at the time and it would not have been as beneficial as the one he 
did take out. Lloyds also said the loan was affordable to Mr S at the time of the application. 
Lloyds were unable to find details of Mr Ss discussions with the advisor about writing off the 
loan so upheld that he was misadvised, and paid Mr S £50 to reflect this. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any 
further action. Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time.  
The bank carried out an affordability assessment when Mr S applied for the loan. Although 
Lloyds dont have the application itself it does have the information it was provided by Mr S 
at the time. It shows Mr S could afford the loan repayments and that he didnt have any 
adverse credit showing on his credit report. So I dont consider the loan was unaffordable. I 
also find the bank did offer to help Mr S when he was having difficulties. 
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement. This clearly states the loan amount (£25,000) the 
APR (7.2%) the number and amount of repayments (60 payments of £494.70), and the total 
amount repayable (£29,682.00). This also gave Mr S the right to withdraw from the 
agreement within the first 14 days, for any reason. The agreement was signed by Mr S on 20 
June 2016. 
Mr S doesnt dispute applying for, or signing the paperwork for, the loan. But he says he 
wouldnt have applied for it had it not been for the marketing material which he believes was 
only sent to him as a result of the staff marker on his account. He has admitted the material 
didnt reference the loan as being only for staff. From what Ive seen there is no special 
marketing for bank staff only. If anything staff see the same material as customers. And so I 
think its likely when Mr S saw the marketing material it would have given a general APR on 
offer to both staff and customers. At the point he applied for the loan Lloyds system identified 
an incorrectly applied staff marker, and so he was offered a low interest rate. Had the marker 
not been on his account its likely the APR would have been higher, as much as 29.9%. 
Given the above Im satisfied Mr S applied for and received the benefit of the loan. Im also 
satisfied the terms of the loan were clear in the agreement. And if Mr S wasnt happy with 
the terms then he had the choice to either not go through with the application, or to cancel 
the loan and return the money he borrowed within the first 14 days. And by not doing so, its 
reasonable to assume that Mr S accepted all the terms of the loan at the time. 
It is not disputed that Mr S had financial difficulties and struggled to repay the loan. Under 
the rules set down by the FCA a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration.
Ive seen that when Mr S contacted Lloyds in February 2019 to tell them of his change in 
circumstances the advisor gave him details for a payment plan and applied a hold on Mr Ss 
loan and bank account. I have seen that Lloyds applied an interest freeze from March 2019 
to September 2019. Mr S was told that he would need to contact Lloyds to update it about 
his situation or they would have to follow its collection procedure. Each time Mr S contacted 
Lloyds it attempted to assist him by providing him with his options and freezing the interest 
on the account. 
I find that Lloyds has treated Mr S fairly and sympathetically. In the circumstances I cannot 
fairly require the bank to write off any of the loan. 
Mr S says he was told Lloyds would write off his debt since it shouldnt have provided it to 
him in the first place. I havent seen any evidence to corroborate this. Lloyds apologised and 
paid Mr S £50 to reflect this. I think £50 is reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman