DRN-4196566
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint is about a second charge mortgage (secured loan) they have with 
Tandem Home Loans Ltd. They believe the loan was sold irresponsibly in 2014 and so they 
are struggling to afford it. In addition, they are unhappy that Tandem didnt help them when 
they tried to talk to it about their financial difficulties and it was unsympathetic, threatening 
them with repossession if they didnt make their payments. 
What happened
One of my Ombudsman colleagues considered our jurisdiction as it related to this complaint. 
He concluded we couldnt consider the lending decision as the complaint about that issue 
had been made too late. However, the complaint about how Mr and Mrs O were treated 
when they were in financial difficulties, from 10 February 2016, does fall within our 
jurisdiction. As such, I have only detailed information below that relates to that matter or 
gives context to the complaint.
Mr and Mrs O took out their secured loan with another lender in December 2014. The loan 
was for approximately £8,600 over a six-year term. The loan was transferred to Tandem 
(Oplo at the time) in July 2017. 
Mr and Mrs O started having difficulty making payments in the middle of 2015 and arrears 
built on the account for a few months. As at February 2016 Mr and Mrs O were paying the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) and from August 2016 they agreed a payment 
arrangement with Tandem of slightly more to start repaying the arrears. However, those 
payments were only maintained until March 2017. Thereafter, further payment arrangements 
for less than the CMP were agreed, but were not maintained by Mr and Mrs O, although they 
continued to make payments whenever they were able to. 
Tandem has confirmed that the interest payable over the entire term was calculated when 
the loan was granted and added to the balance of the loan. No further interest has been 
added due to late or missed payments, and no charges have been added because of these 
occurrences. Each payment made is used in full to reduce the outstanding balance.
Mr and Mrs O have said that since they started having difficulties paying the loan, during 
phone calls and on a visit from a field agent, they were threatened with their home being 
taken away from them. This frightened them and they complained to Tandem in 2021, 
shortly after the term of the loan expired.
Tandem responded to the complaint about its decision to lend to Mr and Mrs O. It didnt 
uphold the complaint and commented that the difficulties they were having were as the result 
of a change in circumstances. In addition, Tandem was also of the opinion that the complaint 
had been raised too late under our rules and so we might not be able to consider it. 
Following my colleague determining our jurisdiction, the merits of the part of the complaint 
that fell within our jurisdiction was considered by one of our Investigators. Having listened to 
multiple telephone calls between Tandem and Mr and Mrs O since June 2019, he 
considered the calls were good-natured in tone and Tandem expressed sympathy with their 
circumstances. The Investigator was also of the view the contact notes covering the relevant 
period also didnt indicate threatening or aggressive behaviour. He didnt recommend the 
complaint was upheld.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They alleged Tandem would have 
been selective with the information it provided to us in relation to how they had been treated 
and reiterated that the treatment had been terrible. They asked that their complaint be 
moved on to the next stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
We review our jurisdiction at every stage of a complaint. Having done so, I am in agreement 
with my Ombudsman colleague that we can only consider the complaint about how 
Mr and Mrs O were treated from February 2016.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I will comment on Mr and Mrs Os allegation that Tandem will have been selective in 
the information it had provided this service. I cant say for certain that Tandem has provided 
every piece of information it could have, but I have seen nothing that indicates it has omitted 
evidence in order to mislead this service. I will review the complaint on this basis. 
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation. For long-term difficulties, 
a lender must look at ways to help, such as transferring a mortgage from capital and interest 
repayment to interest-only, altering the interest rate or deferring interest for a period of time. 
Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable 
and sustainable. 
Mr and Mrs Os financial difficulties have predominantly been since the spring of 2017, and 
those problems have not stabilised, meaning they have been unable to make the contractual 
payment to the account since. The fact that Mr and Mrs Os difficulties have not been 
resolved means that Tandem had limited options available to it to help them. However, 
Tandem has been in communication with them throughout as would be expected and 
effectively allowed them to pay what they believed they could afford.  I can only conclude it 
has been sympathetic toward Mr and Mrs O and provided what forbearance measures it 
could in the circumstances. 
I have listened to calls from the last four years and, as our Investigator has said, the tone of 
the conversations was perfectly amicable, and the evidence doesnt indicate Tandem was 
aggressive or threatening toward Mr and Mrs O when they spoke to it. Indeed, it confirmed 
at times that it had no intention of taking action to repossess their property. The notes of the 
conversations that took place before that period again dont indicate any different an 
approach from Tandem toward Mr and Mrs O. That said, with a mortgage or secured loan it 
would be expected for a borrower to be reminded of the potential for repossession in the 
event of arrears and no agreement being reached with the lender. It is unfortunate if 
Mr and Mrs O took any such reminders as threats, but I am satisfied from the 
communications I have seen evidence of, that would not have been Tandems intention. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Tandem treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly or was 
unsympathetic in its dealings with them during their financial difficulties.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 August 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman