DRN-3735520
Complaint
Miss D has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
George Banco.com) provided to her. 
She says the proper affordability checks werent undertaken and that if they had been these 
would have shown that this loan was unaffordable for her.
Background
George Banco provided Miss D with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in June 2019. 
This loan had an APR of 61.8% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £4,767.60, including interest, fees and charges of £1,767.60, was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £200. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ds complaint and she thought George Banco 
shouldnt have provided Miss D with her loan. So she thought that Miss Ds complaint should 
be upheld. 
George Banco disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ds complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Miss D could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also 
have been able to seek payments from a guarantor, in the event that Miss D didnt make 
them, did not alter or dilute this obligation in any way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Miss D was already 
significantly indebted. Indeed George Bancos own checks showed that, at best, the 
payments to this loan were taking Miss D right towards the margin of her income. And this 
was with the use of estimated expenditure too. 
Furthermore, the information George Banco has provided also suggests that Miss D was 
already using most of the credit available to her, had already exceeded the limits on some 
accounts and was also in an arrangement to pay on at least one other.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Miss D has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Miss Ds difficulties reflected her choices 
rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from George 
Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Miss Ds version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ds existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss D.
As George Banco provided Miss D with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss D ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan she shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss D lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Miss D
Having thought about everything, George Banco should put things right for Miss D by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss D actually paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Miss D to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Ds credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman