DRN-4025548
The complaint
Miss S complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money closed her 
account without explanation.  Miss S also received a refund which hasnt been released to 
her.
What happened
Miss S had a credit card account with 118 Money.
On 3 February 2022 118 Money blocked her account and carried out a review. Following the 
review 118 Money wrote to Miss S on 4 February 2022 and gave Miss S two months notice 
that it intended to close her account. They suspended the use of her card during this period.
Miss S said she had made a claim against a merchant who had refunded her and sent her 
an email to confirm this. But 118 Money hadnt released the refund to Miss S. When her 
account closed Ms S expected to receive the funds back. 
Miss S complained to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She 
thought 118 Money had done nothing wrong when they reviewed and closed the account.
She thought the refund from the merchant had been credited to Miss Ss account, so she 
didnt think 118 Money had done anything wrong.
Miss S disagreed. She thought the money had been re debited again and therefore hadnt 
been refunded to her account. The investigator contacted 118 Money and they provided 
evidence of a reversal from a different merchant I will refer to as A for a very similar amount 
(£109.30). They also provided all the statements for Miss Ss account. The investigator 
thought the amount Miss S expected from the first merchant had not been reversed and 
Miss S had received that credit in the January 2022 statement. There was therefore no 
money due to Miss S on the closure of the account.  
Miss S also wanted to know why she could still access her account since it had been closed 
for a year. 118 Money told the adjudicator Miss s was able to access her account in order to 
view her statements.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Ss account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. These mean they have to monitor their customers 
accounts and may need to review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may 
need to block or restrict any payments.
This is reflected in 118 Moneys terms and conditions which allow 118 Money to restrict and 
close the account under certain circumstances.
I am satisfied 118 Money were complying with these obligations when they reviewed 
Miss Ss account. 
118 Money gave Miss S 60 days notice to close her account.  As the investigator explained 
its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether 118 Money acted fairly in closing Miss Ss account. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that 118 Money can close a customers account with two months notice, and in 
certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case although 118 
Money gave Miss S two months notice they restricted the use on her account, so I have 
treated this as an immediate closure. In effect 118 Money closed Miss Ss account without 
notice. For 118 Money to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms 
for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied 
that they have applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the account as its already 
done. 
Closing balance and refund
Miss S has told us that she is owed money (£109.96) for a refund she received from a 
dispute she raised with a merchant I will refer to as F.  Miss S said she never received that 
amount because the refund was reversed, and the amount is still owing to her.
I appreciate that Miss S thinks she is owed this money, but I have looked at her statements 
and I can see that she made five payments to F between 20 and 24 November 2021 and the 
total amount spent was £109.96. She then raised a dispute with F. In the January 2022 
statement of her account, I can see that she was refunded this amount, so she has had the 
benefit of these funds.
Miss S has said that the amount was reversed so she was still owed the funds by 118 
Money. Having looked at the statements I cant see that this is the case. So I dont think 118 
Money have done anything wrong here and I dont think Miss S is entitled to £109.96 as she 
thinks.
Miss S has said that there was a refund reversal for £109.30 in her March 2022 statement. 
The merchant referred to in the statement is A not F. The amount relates to purchases made 
in October 2021.  I am satisfied the amount Miss S is referring to isnt the amount relating to 
the merchant F as that amount was refunded to her in January 2022 and was never 
reversed. 
In summary, I know Miss S will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the 
evidence Im satisfied Miss S isnt owed anything and the account was closed fairly so I 
wont be asking 118 Money to do anything else here.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman