DRN-2844544
The complaint
Ms B complains about the joint mortgage and mortgage current account with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC she formerly held with her ex-husband. She said Barclays had failed to tell her 
about the mortgage current account balance her ex-husband had run up. And it wouldnt let 
her reduce the interest rate on the mortgage.
 
What happened
Ms B and her ex-husband had a mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage came with a linked 
mortgage current account (MCA), which had a reserve facility which operated like a secured 
overdraft.
Ms B says that she was unaware of the existence of the MCA and reserve. She says that 
Barclays had set it up in her former husbands name only, and had only written to him about 
it. He was given a debit card linked to the account, and the balance had increased to just 
under £20,000 before she became aware of it.
Barclays said that the MCA was set up in joint names, and always operated that way. It 
accepted that due to a system error the monthly statements had only been addressed to 
Ms Bs former husband and not to her. It offered her £150 compensation for that. But the 
MCA was included on the annual mortgage statements  in both names  and the balance 
was included in each of the interest rate product renewals they had taken, every two years 
or so for the life of the mortgage. So it didnt think Ms B was unaware of the account.
Ms B maintained she wasnt aware of the account. She said that her ex-husband had 
concealed the annual statements from her and had dealt with everything to do with the 
mortgage. She said it would have been much harder for him to do that if Barclays had written 
to her with monthly statements  as it was supposed to have done.
Ms B also said that she had been told that she wouldnt be able to have a new interest rate 
once they had separated and there was a marital dispute marker on the account. She said 
this wasnt fair as it meant that once the last fixed rate expired, the mortgage reverted to the 
standard variable rate (SVR), increasing the monthly payments. 
Barclays said it wasnt the case that the mortgage was ineligible for new interest rates. But it 
said that because there was a dispute marker, both Ms B and her former husband would 
have to agree to apply for a rate  and which rate to apply for. It could arrange to speak to 
them separately  but it would need to speak to both of them, and have both sign an 
agreement, to apply a new rate.
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly, so Ms B asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has given us copies of its correspondence with Ms B and her former husband over 
the years. 
The mortgage offers show that the mortgage comes with a linked MCA, and Im satisfied that 
the account was in joint names from the beginning.
But Barclays accepts that because of a problem with its systems, it only sent the monthly 
statements to Ms Bs ex-husband. They were not addressed jointly, and no separate 
statements were sent to Ms B. 
However, the annual mortgage statements set out the amount of the MCA reserve, as did 
the regular rate switch offers. Those statements were jointly addressed. And in 2016 
Barclays wrote to Ms B and her ex-husband jointly notifying them that the MCA reserve was 
over its limit.
Ms B says that she wasnt aware of the MCA, because her ex-husband dealt with their 
finances and concealed it from her. Shes described some of the difficulties she experienced 
in the relationship, and Im sorry to hear of everything shes been through.
But this was a joint account. Under the terms and conditions, either party can use the 
account, and only one of them needs to authorise any transactions  until Barclays is notified 
of any dispute between them. By the time Ms B and her ex-husband separated and told 
Barclays about their dispute, the MCA limit had already been reached. So Barclays operated 
the account in accordance with the terms and conditions  though I also need to decide if it 
acted fairly.
I agree that Barclays should have ensured that statements were addressed to both parties. 
Ms B says that if shed been aware of the MCA, the balance wouldnt have been increased 
to £20,000. But I cant say that was definitely the case; if her ex-husband was able to 
conceal the use of the account and the annual statements from her, he may have been able 
to conceal the monthly ones too. Ultimately I dont think I have enough evidence to be able 
to say that but for Barclays mistake, the MCA account wouldnt have reached its limit.
And even if I were able to say that, it would mean that Barclays mistake allowed Ms Bs 
former partner to withdraw money from the MCA without her consent. And that would mean 
he was still liable for the borrowing. That borrowing would still be secured on their property, 
and still be part of the balance that Ms B needed to clear when she took over the property 
and took out her new mortgage in her own name  unless they had agreed between them 
that he would repay that part of the borrowing.
At its heart, this is a dispute between Ms B and her former husband. She considers that he 
was able to run up the balance on the MCA without her knowledge or agreement. And while 
Barclays failure meant that she didnt see the monthly statements, the root of the issue is 
that the MCA was increased in the first place. I understand Ms B and her former husband 
are now divorced, and Ms B has replaced this mortgage with one in her own name. As part 
of a divorce, there is a financial resolution procedure, and its through that process that the 
court would decide how their assets and liabilities should be divided up. Thats the forum for 
deciding who should be responsible for the borrowing on the MCA. 
Barclays has offered Ms B £150 compensation. I appreciate Ms B is very upset about what 
happened. But I have to separate what Barclays is responsible for from what her former 
husband may be responsible for. Barclays should have sent monthly statements addressed 
to both parties, not just one. But it communicated with them both in other ways. In all the circumstances, I think its offer of compensation is a fair one.
Ms B also complains about the interest rate. She says that when their last fixed rate expired, 
the mortgage was forced onto the more expensive standard variable rate (SVR). She says 
Barclays told her that where there was a dispute marker on the account a new rate couldnt 
be applied  which she later found wasnt true.
Barclays doesnt agree about that. It says that a new rate can be taken  but both Ms B and 
her former husband need to agree and apply. 
Im satisfied that is Barclays process. Ms B has named two members of staff she spoke to; 
neither remember the conversation with her, but both say that if it happened they would have 
given her the correct information about how to apply for a new rate.
Ms B is adamant in her recollection of what she was told. And one possibility is that shes 
right, and she was misinformed by the staff members. Its perfectly possible that a staff 
member who knows the process in general terms makes a mistake on a particular occasion. 
But its also possible that Ms B misunderstood or misremembered the conversations. If she 
was told that she couldnt have a new rate while there was a dispute on the account unless 
her former husband agreed, she might have remembered the first part of that but not the 
second.
In any case, even if Ms B was given correct information, I dont think I can say that its more 
likely than not that a new rate would have been applied to the mortgage. 
In the first place, her former husband might not have agreed, or might not have been willing 
to go through the application process.
And secondly, even if he was, taking a new rate might well not have been the right thing for 
them to do. All Barclays new interest rates come with early repayment charges (ERCs). An 
ERC is a charge for ending an interest rate early  and they can be substantial, up to 5% of 
the mortgage balance.
Ms B and her former husbands relationship had ended in difficult circumstances. They were 
in dispute, and trying to resolve their finances. The property might have ended up being sold, 
or  as in fact happened  one of them would take out their own mortgage to replace this 
one (as Ms B did). If any of those things happened during the life of a new rate, an ERC 
would have been charged. 
Ms B and her former husbands previous fixed rate expired in March 2018. If a new rate had 
been applied then, Ms B would have had to pay an ERC when she replaced this mortgage 
with one of her own. 
And in 2018 it wouldnt have been clear how or when this mortgage would have been 
brought to an end. Applying a new fixed rate when theres a good chance the mortgage will 
come to an end soon generally isnt the right thing to do, because of the risk of an ERC. And 
its likely a mortgage broker or Barclays would have advised them that.
So even if Barclays did mislead Ms B about being able to access a new rate, and if Ms B 
and her former husband had understood that they were in fact able to do so, Im not 
persuaded that taking out a new rate at that time would have been the right course, based 
on what would have been known at the time. So Im not persuaded that if Barclays did 
mislead her, that doing so caused any financial loss. And so I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im satisfied Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont require it to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman