DRN-3118312
The complaint
Mrs H, Miss L and Mr L complain about the price that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has 
charged them for their personal private medical insurance policy.
As Mr L represents Mrs H and Miss L, Ive referred to him throughout this decision for 
simplicity.
What happened
Mr L took out a Premier personal private medical insurance policy in November 2005. The 
policy was claims neutral, which meant that potential claims wouldnt have any impact on 
price. This also meant that that the policy didnt include a no claims discount (NCD).  The 
policy renewed each year. AXA ceased offering this type of policy to new members in 2012, 
but Mr Ls policy continued on the same terms.
In November 2019, Mr L got in touch with AXA to complain about the price hed been quoted 
to renew the policy. His total monthly quote was around £499. Hed been able to find 
alternative quotes with other insurers (and AXA) for significantly less and he was concerned 
that hed been overcharged. 
AXA quoted Mr L for a new, sole policy, which included a moratorium period of five years 
and which wasnt claims-neutral and benefited from an NCD. This policy cost around £114 
per month.
Mr L was unhappy with AXAs administration of the policy. He felt hed been paying over 
double the price that he shouldve been. He considered that AXA ought to have let him know 
that the Premier policy was being discontinued. And he felt AXA had a duty of care to ensure 
that he had the right type of policy and that it hadnt done so. He also felt hed been locked-
into a policy with AXA. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He explained that were not 
able to tell AXA how it should assess risk or what price it should charge to cover that risk. He 
didnt think the evidence indicated that AXA had singled Mr L out in any way. He said that 
AXA wasnt able to advise Mr L about what type of policy he ought to take. But he felt that 
AXA had informed Mr L that he should review the policy and check whether it was still right 
for him.
Mr L disagreed and Ive summarised his detailed responses to our investigator:
The product he held was untenable. He was locked-in to a policy, which had an 
exponential price rise, which would become unmanageable;
Health insurance was not like house or car insurance  the investigator had 
overlooked the gravity and complexities of the type of product;
AXA hadnt informed him that the Premier policy was going to be discontinued and 
he hadnt been provided with a path to an alternative policy without penalty;
Switching to another policy would mean a wait-period of six months before claims 
could be made;
Switching health insurers would mean taking a huge risk, which might be a matter of 
life or death;
He felt that AXA had suggested he review the cover to check it was still suitable for 
his needs  and it had been;
AXA hadnt explained the potential for premiums to rise exponentially given that this 
was a claims neutral contract when the policy had been sold to him, which would 
result in the price becoming unmanageable. The term claims neutral hadnt been 
mentioned and he felt key information about the pricing structure hadnt been 
explained to him. So he felt the policy had been mis-sold to him. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I explain that in this decision, I 
will only consider AXAs administration of the policy and whether it had a responsibility to tell 
Mr L about other policy options which mightve been cheaper during the life of the policy. Our 
rules say that we can only look into a complaint once a financial business we cover has had 
an opportunity to look into it and put things right. Mr L hasnt complained to AXA about the 
sale of his policy and therefore, it hasnt had an opportunity to look into the concerns hes 
raised or issue a response. So hell need to complain to AXA about the sale of the policy 
before were potentially able to consider it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint 
and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr L that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and his detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In making 
my decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The calculation of the premium
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Ls. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. 
AXAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, claims relating to Mr L, Miss L and Mrs Hs health). And if it does, what price it 
needs to charge for that. So AXA will have assessed the risk of Mr L, Miss L and Mrs H 
needing to make a claim when they first joined the Premier scheme and then at each yearly 
renewal afterwards.  If it thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because the risk-profile 
has increased or because health care costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the 
premium. 
So in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate 
the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr L, Miss 
L and Mrs H have been treated in the same way as any other AXA customer in similar 
circumstances and hasnt been singled out in any way. 
It seems Mr L, Miss L and Mrs Hs renewal premiums have increased year-on-year. And I 
understand that Mr L was able to obtain significantly cheaper quotes elsewhere around the 
time he made the complaint. So I can understand why theyre worried that AXA hasnt 
treated them reasonably. AXA has provided me with commercially sensitive, confidential 
information to show how the renewal prices since 2015 have been calculated. Im afraid that Im unable to share this information with Mr L, Miss L and Mrs H. But I hope it reassures 
them to know that I have considered this information carefully.
What I am able to tell Mr L though are the main reasons for the price increases. As AXA set 
out on page 62 of its policy document (which forms the basis of Mr Ls contract with AXA), 
the most common reasons for increases are down to age and advances in medical 
treatment, which can lead to increased treatment costs. Increases in Insurance Premium 
Tax can also cause the price to rise.
It's also clear that the reason Mr L was able to obtain cheaper quotes elsewhere and through 
AXA was because the pricing structure between the policy types was fundamentally 
different. Mr L was quoted for a moratorium policy, which wouldnt cover any conditions 
which existed in the five years before the policy began. And it included an NCD of 72%, 
which meant that the actual base price of the policy was substantially more than Mr L was 
already paying for cover. If Mr L had gone on to make claims on this type of policy, his 
premiums could significantly increase following the loss of his NCD level.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AXAs treated Mr L, Miss L and Mrs H in the same 
way it would any other policyholder who held a Premier policy and in similar circumstances 
to their own. So I cant reasonably say its treated them unfairly. I appreciate Mr L feels that 
as he didnt need to make claims or seek medical attention for many years, hes wrongly 
been overcharged. But considering the available evidence, Im satisfied AXA fairly calculated 
the premium in line with the product type Mr L held.
Did AXA have a duty of care to advise Mr L about cheaper insurance products?
Its clear Mr L feels strongly that AXA ought to have let him know about cheaper insurance 
products which wouldve reduced his premium. AXA isnt under any duty of care to advise its 
policyholders about potentially cheaper products and indeed, it cant provide Mr L with 
insurance advice at each renewal. Instead, its required to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information to help Mr L decide whether the policy remains right for him. 
So Ive looked carefully at the information AXA sent Mr L at renewal and also thought about 
Mr Ls previous contact with AXA to decide whether it provided him with enough clear 
information.
The renewal letter AXA sent Mr L on 13 October 2015 includes information about why 
subscriptions (premiums) may have increased. On page two, a section called How can I 
reduce my subscription? is included. This states that there are a number of ways that 
subscriptions can be reduced. It includes examples of choosing a higher excess or switching 
to a different plan. The letter provides a telephone number for policyholders to call if they 
wish to talk through plan options. This information was also set out in much the same format 
on the renewal letter AXA sent to Mr L on 13 October 2016. 
In October 2017, the renewal letter included an emboldened section called Answers to your 
Questions. This included the question as to how a policyholder could reduce their 
subscription and directed policyholders to a dedicated renewal internet site. From October 
2018 onwards, Mr Ls policy certificate included the following:
You have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover
you want at a better price if you shop around. We also have a range of other options which 
you may wish to consider. Please call us on...
Each renewal certificate clearly stated the new renewal price. I note too that the policy terms 
also set out, on page 62, how the premium could be reduced  broadly mirroring the explanation given on the 2016 and 2017 renewal letters. And so Im satisfied that taken 
together, AXA did give Mr L clear enough information about steps he could take to either 
reduce his premium if he wasnt happy with it and let him know that it did have other options 
available.
Ive also considered that both AXA and Mr L have told us that during the life of the policy, Mr 
L called to discuss the price. AXA says that in 2011, Mr L considered lapsing the policy. And 
that in 2017, he queried the price and was told he could shop around. But that hed opted to 
continue with the policy. Mr L says he wouldve called AXA a number of times over the years 
about the price and that he has a contact name on his renewal paperwork, which suggests 
this contact wouldve been about the price.
Overall then, I find that AXA made both the proposed price rises and the available steps Mr 
L could take to reduce the premium clear enough. Im also satisfied that Mr L did contact 
AXA to discuss the premium with it during the life of the policy and chose to continue with 
the Premier cover. 
Did AXA have a duty to advise Mr L that it was no longer selling the Premier policy?
Theres no dispute that AXA stopped offering the Premier policy to new customers in 2012. 
This was a commercial decision it was entitled to make. 
Mr L feels that AXA shouldve let him know about this decision and offered him the 
opportunity to switch products without penalty. I disagree. AXA continued to provide Mr L, 
Miss L and Mrs A with private medical insurance on the same level of cover on which it had 
been taken out. Mr L hadnt indicated to AXA that he was unhappy with the cover he held or 
stated that he wanted to change products. Had AXA withdrawn the Premier policy product 
itself and no longer insure Mr L, Id have expected it to contact Mr L in good time to advise 
him of such a withdrawal. However, this wasnt the case. So I dont think AXA needed to let 
Mr L know that it was no longer selling a claims-neutral policy. And as Ive set out above, 
AXA sent Mr L, Miss L and Mrs H renewal documentation each year. It was open to them to 
check whether the Premier policy remained right for them or whether other policies were 
available.
Is Mr L locked-in to the policy?
I appreciate that Mr L feels that he, Miss L and Mrs H are locked-in to the policy they have 
because of the potential risks of having less cover if they choose to switch. I can also see 
that AXA has explained the advantages of choosing a different policy to Mr L, although its 
also pointed out the downsides of doing so. In my view, this isnt effectively providing advice 
 its simply providing Mr L with clear information about his options.
I can appreciate why Mr L, Miss L and Mrs H may not wish to take out a new policy, given 
the potential impact on ongoing cover for any medical conditions they already have or may 
gone on to develop. And I do sympathise with their position. But ultimately, Mr L, Miss L and 
Mrs H have a free choice whether or not to keep the policy and whether they wish to take up 
the new contract offer at each renewal. This means that I dont think AXAs done anything 
wrong.
In summary, I dont find that AXA singled Mr L, Miss L or Mrs H out in any way when it 
calculated their price. I dont think it had any duty to offer Mr L a new policy when it ceased 
selling the Premier cover in 2012. And I think it provided him with clear enough information 
at each renewal to allow him to make an informed choice about whether or not to renew the 
policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H, Miss L and 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman