DRN-3555637
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim she made on 
her household insurance.
What happened
Ms W made a claim on her household insurance after a builder carrying out work on her 
property noticed her chimney was damaged. Ms W asked Ageas to contact her builder to 
obtain further details. The builder told Ageas that mortar had worn away. He said the cause 
was weather-related and that sap from large trees nearby had come into contact with the 
chimney causing damage.
 
Ageas contacted Ms W to explain that damage occurring gradually is excluded from cover. It 
declined her claim and went through Ms Ws policy wording with her pointing out this 
exclusion.  Ms W disagreed her claim should be declined and told Ageas that the damage 
was storm related. She sent it photos and video footage of her chimney. She said the trees 
mentioned by her builder wouldnt have had an impact and that her builders comments had 
been taken out of context. She said pointing and repairs had been carried out a few years 
ago.
Ageas said the images showed evident wear and tear over time. It said thered been no high 
winds in the few months running up to Ms Ws claim that could possibly have caused the 
damage as a one-off incident. Ms W told Ageas she was unhappy it hadnt sent anyone out 
to look at the damage and was unhappy with the tone Ageas used with her about her claim. 
She also said she was vulnerable.
 
Ageas issued its final response letter (FRL) to Ms Ws complaint. It said the decision to 
decline Ms Ws claim was correct because of her policys definition of a storm and because 
damage caused gradually was excluded. It apologised to Ms W for its emails lacking warmth 
and compassion. 
Ms W was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. She said she 
wanted the work to her chimney to be completed and for her builder to repay what hed 
overcharged her. She questioned how the trees could have affected her claim and said that 
the experience had been traumatic and that her health and her daughters health had been 
impacted.
Our investigators view didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ms W disagreed with this outcome. 
She said Ageas had ignored the video shed sent it and said it was wrong to say that her 
chimney could be affected by the roots of trees from across the road.
Ms W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the weather reports near to Ms Ws home in the few months running up to the 
date she made her claim and I cant see any weather conditions during this period which 
meet the definition of one identifiable storm event as set out in Ms Ws policy. So I dont think 
its unreasonable for Ageas to have said it didnt think thered been a one-off storm event 
that couldve damaged Ms Ws chimney.  
Ageas said the damage to Ms Ws chimney was caused gradually. Policy terms excluding 
damage caused gradually from cover are extremely common in insurance policies. And in 
section one of Ms Ws policy alongside where it lists Storm as a cause that is covered, it 
also says that loss or damagethat happens gradually over a period of time is not insured. 
Ms Ws builder said the damage was weather-related and that mortar had worn away. Ms 
Ws photos and videos support Ms Ws builders testimony that mortar had worn away and 
one video demonstrates that the chimneys mortar is crumbling. I think Ms Ws builder saying 
the damage was weather-related, is different to saying that the damage was caused by a 
one-off identifiable storm event. 
Ageas conclusion about the cause of the damage being gradual was reached by its experts. 
So for me to be able to say - on balance - that these conclusions are wrong, Id need to see 
a report from another expert saying the main cause of the damage was a storm. Ms W was 
invited to provide this service with her own experts report, but she said she wasnt able to. 
So there is no expert report saying that the main cause of the damage was a storm. And 
from my review of the photos and the videos, I dont think Ageas experts were being 
unreasonable in concluding that the damage to the chimney occurred gradually. I think the 
mortar would have worn away over time. And because I think the damage to Ms Ws 
chimney occurred gradually and wasnt caused by a storm, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
require Ageas to pay Ms Ws claim for damage to her chimney.
Ms W said Ageas ignored the video she sent it. The video supports Ms Ws builders 
testimony that the mortar had worn away and what the pictures showed. So even if Ageas 
had ignored the video, I dont think it wouldve altered Ageas decision to decline Ms Ws 
claim. 
Ms W is unhappy that Ageas didnt send someone to inspect her chimney. But Ms Ws 
builder described the damage to Ageas. And Ageas reviewed photographs of the damage. 
So I cant say Ageas was being unreasonable by not sending an assessor to inspect the 
damage. And even if Ageas had sent an agent to inspect the damage, I dont think it 
wouldve caused Ageas to change its decision to decline Ms Ws claim, given what the 
photos of her chimney showed. 
Ageas apologised in its FRL for the tone it used in its emails to Ms W, which I think this is a 
fair and reasonable resolution here.
In conclusion, I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so Im not upholding 
Ms Ws complaint. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms W was hoping for. Ms W has said 
that her experience has caused her stress and health problems, which Im sorry to hear 
about. But I cant say these were Ageas fault given that I dont think Ageas has acted fairly 
or unreasonably.Ms W told us she wants her builder to repay what hed overcharged her. Ms Ws builder 
wasnt an agent of Ageas, so this matter isnt something this service can consider. So Ms W 
will need to pursue this matter through other channels.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman