DRN-3078589
The complaint
D and D has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) undervalued its vehicle 
following a non-fault collision with a third-party vehicle.
What happened
D and D submitted a total loss claim on its commercial motor policy. After a review, Aviva 
offered D and D £25,500 to settle the claim as it said this represented the market value of 
the vehicle involved.
But D and D doesnt think this offer is fair and wants Aviva to pay what it thinks the vehicle is 
worth. D and D says to get a like for like replacement it would cost a lot more. D and D says 
this vehicle is worth closer to £29,000 and its impossible to get something similar for the 
amount Aviva is offering.
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator said the valuation 
placed on the vehicle by Aviva was fair. 
But D and D doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I start, I need to clarify something. In our investigators view dated 7 September 2021, 
our investigator stated that D and D only had the vehicle in its possession for two months. 
However, I note that this was incorrect, and D and D has now confirmed that it had the 
vehicle for 14 months, February 2020 to April 2021. 
D and D is unhappy with the valuation Aviva has placed on this vehicle. D and D says in 
October 2019 this car was on the market for £41,000. It was bought in February 2020 for 
£35,000. It was ex-demo and it had 5,000 miles on the clock. D and D says that in April 2021 
when it was deemed a total loss the finance balance outstanding on this vehicle was 
£28,674. 
D and D says that initially Aviva wouldnt engage to explain its valuation of the vehicle. But D 
and D says it was told by its broker that the valuation was based on depreciation. D and D 
says the valuation provided by Aviva isnt correct and it has provided two possible 
depreciation calculations of its own using a 15% guide. D and D says if you use the original 
price new, the value in April 2021 equates to £31,000. Or if you use the price D and D paid 
in February 2020, this would equate to approximately £28,000. 
D and D has provided an example of a similar vehicle which was for sale in Scotland for 
£28,495. This was a 2019 vehicle with 1,849 miles on the clock. D and D says the mileage is 
obviously lower, but that its vehicle had a higher spec and that vehicles are generally more 
expensive in Scotland. D and D also says its been fully and comprehensively insured on all 
its vehicles and it cant understand how an incident, that wasnt its fault, is now costing it 
thousands of pounds. D and D says this is clearly a case of big business causing an injustice 
and would like this service to use fairness and common sense to put this right. 
This service has an established approach to valuation cases https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/complaints-can-help/insurance/motor-insurance/vehicle-
valuations-write-offs And when looking at the valuation placed on a vehicle by an insurance 
company, I have to consider the approach the insurer has adopted and decide whether the 
valuation is fair in all the circumstances. It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact 
valuation for a consumers vehicle. Our approach is to consider whether Aviva has settled D 
and Ds claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, fairly and reasonably using 
our established approach. 
So, Ive considered the terms of the policy and the offer made. And I can see that in the 
event the vehicle cant be repaired, Aviva wont pay more than the market value of the 
vehicle at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make, 
model, specification and condition.
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade guides 
for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This 
takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
If any guides price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its 
reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. And that can sometimes be the case. And 
especially in todays volatile market, we would always consider all evidence submitted as 
long as its relevant. But differences in mileage or year of registration can significantly affect 
value. Although adverts can sometimes be helpful if they strongly indicate that the guides 
could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of D and Ds vehicle at the time of the 
incident and they produced the following valuations: 
CAP - £23,100
Glasss - £23,720
Cazana - £25,187
All these valuations are inclusive of VAT.
After initially offering £23,500, an engineer from Aviva looked at this again and made a 
renewed offer of £25,500. And taking everything thats been submitted into account, I cant 
conclude that Avivas offer is unreasonable. I say this as Aviva has offered more than the top 
trade guide valuation that Ive seen so I think its offer is fair and in line with our approach. 
Ive also looked separately at some of the market values provided, in particular the list of 
values on the Cazana trade guide. And I can see that Avivas valuation for this specific 
vehicle is in line with what was on the market at that time. The valuation that D and D has 
provided is actually an outlier at £28,495, but that could be down the low mileage on its example. Almost all valuations Ive seen of same year and similar mileage to D and Ds 
vehicle are between £24,000 and £26,000. 
As I said its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on D and Ds vehicle. Its our 
role to make sure Aviva is giving D and D a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. I 
appreciate the arguments D and D has made. But the policy isnt in place to cover finance 
owed on a vehicle. Its in place to pay a market value as defined in the policy. I understand 
and acknowledge the other arguments D and D has made about depreciation and location. 
But Aviva has shown in its file that it used the trade guides to come to its valuation. And 
based on the information provided about D and Ds vehicle and using these trade guides 
alongside the evidence D and D has submitted, Im satisfied that the market value that Aviva 
has placed on D and Ds vehicle is fair and reasonable based on our established approach. I 
also note D and D was paid £100 from Aviva for delays. And Im also satisfied this is fair, 
given what Ive seen on file. Because of this I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D and D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman