DRN-4427417
The complaint
L, a company, complains about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds (Hiscox) decision to 
refuse a claim it made under its business insurance policy and void the cover.
Ls complaint is brought by a representative on its behalf, but I shall refer to all submissions 
made as its own for ease of reference.
What happened
L took out a professional indemnity insurance policy with Hiscox and renewed it thereafter.
In October 2020 L made a claim on the policy it had taken out at renewal, at which point it 
came to Hiscox attention that L was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority- 
something Hiscox said they were unaware of previously. Hiscox declined the claim on the 
basis that L hadnt represented the position with regard to how it was regulated when 
renewing the insurance. Hiscox said that had L told them this, they wouldnt have provided 
cover. As a result, Hiscox voided the policy.
L says the position Hiscox has taken is unfair and that it was common knowledge that the 
work it did became regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority when it did. It also says the 
misrepresentation Hiscox have referred to was prepopulated by Hiscox and not it. L 
considers there was no change in the type of business it did when it became regulated, the 
position Hiscox have taken about cover and the voidance of the policy is unreasonable.
Our investigator considered Ls complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that L was asked specifically about whether its business was regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, to which the form was ticked No and that L had a duty to check the 
representations it was making were true. The investigator was also satisfied that Hiscox 
wouldnt have insured L had they known that L was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Because of this she said it was reasonable for Hiscox to turn down Ls claim, void 
the policy and return the premium. 
L doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by 
the investigator. This is why.
When L took out the policy thats the subject of this complaint with Hiscox, the relevant law 
was the Insurance Act 2015, under which theres a duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk. 
When buying or renewing the policy the party seeking insurance  in this case, L  was 
required to disclose every circumstance it knew, or should have known about, which would 
influence a prudent insurer in deciding whether to underwrite a risk or what premium to 
charge. In addition to the legal position, the documents provided to L made clear how 
important it was to provide relevant information.
L doesnt dispute that it was under a duty to provide material evidence when taking out the 
cover. And it was specifically asked to confirm whether it was regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority or the Prudential Regulation Authority or are you involved in arranging or 
advising on any finance, investments or loans?. The schedule that L agreed to answered 
no to this. 
L has said that the insurance automatically renewed each year and that whilst it was the 
case that in previous years, it wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, this 
changed, but the documents that it was provided with hadnt and it didnt notice that the 
question remained prepopulated with the incorrect answer.  L also says it was common 
knowledge that businesses like the one it operated as became regulated when it did. Whilst 
this might be right, I dont think I can say that L did fairly present the risk it was seeking 
insurance for, irrespective of what might have been in the public domain. Thats because the 
covering letter enclosing the renewal documents set out that L needed to check them 
carefully and ensure all of the details were correct. It also said that L needed to tell it if 
anything had changed, either then or in the future. Im satisfied that this letter was clear on 
the question of what L needed to do. Given the content of the letter and Ls wider legal duty 
to disclose anything that would influence the insurers decision about offering cover, my 
judgment is that L should have reasonably answered Yes to the question about being 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. And it wasnt up to Hiscox to infer whether the 
information contained within the schedule it sent was wrong- that was up to L to correct 
given its change in status. So, this should have been disclosed. By not telling Hiscox about 
this, L mispresented the risk and failed to meet its legal duty  whether the duty of utmost 
good faith or the duty make a fair presentation of the risk.
If the insured party fails to disclose this kind of circumstance, and the insurer can show it
would not have offered the policy if it had been disclosed, its entitled to void the policy. And
if the breach was deliberate or reckless, it doesnt have to refund the premium to the insured.
Ive considered whether Hiscox has shown Ls failure to disclose it became regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority would have made a difference. The information Ive seen 
strongly suggests this would have been the case. From what Ive seen answering yes to the 
question would have meant that Hiscox wouldnt have offered L cover because they would 
have considered the to them risk as unacceptable. So, I think Hiscox has been 
disadvantaged here.
I appreciate that L didnt intend to give misleading information about the change in its status 
in terms of how it was regulated, but ultimately it was responsible for disclosing this. And 
given that Hiscox have returned the policy premium to L, I think this accords with the 
misrepresentation being careless rather than deliberate or reckless. If Hiscox was satisfied 
that the misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless, it would have been entitled to 
withhold the policy premium. In this case Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was 
careless, so I think the return of the premium was reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, I have taken on board all of Ls detailed submissions in this 
complaint. Although I havent addressed each and every one of them here, I dont think they 
change things given our longstanding approach to misrepresentations like the one L made, 
which incorporates taking a fair and reasonable position in respect of each complaint. Taking 
account of the relevant law, the policy terms and all the circumstances as well as whats fair and reasonable, I think Hiscox decision to decline Ls claim and void the insurance was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ls complaint against Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman