DRN-4047140
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Vitality Health Limited has handled a claim he made on a 
private medical insurance policy
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so I dont intend to set it 
out in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Mr M is insured under this employers private medical insurance policy. Vitality began 
insuring Mr M in 2015 and the policy was provided on External Switch with Exclusions 
underwriting terms. Mr Ms previous insurer had excluded depression from policy cover. This 
meant that Vitality also excluded cover for any claims due to depression.
In November 2021, Mr M was given a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), 
alongside moderate depressive disorder, by a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist recommended 
that as part of his treatment, Mr M should attend a day hospital and receive eye movement 
desensitisation reprogramming (EMDR) treatment. So Mr M made a claim on the policy for 
the treatment costs.
Vitality asked for further medical information from Mr Ms GP. It concluded that Mr M had 
been receiving psychotherapy treatment for PTSD since 2018. Therefore, it considered that 
this condition was chronic. Treatment for chronic conditions is specifically excluded by the 
policy terms. However, it noted that Mr M hadnt previously had a course of treatment to 
specifically treat PTSD. So it agreed to cover eight sessions of EMDR, in line with the policy 
terms.
Mr M was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator concluded that Vitality had handled Mr Ms claim fairly. She felt it
appeared Mr M had been referred to the day hospital for treatment of depression, which was
specifically excluded from cover. So she thought it had been fair for Vitality to decline to
cover these costs or those which were related to depression. And she noted that Mr Ms 
psychologist (who Ill call Ms B), had stated that her psychotherapy sessions with Mr M had
been focused on treatment of PTSD since Mr M had suffered an assault in 2018. So she
thought itd been fair for Vitality to deem Mr Ms condition to be chronic. Therefore, she
considered it had been reasonable for Vitality to limit cover for treatment of PTSD to the
eight sessions of EMDR it had agreed to pay for.
Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised the further evidence he provided. He sent us a letter
from Ms B which stated that none of the treatment shed provided prior to Mr Ms diagnosis
of PTSD in November 2021 was based on a diagnosis of PTSD. Mr M said that his treatment
through the day hospital had been for PTSD. He said that the work hed carried out with Ms
B prior to November 2021 had been cognitive behavioural therapy, which aimed to develop
coping strategies for severe depression and his then untreated symptoms of PTSD. He said
that PTSD was a separate diagnosis to depression and shouldnt be contractually excluded
on the basis of the existing exclusion for depression. He didnt feel that PTSD met the limbs
of the definition of a chronic condition and that therefore, Vitality should be covering the
treatment of PTSD.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Vitality had treated him fairly. I said:
First, its clear that Mr M has been through a very difficult time. I was very sorry to read 
about the assault he suffered and the clear impact its had on him. I was pleased to note that 
the EMDR treatment hes undergone seems to have been successful. Id also like to 
reassure Mr M that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint, Ive carefully 
considered all hes said and sent us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on 
each point Mr M has made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what 
I believe to be the key issues.
I must also make it clear that this decision will only consider whether Vitality considered Mr
Ms claim fairly at the point it assessed the claim and issued its second final response letter.
That means that necessarily, my provisional decision can only take into account the medical
evidence which was likely to have been available to Vitality when that claims decision was
made.
Mr M has now sent us a copy of a further letter from Ms B, which is dated 28 November
2018, but which appears to have been drafted following our investigators assessment of the
complaint. Therefore, I think the letter was intended to be dated 28 November 2022. It isnt
clear whether Vitality has had an opportunity to consider or comment on this evidence and to
decide whether or not it affects its claims decision. As such, it wouldnt be appropriate for me
to consider this letter as part of this provisional decision, as Id effectively be reassessing the
claim on Vitalitys behalf. Its open for Mr M to send this evidence on to Vitality for its further
consideration though. If Mr M is unhappy with the outcome of any review of this evidence, he
may be able to make a new complaint to Vitality about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Vitality
handled his claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract
between Mr M and Vitality. Its common ground that when Vitality began to underwrite Mr
Ms policy, it applied an exclusion for all claims for depression. Vitality has also relied on the
policy exclusion for chronic conditions, so Ive set out Vitalitys definition of a chronic
condition below:
A chronic condition is a disease, illness, or injury that has at least one or more of the
following characteristics:
 it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups,
  and/or tests
 it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
 it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
 it continues indefinitely
 it has no known cure
 it comes back or is likely to come back.
Vitalitys clinician reviewed Mr Ms medical records and concluded that PTSD should be
considered to be chronic. So Ive thought about whether this was a fair conclusion for Vitality
to draw. Its important I make clear that I am not a medical expert. My decision is based onan assessment of the available medical evidence provided by the medical professionals who
were responsible for Mr Ms care, and the medical opinion of Vitalitys clinician.
Mr M kindly provided us with a copy of his medical records and Ive considered these very
carefully.
Firstly, Ive noted that Mr Ms GP records of 15 June 2018 include the following note:
thinks maybe element of PTSD related to (the assault).
Ive considered a letter dated 4 June 2020 from a psychiatrist who assessed Mr M. This
letter states that Mr M was referred to the psychiatrist by Ms B for an opinion, following
recent worsening of depression and PTSD. The letter says that Mr had been assaulted in
early 2018which led to emergence of PTSD symptoms. He went on to say:
I formed the impression that Mr M has suffered from recurrent depression with anxietyand
more recent PTSD.
The psychiatrist recommended a change to Mr Ms medication.
A record within Mr Ms medical records dated 18 January 2021 states: was diagnosed with
PTSD by private psych.
In March 2021, Mr M was seen at A&E. These notes say that Mr M had a hx (history) of
PTSD. The records also state that Mr M was known with history of PTSD, anxiety and
depression.
The GPs records for March 2021 also include an entry which states: history of recurrent
depression, PTSD  (diagnosed) by private psych.
Mr Ms GP noted, on 17 June 2021, that Mr M had been prescribed medication which was
given for PTSD. And in August 2021, Mr Ms GP noted during a depression interim review
that Mr M was seeing therapist weekly PTSD work  this will not go away but working with
it.
And Ive looked closely at a letter Ms B sent to Vitality in December 2021. This says that Mr
M had been undergoing weekly psychology treatment with her since 2017. Crucially, it refers
to the assault Mr M suffered in early 2018. The letter sets out the symptoms Mr M
experienced and states: The focus of the treatment has been based on post-traumatic
stress disorder since that incident. Mr M never reported any PTSD symptoms before 2018.
The letter refers to the change in medication that the private psychiatrist had recommended
in 2020. But it says that by June 2021, Mr M reported no changes in terms of his anxiety
and panic attacks.
Ive also carefully considered the letter sent by a second psychiatrist in November 2021. This
says that mood stability is a long-standing feature, but Mr M is usually able to have periods
of stability in between the episodes of low mood. When mood deteriorates, flashbackstend
to intensify as is the case now.
The psychiatrist provided with Mr M with a diagnosis of both PTSD and depressive disorder.
They recommended, amongst other treatment suggestions, that Mr M would benefit from a
course of EMDR and that he would benefit from attending the day hospital twice a week for
immediate access to group therapy and for close monitoring of mental state and risk.
In my view, the medical evidence available to Vitality when it assessed the claim, dating
back to 2018, indicates that Mr M was undergoing treatment with Ms B for PTSD from 2018onwards. She made specific reference to the focus of the psychotherapy treatment being
based on PTSD. The medical records indicate that Mr M was prescribed medication, in part
aimed at treating PTSD. And it appears that neither the psychotherapy nor medication
successfully treated Mr Ms symptoms of PTSD. As such then, it appears to me that based
on the evidence it had available, it was fair for Vitality to conclude that Mr Ms PTSD
symptoms had required ongoing consultations and ongoing treatment for over three years, at
the time of claim. Accordingly, I think it was fair and reasonable for Vitality to deem Mr Ms
condition to be chronic.
However, Vitality decided against declining the claim in full, which I think it had been entitled
to do, based on the policy terms. Instead, it agreed to cover eight sessions of EMDR, as a
specific, targeted treatment for PTSD. In my view, this was a very fair and appropriate
response from Vitality.
It's clear Mr M has incurred other costs  for clinic consultations and potentially for treatment
at the day hospital too. I dont think it was unfair for Vitality not to meet those costs though. I
say that because Mr Ms clinic consultations since November 2021 appear to have been
based on his depressive disorder, in addition to the PTSD diagnosis. As Ive set out above,
depression is clearly excluded from cover under the terms of Mr Ms policy. And the
psychiatrists letter of November 2021 doesnt appear to indicate that day hospital treatment
was for PTSD only. That being so, I think it appears that the referral to the day hospital could
also have been intended to provide treatment for Mr Ms long-standing depression and
anxiety. This means then, that I also think it was reasonable for Vitality to decline to cover
these costs.
I sympathise with Mr Ms position because its clear that hes been through a difficult time
and I appreciate my decision is likely to cause him further upset, although this is certainly not
my intention. But overall, based on the evidence available to it to in April 2022, when it
issued its second final response, I think Vitality handled Mr Ms claim fairly. And so I dont
intend to direct it to do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
Vitality didnt respond. Mr M said he had no further evidence to submit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any additional evidence, or substantive 
comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman