DRN-1346884
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the premiums charged on his home insurance with Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr Ms insurance policy was transferred to Aviva in 2018. The insurance was underwritten 
by another business before this. In 2018 the insurance cost £407.79 for the year. The 
premium increased to £413.99 in 2019  and it was at this time Mr M chose not to renew the 
policy.  
Mr M feels his premium was too high and he has since found a cheaper home insurance 
policy with another business. He thinks the level of cover on his policy was excessive and 
this was the reason for the cost being so high. Aviva says it didnt overcharge Mr M and that 
he accepted the insurance cover in 2018 knowing what the premium was. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed and the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should have cost. I would be, in 
effect determining or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Aviva has treated Mr M fairly throughout the period he held his 
insurance policy with them. If I find that Aviva hasnt treated Mr M fairly, I will look to see 
what compensation would be fair. 
When Mr Ms policy was taken over by Aviva in 2018, it cost £407.79 for the year. The 
previous year under a different underwriter it had cost £360.96. I can see that Aviva wrote to 
Mr M with this information in July 2018. It said that if he would like to renew his cover he 
would have to call them and because they had recently taken over as the insurer, the policy 
wouldnt auto-renew. It said that if it didnt hear from him it would assume he no longer 
required the policy. I note this letter also said please check this cover still meets your needs. 
You have been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you 
want at a better price if you shop around.
Avivas records show Mr M called to renew the policy  so presumably he was happy with 
the price at that time. If he wasnt happy with what Aviva was offering, he could have gone 
elsewhere to get a different policy  as he did the following year when he chose not to renew 
his policy.  
Mr M says he was able to find a much cheaper policy in 2019 with another business. Ive 
thought about this. But I must also take into account that any new policy quoted in 2019 
possibly included a discount on the premium cost and different insurers will have a different view of the risk of insuring a particular property. So I cant agree Mr M was treated unfairly 
by Aviva just because hes now been able to get cheaper cover elsewhere.
Mr M also makes the point that he had the incorrect amount of cover on his policy and was 
effectively over insured. He says the policy insured him for more than the property was 
worth. Ive thought about this point. But Aviva sent him a copy of his insurance schedule 
alongside the letter in July 2018. This laid out clearly and in detail what the insurance 
covered him for. As Mr M chose to call Aviva and renew his policy, presumably he was 
happy with the details of the policy including what it covered him for. If he was unhappy with 
the level of cover he couldve raised it with Aviva at the time  and I cant see he did so. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but I do not think Aviva acted unfairly here 
so dont uphold this complaint
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Gemma Farrell
Ombudsman