DRN-3401547
The complaint
Mr M complains that Artisan Financial Limited gave unsuitable advice to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a personal pension. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr M to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ms.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) , or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M approached Artisan to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Artisan wasnt 
authorised by the regulator to give DB pension transfer advice. So it referred Mr M to 
another company, which Ill refer to as Firm I, to give him advice concerning his DB scheme 
pension.
Mr M, who was accompanied by his brother  as he was in a similar position  met with an 
adviser from Firm I to discuss his options. An adviser from Artisan was present at that 
meeting. 
In January 2018 Firm I produced a Pension Transfer Initial Assessment and Summary 
Sheet. It later followed that with a suitability report concerning transferring Mr Ms pension 
benefits to a personal pension. Under a heading of Service proposition and reviews that 
suitability report said:
We have performed this pension transfer review and report on behalf of your financial 
adviser, [name of adviser] of Artisan Financial Planning. Once the transfer of funds has been 
fully implemented [name of Artisans adviser] will transfer this plan to his agency with the 
[personal pension provider] and will take on the servicing of your ongoing advice.
In 2021 Mr M complained to Artisan about the suitability of the transfer advice. Artisan didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it wasnt involved with the recommendation to transfer out of 
the DB scheme. It said it didnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions for that type of 
business. It said the advice to transfer was given by Firm I.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Amongst other things Mr M said Artisan had told 
him that he would be missing the biggest opportunity of your life if you didnt transfer. He 
added that Artisan had entered into a joint venture with Firm I and as such was responsible 
for the advice to transfer out of the scheme. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. She said she was 
satisfied that Artisan didnt advise Mr M to transfer out of his DB scheme. She didnt think 
Artisans actions had gone beyond that of introducing Mr M to Firm I.
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr M has made a number of points. And I've considered all the 
evidence relevant to this complaint carefully. But I dont intend to address each point 
individually. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr Ms 
complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Mr M has also complained about the advice provided by Firm I. We are looking at that 
complaint under a separate reference number; so I dont intend to provide any analysis of 
Firm Is actions in this decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons given 
by the investigator.
Did Artisan advise Mr M to transfer?
Artisan didnt have the regulators authority to give advice concerning a DB transfer and 
introduced Mr M to Firm I, which did have the relevant permission. And Artisan gave Mr M 
financial advice after the transfer had been completed. So I can understand why Mr M might 
have felt Artisan had an instrumental role to play in the pension transfer advice process. But 
that doesn't mean it gave him advice or made a recommendation to transfer Mr Ms benefits 
from his DB scheme.
Mr M said that Artisan told him he would be missing the opportunity of a lifetime if he didnt 
transfer the benefits from his DB pensions to a personal pension. In other words hes said 
that Artisans adviser made remarks that led him to believe that Artisan was recommending 
the transfer. Clearly I wasnt there when Mr M met with Artisan. So I can't know exactly what 
was or wasnt exchanged between them. Its certainly possible that Artisan might have made 
comments that Mr M understood were in support of a transfer. But I don't think that goes as 
far as giving advice or making a recommendation. And the evidence Ive seen shows it was 
Firm I that produced the pension transfer and suitability reports. It was also Firm I that made 
a recommendation to Mr M, not Artisan. So, regardless of any positive comments that 
Artisan might have made about the possibility of a transfer, I dont think that makes Artisan 
responsible for the advice Firm I gave to Mr M to transfer out of his DB scheme.
I'm aware that once Firm I had given its advice it referred Mr M back to Artisan for it to 
provide ongoing financial advice. But the fact that Artisan continued to provide advice after 
the DB pension transfer doesn't mean that Artisan was responsible for the earlier advice 
given by an entirely different firm.
It follows that Im satisfied that Artisans role in connection with the DB pension transfer was 
limited to making an introduction. And as such, I find that it isn't in any way responsible for 
the advice Firm I provided. Did Artisan and Firm I embark on a joint venture?
Mr M says a joint venture existed between Artisan and Firm I to facilitate Mr M transferring 
out of the DB schemes and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss 
Mr M has suffered.
I understand that Artisan and Firm I have a commercial arrangement. But that arrangement 
is not evidence of a joint venture which would make Artisan liable for the advice Firm I gave 
to Mr M to transfer his DB pension benefits. Although Mr M has implied that Artisan did give 
him advice, despite not having the relevant permission to do so, Im satisfied Mr M 
transferred his DB benefits because Firm I advised him to, independently of Artisans 
involvement. So I think any losses Mr M suffered flow from Firm Is advice, rather than 
because of any interaction he had with Artisan before that.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Artisans advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Ms decision to transfer out of his DB schemes, without the actions of Firm I. Im also not 
persuaded that Artisan made an error or treated Mr M unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Artisan to pay compensation to Mr M or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman