DRN-3813676
The complaint
Mr R complains about Monzo Bank Ltd.
He says that Monzo didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like Monzo to refund him the money he has lost as a result of the scam. 
What happened
On 12 February 2022, Mr R saw a notification on his phone for a card check on a payment 
that he did not recognise.
Shortly afterwards, Mr R was contacted by someone purporting to be from Monzos fraud 
team, who told him that a loan had been taken out in his name, and that two payments had 
also been made to purchase cryptocurrency.
This individual persuaded Mr R to approve the loan application, which would effectively 
cancel the one supposedly taken out by the fraudster and to authorise the payments to 
crypto which in turn would reverse these payments also.
The loan taken out was for £6,000, and Mr R authorised two payments to purchase crypto of 
£2,319 and £2,520.
Mr R then realised he had been the victim of a scam and had effectively authorised the loan 
application and transactions rather than reversing them as he had been told by the 
scammer.
He complained to Monzo, and it didnt uphold his complaint. He then brought his complaint 
to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint, who thought it should be upheld in part. Mr R 
agreed to this, but Monzo did not  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for broadly the same reasons 
as out Investigator. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr R isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
However, while I dont dispute Mr R was being scammed, and understand Mr R had been 
tricked into instructing Monzo to approve the loan and make the payments, and that he 
never intended the payments to go to the scammers, I think that he did authorise them. 
Its also accepted that Monzo has an obligation to follow Mr Rs instructions. So, in the
first instance he is presumed liable for the loss. But there are other factors that must be 
taken into account.
I should firstly say that as the payments were made as international payments, and not to an 
account held by another person within the UK, the principles of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code do not apply in this case. 
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. This means I think that Monzo should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
So, Ive considered what this means for the loan application and subsequent payments.
The loan application was made using Mr Rs correct information and was not for a 
significantly high amount  the reason for the loan was not given. It appears that Monzo 
allows consumers to take out loans without specifying the purpose of the loan, so I dont 
think that Monzo knew it would be used for investment purposes at the time the application 
was made, however I dont see that this is specifically prohibited in any event. 
The initial payment made was for £2,319  which while higher than Mr Rs usual spend, I 
dont consider to be so uncharacteristic or unusual to have triggered a response from Monzo 
at this time.
However, the second payment of £2,520 took Mr Rs spend to almost £5,000 for the day  
and was again his second payment to crypto only a short time after taking out a loan. I think 
that this second payment, taken in conjunction with the newly applied for loan and the earlier 
payment ought to have caused Monzo reasonable concern. 
I think that Monzo should have got in touch at this time to and I would have expected it to 
have questioned Mr R about the payment  including what the payment was for, and the 
surrounding context  and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover 
a potential fraud or scam.
Mr R hadnt been coached  he had been manipulated into making the payments, and he 
thought he was speaking with Monzo when he authorised them, so I think that an 
intervention from a genuine member of Monzo would have quickly uncovered what was 
going on, and the scam stopped from this point.
Should Mr R bear some responsibility for the loss?
I do also have to consider if Mr R should bear some responsibility for the loss here  and 
having considered the information available, I do think that it is fair that Mr R share equal responsibility with Monzo for the loss. I say this because Mr R had previously been the victim 
of a scam and been warned by Monzo about scammers telling customers that their account 
was no longer safe, and to authorise payments in order to protect their account and money.
So, I do think that Mr R should have had more awareness and recognised that he could be 
being scammed again, when someone purporting to be from Monzo called him saying his 
account had been compromised  especially when the actions the scammer told him to take 
in authorising a loan application and payments to crypto to cancel supposedly fraudulent 
activity didnt seem to make sense. And I think that he should have applied more caution 
than he did. 
Putting things right
Monzo should pay Mr R 50% of the second payment. I calculate this to be £1260.
I make no award for interest as the funds originally came from the loan. I understand that 
this loan has been paid off and no interest has been applied to this either.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman