DRN-3106274
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Invesco Fund Managers Limited (Invesco) failed to properly 
supervise the investment strategy of the Invesco High Income Fund (the fund) over a 
number of years resulting in Mr S investment suffering financial loss.
What happened
Mr S had been invested in the fund for over twenty-six years. Hes said that the value of the 
fund deteriorated over recent years and between October 2017 and April 2020 his 
investment in the fund dropped by around 40%.
Mr S feels this happened because Invesco failed to properly supervise the fund and allowed 
the fund manager to invest in small cap, illiquid companies. He feels Invesco should not 
have allowed this type of strategy and failed to adhere to its fiduciary duties.
In response to the complaint Invesco stated that the fund had always been managed in line 
with its objectives and the investment decisions of the fund manager had at all times been 
appropriately supported and challenged.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Invescos response and so referred the complaint to this Service 
where it was assessed by one of our investigators. He was of the view that the drop in the 
fund value was due mainly to the fluctuations in the market rather that due to anything 
Invesco did wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that Invesco didnt exercise 
proper control over the management of the fund. He said Invesco allowed the fund manager 
to purchase stocks outside of the terms of reference of the fund  specifically illiquid small 
caps and unquoted companies. And that Invesco should have known what was happening 
with the fund and intervened sooner.
The investigator considered Mr S comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules; guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, Ive reached my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.  
I can appreciate why Mr S is disappointed with the drop in value of the fund. It has certainly 
struggled to perform over the years. However, for me to uphold this complaint and ask 
Invesco to redress Mr S in the amount he feels his investment has lost I need to be able to 
safely conclude that Invesco is wholly responsible for this. And given the information 
provided I cannot do that.
In my view the specific investments Mr S has highlighted as being problematic were 
permitted within the investment objectives of the fund. It can be seen the Invesco Omnibus 
Prospectus  issued 29 May 2020 at page 100 the Invesco High Income Fund (UK)s 
Investment Objective and Policy explicitly includes a reference to private/ unlisted 
companies within the Investment Objective and Policy. It states:
In pursuing the Funds investment objective, the fund manager may consider it appropriate 
to also invest in other transferable securities (including private and unlisted equities and non 
UK companies), money-market instruments, collective investment schemes (including funds 
managed by the Invesco group), deposits and cash. 
Furthermore, the Key Investor Information Document (issued 29 May 2020) refers to private 
and unlisted equities within the Objectives and Investment Policy and the associated risk 
warning within the section entitled Other Risks on the first page. And the factsheet for 
Invesco High Income Fund (covering the month of May 2020) in the table entitled 
Quoted/Unquoted breakdown a risk warning regarding investment in private and unlisted 
equities within the section entitled Investment Risks was included.
So, while the investment strategy did change slightly  focusing more and more on unlisted 
companies  it seems from the information above this diversion was allowed so it isnt 
unreasonable that Invesco was not alarmed by this or that it felt no need to take any action 
for a time.
Its also worth pointing out that it would have been unwise for Invesco to take any hasty 
action or make any significant changes to the fund without making a considered assessment 
of all relevant factors. Any changes to the fund prescribed by Invesco would have had a 
significant impact on Invescos client so a robust decision making and oversight process 
would have been required to ensure that the actions were taken in the best interest of 
Invescos clients. And this isnt something that could have been done quickly or as a knee 
jerk reaction to the fluctuations in the fund. This could have been just as harmful for the fund 
as taking no action at all.
So, it isnt unreasonable to me that Invesco took some time to intervene. However, having 
said that, I know that Invesco did continuously monitor the fund through its risk function. It 
also intervened in the investment strategy sometime after 2019 and pushed through the 
decision to dispose of unquoted assets within the fund in order to re-deploy capital raised to 
publicly quoted assets.
From this information, along everything thing else I have reviewed I am satisfied that Invesco 
took action when it felt it was necessary to stabilise the fund and that it acted appropriately in 
relation to its oversight of the fund.
Ultimately any investment will fluctuate over time  that is the nature of investing and poor 
performance isnt necessarily an indicator of negligent fund management. However I agree 
the funds value has suffered more than some other funds over the years but I would say this 
was due to the unstable economic and political climate which naturally has a knock-on effect 
on the investment market. Its also likely the fund suffered as a result of the controversy 
surrounding its previous fund manager. Given what happened to the fund this individual was managing at the time its very likely that many investors decided to withdraw from the this 
fund purely because of its association with this individual. 
So while I appreciate Mr S concerns over the value of the fund, it seems to me that Invesco 
has taken action it felt was appropriate over the course of the last few years. I therefore cant 
safely conclude that Invesco has failed in its duties which effected the performance of the 
fund. And I think a number of factors have impacted the fund rather than this being down to 
anything Invesco has done.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman