DRN-4297962
The complaint
Mr N complains that hes been overcharged on his mortgage by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr N got a mortgage illustration based on an interest rate of 3%. Mr N applied through 
Barclays mobile banking to switch his rate commencing November 2022 to a five-year 
tracker at Bank of England Base Rate (BEBR) plus 0.75%. Mr N noticed that the end date 
and contractual monthly payment (CMP) he was charged were wrong. Barclays apologised 
for the poor customer experience at rate switch and amended the end date, refunded 
£265.62 and offered £200 compensation.
Mr N said that the rate was wrong and should be as in the mortgage illustration at 3.0% and 
not the 3.5% applied. Barclays however, said that this was a tracker rate and the rate 
increased in November. But it agreed that it had taken too much by direct debit in November 
when it had applied the standard variable rate. On reconsideration it credited a further 
£28.32 to Mr N. Our investigator thought that this was fair. Mr N disagreed and asked for a 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays made a number of errors on Mr Ns account when he switched his interest rate at 
the end of October 2022 to a tracker rate at 0.75% above BEBR but in my view these issues 
have now been sorted. The length of the mortgage product was adjusted to a five-year rate 
as Mr N had originally wanted. Mr N thought he was getting an interest rate of 3.0% but the 
interest rate went up in November 2022 and as Mr N had applied for a tracker rate his 
interest rate also went up. That wasnt an error.
Its accepted that Barclays made an error by applying the standard variable rate rather than 
the tracker rate. This required two adjustments and refunds to Mr N. As I understand it the 
position was that in November 2022, Barclays took a direct debit of £1,202.45. But Barclays 
took too much. It should have taken £908.51, and it has now refunded £293.94 although that 
of course means, as this amount is no longer credited to the account, Mr Ns mortgage 
balance will increase.
Im satisfied that the mortgage account has now been satisfactorily adjusted to reflect the 
position it should have been in if the tracker rate had been applied correctly. Although 
Barclays caused a problem with the account Im satisfied that this has been fairly sorted and 
that as this is a tracker rate that the increase in his CMP was the result of the BEBR 
increase as happens if the mortgage is on a tracker rate. I also believe that the 
compensation offered by Barclays of £200 for its error is a fair reflection of the distress that 
Barclays error caused Mr N and I dont require it to make any increased payment.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr N £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays should pay Mr N £200 unless it has already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman