DRN-1594365
 
The complaint
 Ms S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Ms S took out a mortgage with Santander in October 1991and at the same time purchased a 
PPI policy which was intended to cover the repayments on her mortgage. She paid for the 
PPI by monthly premiums.
Ms S has complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Santander doesnt agree. 
Santander also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on 
the premiums and offered Ms S compensation of £7.72. It said Ms S would need to accept 
the offer in full and final settlement before it would make the payment.
Ms S wasnt happy with Santanders response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold but said Santander 
should update the compensatory interest on the excess commission compensation. 
Ms S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Ms S has told us that at the time the PPI was sold to her she was not advised that the PPI 
was not mandatory so she thought she had to have it. Also, she was not given full 
information about the PPI before taking it out. She recalls it was sold to her in a meeting. 
Because of the time since the sale took place Santander do not have any of the actual 
documents completed at the point of sale. The sale took place in a branch and Santander 
says its standard processes for the mortgage and PPI would have been followed. It has 
provided copies of the documents in use at the time for the applications.
I cannot be certain exactly what was said to Ms S at the time of sale. I do know, and can see 
from the documents provided, that separate forms were completed to apply for the mortgage 
and the PPI policy. On the PPI policy Ms S signed a declaration that started by saying I wish to apply for the 
Paymentcare [PPI] . She also would have signed a separate direct debit mandate as the 
cost of the policy was paid for separately to her mortgage by monthly premiums.
I think looking at the documents Ms S signed to apply for the PPI she should have been 
aware she had a choice in taking out the PPI and knew it was separate to her mortgage. She 
should also have received additional documentation indicating the PPI could be cancelled, 
and she could have done this at any time if she hadnt wanted the PPI. 
I also note Ms S says she wasnt given full information about the policy. The cost and 
benefits were indicated on the application form. So again she should have been aware of 
this when she signed the form. 
I cannot be certain what information was given to Ms S about the terms and conditions that 
applied to the policy. But looking at Ms Ss circumstances at the time she took out the PPI 
I think she was eligible to take out the policy. And it doesnt look like she was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So I think the PPI would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong.
Ms Ss employer would have paid sick pay if she was unwell. She has said this was for at 
least12 months.  But the PPI wouldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 
36 months. This would have allowed Ms S to use her sick pay for other household expenses 
at what could have been a difficult time. 
I also note that Ms S says she had some savings which she could have used to pay her 
mortgage if unable to work. Again, any savings could have been used for other expenses 
and may have been essential if Ms S was not working.
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI at the time - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. 
From the information Ive seen it also looks like the PPI was affordable. So taking everything 
into account, even if the information provided at the time was not as clear and full as it 
couldve been, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Ms S off taking 
out the cover.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Santander. I think at the time Ms S was aware 
she had a choice whether to take it out and she thought it would be useful to her.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by Santander. Santander has indicated that it has 
calculated £7.72 was due to be refunded to Ms S as at 18 July 2019.
Businesses only have to refund any excess commission and profit share. That is amounts 
paid for commission and profit share that are in excess of 50% of the monthly premium for 
any time when this may have occurred. The commission and profit share rate is not fixed 
and can vary at different times, so can be under 50% for much of the time, but occasionally 
go over  this amount. 
In Ms S case this excess commission was just a very small amount. Santander has also 
calculated 8% simple interest on this excess commission paid to July 2019. The simple 
interest is to compensate Ms S for being out of pocket. Santander indicated in its offer letter this commission compensation would only be paid on 
receipt of an acceptance by Ms S in full and final settlement. Ms S did not return that as she 
was unhappy with what Santander had said and so brought her complaint to this service. 
As Ms S remains out of pocket for the PPI cost Santander should update the compensatory 
interest to the date of final payment after issue of this decision. Ms S is still entitled to 
receive this compensation even though she didnt accept within six months of the offer. She 
had every right to bring her complaint this service and the compensation needs updating, 
although it will only be a very small increase.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Ms S by Santander 
UK Plc and Im not upholding the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. 
But Santander UK Plc should still now pay the compensation due for the excess 
commission, updating the compensatory interest to the date of final payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman