DRN-3578804
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality Health Limited hasnt fully settled a claim he made on a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has held a private medical insurance policy since November 2012. The policy renews 
in November of each year.
In April 2019, Mr S called Vitality to pre-authorise hydrocele surgery, which would be carried 
out over two operations. Vitality told Mr S hed need to call back with the surgery procedure 
code. Mr S didnt call back with the procedure code. He underwent the first part of the 
surgery in August 2019 and paid £2715 for the procedure, with the intention of claiming the 
cost back from Vitality.
Due to some delays caused by Mr S initial recovery, the Christmas break and the disruption 
caused by Covid-19, Mr S wasnt able to undergo the second part of the surgery until 
September 2020. Again, he paid £2715 for the operation. And in November 2020, Mr S 
made a claim on his private medical insurance policy for the cost of both operations.
Vitality settled the cost of Mr S second surgery, less the policy excess of £1000. However, it 
turned down the cost of the first surgery. Thats because it said the policy terms stated that it 
wouldnt pay claims if an invoice was submitted more than six months after treatment had 
taken place. In this case, Mr S first treatment had taken more over a year before he sent 
Vitality the invoice.
Mr S was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that invoices needed to be submitted within six months of treatment taking 
place. She also considered that if Mr S had called Vitality back with the procedure code itd 
asked for, then it was likely it wouldve settled the first claim with the hospital directly. This in 
turn wouldve affected Mr S renewal premium at the November 2019 renewal, in line with 
the contract terms. 
So she asked Vitality to calculate what Mr S renewal premiums wouldve been since 2019 
had his first treatment been paid for ahead of the November 2019 renewal. Based on the 
information Vitality provided and the excess Mr S wouldve paid, our investigator was 
satisfied that Mr S wouldve paid out more in premiums between the 2019 and 2021 
renewals than the first surgery had cost him. On this basis, the investigator didnt think Mr S 
had lost out financially.
Mr S disagreed. He thought the policy excess would only have applied to one of the 
operations, given the bilateral nature of the surgery. And he thought the recalculated 
premiums Vitality had provided were preposterous and not realistic. He felt the premiums 
were designed to claw back the monies Vitality wouldve spent on the claim and that it would 
continue to recoup the claim over and over again.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think Vitality has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr S policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Vitality handled 
his claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S 
contract with Vitality. Page 31 explains How to arrange treatment. This section states that 
policyholders should contact Vitality to authorise their treatment and includes the following 
terms:
Paying for treatment
We have arrangements in place with the hospitals on our lists that enable them to bill us 
direct for eligible treatment. Where this is the case, we will pay the hospital or person who 
provided your treatment directly.
If you do receive any invoices for treatment covered under this plan then these should 
be sent to us within six months of your treatment to be eligible for payment, unless 
there is a good reason why you can't do this
If you have already paid for your treatment, then you will need to provide us with an itemised 
receipted invoice and we will then reimburse you for any eligible costs, once the treatment 
has taken place. If you do not obtain authorisation from us for your treatment before it takes 
place, we will only pay you the amount we would have paid the provider directly had we 
authorised the claim in advance (pre-authorisation is not required for claims under the 
Optical, Dental and Audiological Cover option).
If you do not submit your invoices within six months of the treatment taking place, we 
will be unable to reimburse you for your treatment. (Emphasis added.)
Its common ground that Mr S called Vitality in April 2019 to request pre-authorisation of the 
surgery he needed. But it appears that he was told that hed need to call back with the 
procedure code and that he didnt do so or get back in touch with Vitality until months after 
hed undergone surgery. 
I think Vitality has clearly set out that if invoices arent submitted within six months of 
treatment taking place, then claims for that treatment wont be paid. By his own account, Mr 
S didnt claim for the first surgery until November 2020  around fifteen months after it had 
taken place. In my view then, Vitality acted reasonably in concluding that Mr S first claim 
wasnt covered by the policy terms and conditions. And I dont find this term to be particularly 
unusual or unfair.
Like the investigator, I also think that had Mr S called back ahead of the August 2019 
surgery with the surgery procedure code, its possible that Vitality wouldve been able to pay 
the hospital directly for the surgical costs, less Mr S policy excess of £1000. And I too think this transaction wouldve likely taken place before Mr S policy renewed in November 2019  
broadly three and half months later. I appreciate Mr S feels that if the second surgery hadnt 
been delayed by Covid-19, then hed only have paid one excess for the whole procedure. 
But I dont agree. I say that because Mr S had told us that part of the delay was down to his 
recovery and the Christmas period. This would necessarily have meant that even without the 
impact of Covid-19, Mr S second operation is very unlikely to have happened before the 
new policy year began in November 2019. As the surgeries wouldve taken place across two 
policy years, I find it more likely than not that two excesses would always have been applied. 
As such, I find Vitalitys liability for the first claim wouldve been limited to £1715 (the surgical 
cost less the excess) even if it had been payable.
Our investigator asked Vitality to recalculate Mr S policy premiums as if the first claim had 
been settled before the policy renewed in November 2019. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable suggestion from the investigator. I say that because the policy states that Vitality 
will calculate renewal prices as follows:
We believe that premium changes should be fair, intuitive and transparent so, in this 
section, we have outlined how we calculate the changes to your premium at each annual 
renewal date. We call this our ABC pricing approach.
We take the following into account when determining your renewal premium;
 your Age. As it is more likely you will need to claim as you get older, your premium will rise 
each year to take account of this.
 the Base rate. This is the change in the cost of providing healthcare, taking into account 
the charges made by hospitals and other providers, as well as advances in areas such as 
medical technology and drugs.
 an adjustment for the Claims you have made, and your Vitality status. This is the part of 
your renewal price that you can control.
The increase in your renewal premium will be the sum of these three items (A + B + C).
Mr S renewal certificate includes a table which illustrates the likely impact of claims on the 
renewal price, dependent on the claim value. This states that if over £1500 is paid out, then 
Mr S policy type would be subject to a 25% claims premium rise. In my view then, Vitality 
has clearly set out how it calculates renewal premiums and the impact that claims will have 
on a policyholders renewal price.
In this case, if I accept that Vitality wouldve likely paid £1715 to the treating hospital 
following Mr S surgery in August 2019 had a procedure code been provided, then I think its 
clear that the 2019-20 renewal price wouldve been subject to a 25% claims increase. Taken 
together with the age and base rise which wouldve applied, I find the claim wouldve 
significantly increased Mr S renewal premium. This price would also necessarily have 
formed the base price at the 2020-21 renewal and wouldve consequently formed part of the 
2021-22 policy renewal price too.
Vitality has provided us with a calculation showing what it says Mr S wouldve paid for his 
policy had his claim been settled in or around August 2019. This evidence explains how the 
price wouldve been affected. Im afraid I cant share this evidence with Mr S as its 
commercially sensitive and therefore, its confidential. What I can tell Mr S though is that I 
can see that the impact on Mr S renewal premiums in 2019, 2020 and 2021 wouldve 
resulted in Mr S paying more for his private medical insurance over those years than he 
actually paid for the first surgery. While Mr S may think the recalculated renewal prices are 
disproportionate, Ive placed some weight on the confidential evidence Vitality has provided. And based on that evidence, I too am satisfied that even if Mr S claim had been paid around 
the time of his first treatment, he wouldve paid out more for the policy subsequently than he 
paid for the first surgery. This means then that even if I hadnt concluded that Vitality hadnt 
acted fairly by relying on its contract terms, I dont think Mr S has suffered any financial loss 
as a result of the claim decline in any event.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr S position, I find that Vitality has treated him 
fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman