DRN-3425412
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr B responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be 
mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection 
after the car was collected.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present 
when vehicles are collected. That was the case here, but Mr B wasnt given an opportunity to 
be present for the second inspection.
I dont think Mr B was disadvantaged by that as I think the damage to the areas identified 
was most probably visible at the time of the first inspection.
Mr B says that MBFSs second inspection wasnt what was agreed but I dont think thats the 
case. The return standard explained:
When the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out 
by trained technicians at the nominated Defleet centre.
And thats what happened.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that he was initially told there were no charges and then 
told there were some. Mr B was always liable for charges if the car was not returned in a 
good condition so, whilst I understand the frustration I cant say MBFS were wrong to apply 
charges if damage was present.
Ive already explained that the industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear 
when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the BVRLA, so Ill use 
that guidance to consider whether the charges MBFS have made are reasonable.
Alloy wheel damage
MBFS charged for damage to three alloy wheels. The BVRLA guidance says that there 
should be no rust or corrosion on alloy wheels and that scuffing up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel is acceptable. It says there should be no damage to the spokes. 
The inspectors photographs show spoke damage on each wheel, so I think the charges 
MBFS have made for refurbishment of the wheels is reasonable.
Mr B has explained that his car was covered by a three-year manufacturers warranty and 
hes suggested that the repairs to the alloys would have been completed free of charge. But 
the contract required Mr B to return the car in a good condition and not a condition in which 
repairs would still be necessary. Im not persuaded there was an agreement that Mr B could 
return the car with damage as long as that damage was covered by warranty. I think MBFS 
could fairly have expected him to have commissioned such work before handing the car 
back.
Roof contamination
The BVRLA guidance says there should be no obvious evidence of poor repair, such as  
paint contamination. I think the paint is contaminated here. Its not clear whether thats due 
to a poor repair but regardless, I think the paint surface in this area is clearly below what 
could be considered an acceptable return condition. I think the charge levied by MBFS has 
therefore been fair.
Overall, Im not persuaded that MBFS have done anything wrong here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman