DRN-3185557
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money he 
says hes lost to a fraudulent company.
Whats happened?
Mr S made several debit card payments to an online casino, which Ill refer to as B. He also 
received winnings from some of the bets he placed on Bs website. 
Mr S has now discovered that B isnt licensed to transact with consumers in the UK, and he 
believes he has been defrauded. Hes said that Halifax should have stopped him from 
making payments to B. Hes also unhappy that Halifax hasnt instigated chargebacks to 
recover his money from B after he says the bank guaranteed he would get his money back 
by this means. He says he has spent money in reliance on that advice.
Halifax has said that it wouldnt stop its customers from transacting with a merchant based 
on its licenses, and it doesnt hold any chargeback rights here because Mr S received the 
service he paid for in full.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Mr S asked for his case to be reconsidered 
by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr S has provided lots of convincing evidence showing that B was not licensed to trade in 
the UK. But the question for me to decide here is whether Halifax has done anything wrong 
that it needs to put right. Looking at everything, I dont think it has.
Its common ground that the payments Mr S made to B were authorised and consented to 
under the Payment Services Regulations. He made genuine payments to B using the debit 
card thats linked to his Halifax account. By Mr S own admission, he was not defrauded in 
the sense that someone else made the payments from his account without his knowledge or 
consent and/or he wasnt tricked into making payments to an unintended destination by a 
scammer. So, the starting point is that Halifax had an obligation to follow Mr S payment 
instructions, and Mr S is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the 
end of the story. There are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks 
before processing a payment, or in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm. I consider that Halifax 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Ive looked at Mr S bank account statements and Im not persuaded there was a reasonable 
indication of possible financial harm that I wouldve expected Halifax to pick up on. The 
payments made to B were relatively modest, made over a prolonged period of time and 
mixed with lots of other genuine transactions. They were also in line with prior account 
activity. Mr S account wasnt quickly drained of funds and winnings were being received 
back into the account. So, I dont think its reasonable to expect Halifax to have intervened in 
this instance.
But even if it had intervened, by contacting Mr S and asking him some questions about the 
payments he was making to B, I dont think this would have made a difference in the 
circumstances. Mr S was making the payments of his own volition, he held an account with 
B which he was paying money into in order to place bets, and he was receiving winnings 
back into his account from some of those bets. If Halifax had reached out to him, I think its 
likely that it wouldve been satisfied, from the information he gave, that nothing was amiss.
Ive seen that Mr S was registered for GAMSTOP when he was transacting with B. But it 
doesnt appear that Halifax was made aware of this until recently. Its possible that Halifax 
shouldve realised there might be a potential problem with gambling at some point from the 
account activity and so checked in with Mr S to see if he needed any additional support. But, 
even if it had stepped in, Im not persuaded that it would have been successful in stopping 
any further spending of this type. I say this because Mr S GAMSTOP registration, which 
was intended to prevent gambling transactions, did not have the desired effect  Mr S 
continued to gamble. And ultimately, Mr S was predominantly transacting with B using his 
own money rather than an authorised or unauthorised overdraft. So, the bank wasnt, for 
example, making lending decisions when permitting the transactions to be made (which 
tends to require somewhat closer scrutiny in order, amongst other things, to assess the 
consumers liability to repay). 
Mr S is unhappy that Halifax hasnt instigated chargebacks to try to recover his money from 
B, but banks dont have to raise chargebacks if it looks clear that the cardholder would lose. 
Here, Im satisfied thats the case. Ive looked at the card schemes chargeback reasons and 
I dont think any chargeback the bank mightve raised for Mr S in these circumstances had a 
reasonable prospect of success. Thats because Mr S seems to have got what he paid for  
the money was credited to a gambling account, he gambled it and sometimes won money 
back. So, I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong in this respect. And, from looking at 
the contemporaneous call notes that were taken when Mr S spoke to Halifax about the 
matter, I can see that Halifax agreed to look at whether a chargeback could be raised, but I 
havent seen anything to suggest that he was advised a chargeback would be successful or 
guaranteed his money would be refunded. In fact, it seems that Halifax told him there was no 
guarantee.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr S financial difficulties, as well as the distress he has 
experienced recently along with his poor state of health. I can see that he has been going 
through a very challenging time. But I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong here 
which has impacted his current situation. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
require Halifax to reimburse Mr S loss.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman