DRN-2372940
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have held him liable for several disputed 
activities that took place on his account that Mr P says he didnt carry out or authorise.
 
What happened
Below is a list of the activity on Mr Ps account that he is disputing.
Date Time Payment to / from Type of transaction Amount
12/02/2019 23:36pm Payment from loan 
provider MFaster payment in £3,500 CR
13/02/2019 11:16am Payment from loan 
provider AFaster payment in £6,000 CR
13/02/2019 12:30pm Payment to a railway 
companyVisa debit card payment £249.80 D
13/02/2019 13:38 Payment to Payee M Branch Faster Payment out £3,000 D
13/02/2019 13:43pm N/A Branch cash withdrawal £5,000 D
13/02/2019 14:06pm Payment from loan 
provider VFaster payment in £1,000 CR
13/02/2019 14:07pm Payment from Loan 
provider SFaster payment in £1,000 CR
13/02/2019 16:25pm Payment to R Visa debit card payment         
(Card present)£3,000.71 D
14/02/2019 10:35am Payment to Payee M Faster Payment out - via 
telephone banking£100 D
14/02/2019 12:06pm Payment from loan 
provider L Faster Payment in
(£1,245.97 returned 
27/03/19)£4,000 CR
14/02/2019 12:15pm Payment from loan 
provider R Faster Payment in
(£6,000 returned 19/03/19)£6,000 CR
On 12 February 2019, Mr Ps car was broken into at some point. Mr P says that he had left 
his bag, containing his wallet, in the boot of his car. Mr P says that his parents, who were 
due to travel the following morning, had also left a bag in the car. Within Mr Ps parents bag 
was an old iPad that Mr P had given to his mother. The iPad wasnt password protected and 
held some of Mr Ps banking details and other details such as his email address.
Mr P says the car was broken into overnight and the bags were stolen. Mr P didnt realise 
the car had been broken into and had gone to work the following morning. Mr P says he only 
knew the car had been broken into and the items had been stolen, when his parents text him 
while he was at work. 
In between the theft of the items from his car and Mr P reporting the fraud to HSBC on 
14 February at 11:33am, the transactions listed above happened on Mr Ps account.
Mr P says that the theft of his wallet, containing his driving licence and bank card and the 
theft of the iPad which contained some of his personal and banking details allowed the 
opportunistic thief to fraudulently apply for loans that were credited into his account. And the 
opportunistic thief was then able to withdraw the funds in branch using Mr Ps ID and make 
the transfer in branch and via telephone banking to the payee M, who he didnt know, as 
well as using his card details for other transactions. 
HSBC say Mr Ps driving licence was provided as identification in branch which enabled the 
faster payment to payee M and the cash withdrawal. HSBC says its process requires the 
branch representative to ensure the ID matches the customer. HSBC said during its 
investigation CCTV had been reviewed and it confirmed there was a true likeness to Mr P. 
However HSBC were unable to provide the footage to this service.
HSBC also say it received a call on 14 February 2019 with the caller having Mr Ps mobile 
number, date of birth, a recent transaction made and details about Mr Ps overdraft facility 
with the caller requesting the password to be sent to Mr Ps email address. HSBC were 
unsure as to how a third party would have obtained all of this information. HSBC were 
unable to provide a copy of the call recording to this service.
Overall, HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ps claim that the disputed activity was carried out 
fraudulently and held Mr P liable for the transactions.  
Mr P says that none of the disputed activity was carried out by him and the CCTV footage 
would prove that it wasnt him in branch. Mr P also says the opportunistic thief had access to 
enough of his personal details that would have enabled them to carry out the phone call to 
HSBC.
Unhappy, Mr P referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised they found it more likely than not that 
Mr P authorised the disputed activity.
As Mr P disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before I go on to explain my findings, I would like to set out what I can and cant look at 
within this final decision. 
Within this decision I can look at the disputed activity around the funds going out of Mr Ps 
account held with HSBC and whether I consider this was carried out with or without his 
knowledge and consent. But within this decision I cant look at the loans that Mr P says were 
taken out in his name fraudulently. These loans werent taken out through HSBC, they were 
taken out with different providers and paid into Mr Ps account. So should Mr P wish to 
complain about the loans that were taken out, he needs to contact each loan provider 
separately. 
Having carefully reviewed the evidence and testimony provided by both parties, it has led me 
to the same overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out, and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have to reach my findings on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) says they havent authorised an executed payment  the payment service 
provider (in this case HSBC) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mr P says he didnt consent to or authorise any of the disputed activity that occurred on his 
account as they were carried out by an unknown opportunistic thief following his car being 
broken into. HSBC considers Mr P is liable for the transactions made from his account
First, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that the disputed activity 
was authenticated and then second, I need to determine whether I think its more likely than 
not that Mr P or someone with his knowledge and consent carried out the disputed activity, 
or whether I think it was carried out without his knowledge and consent. 
 
It is clear from the evidence that Mr Ps correct card account details (and also the card itself 
on one occasion) were used. So Im satisfied that the payments, transfers and withdrawals in 
question were all authenticated by Mr P as the correct details were entered or used to 
execute the payments. 
Mr P says that the CCTV footage would prove that it wasnt him in branch and this in turn 
supports his argument that it wasnt him who carried out the disputed activity. HSBC say the 
CCTV footage in branch was reviewed at the time of its investigation and say a true likeness 
of Mr P was observed. It also says its process of checking a likeness between the customer 
and the ID that is presented, means it was satisfied it was more likely than not Mr P.However, the CCTV footage hasnt been provided to this service. So I cant say for certain 
whether there was a true likeness to Mr P. As Mr P says he had his wallet and ID stolen 
there is a possibility that someone bearing a similar resemblance to Mr P was able to carry 
out the disputed transfer to M and the cash withdrawal. I am also mindful that a copy of the 
call recording from 14 February 2019 isnt available  which Mr P says wasnt him.
But, and importantly, I dont need to make a finding on whether it was or wasnt Mr P in 
branch  or whether it was or wasnt Mr P during the call. And thats because even if it 
wasnt Mr P in branch or on the call it doesnt mean that Mr P wasnt aware of the ongoing 
disputed activity. And if I am satisfied, based on the balance of probabilities, that Mr P was 
more likely than not aware of what was happening, then it will lead me to reasonably 
conclude that Mr P must have had knowledge of what was happening, and the activity was 
therefore likely carried out with his consent. 
In short if Mr P was aware of what was going on  and did not report the activity  shows 
that the activity was most likely carried out with his consent. Because if he became aware of 
the disputed activity and it was being carried out without his consent it is reasonable to 
assume that he would have reported it at the point he first became aware.
Having carefully considered Mr Ps testimony around what happened, I dont find his version 
of events to be credible or plausible. And the evidence provided by HSBC leads me to 
reasonably conclude that it is likely Mr P was aware of what was going on. Ill explain why.
Mr P says he left his bag containing his wallet in the boot of his car overnight along with his 
parents bag containing the iPad which held some of Mr Ps personal details. But I am 
mindful that Mr P says his parents were due to travel the next day  and presumably by car, 
as they had left their bags in the car. I question why Mr P would first, leave his bags in the 
car overnight and second, go to work the next day without his wallet  if his parents were 
due to travel which would result in Mr P being without his wallet. 
I am also doubtful around the timings of what happened. The first loan was credited into 
Mr Ps account at 23:36pm on 12 February 2019. This suggests that Mr Ps car had been 
broken into and his wallet and details stolen prior to 23:36pm on 12 February 2019. With the 
opportunistic thief being able, with the details stored in the boot of the car, to take out the 
first of the loans and get it credited to Mr Ps HSBC bank account. 
Mr Ps testimony is that his parents text him the following morning after the break in, 
resulting in him contacting HSBC. Given Mr Ps car was broken into on 12 February 2019 at 
some point, and seemingly discovered the next day, would mean that Mr Ps contact to 
HSBC should have been the following morning which would be 13 February 2019. But Mr P 
contacted HSBC on 14 February 2019. 
Had the break in only been discovered on the morning of 14 February 2019, and that was in 
fact the day his parents were due to travel, then it would seem Mr P had left his bag and 
wallet in the boot of his car for two nights, the 12 and 13 February 2019 with his parents 
doing the same. But this goes against his testimony that his parents had placed their bag in 
the boot overnight as they were due to travel the next day. Mr P has provided a crime 
reference number which he says was logged when discovered the fraud. But given the 
inconsistencies surrounding what happened and when, Ive not seen enough to be 
persuaded by Mr Ps version of events. 
I also say this because HSBC has provided the online banking audit which details when 
Mr P accessed his online banking application and how  so whether through a PC or through 
mobile banking and what the entry method of security was.The online banking audit shows on 13 February 2019, Mr P logged on through his registered 
mobile device (via touch ID) in total, 21 times. The first was at 6:35am and the last log in was 
at 20:19pm. The device used to log on to the online banking was the same device that was 
used to log in on 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, and 12 February 2019. 
On 12 February 2019, Mr Ps balance, prior to the first loan being credited to his account, 
had arrears of £1,496.78. Then at 23:36pm it was credited with £3,500 which meant Mr Ps 
balance was no longer in arrears and was around £2,000 in credit.
Mr P logged on to his mobile banking through touch ID the next morning at 6:35am, 6:56am, 
7:16am, 8:36am, 10:08am, 10:56am. I find it hard to believe that Mr P wouldnt have noticed 
the change to his account balance and didnt query the incoming activity. 
The second loan (for £6,000) was credited to Mr Ps account on 13 February 2019 at 
11:16am. Mr P had already logged in multiple times by this point and Mr P further logged on 
to his mobile banking at 11:44am and 11:51am  so again I would have expected him to 
notice that his balance had further increased by £6,000.
Also, at the times the other disputed activity was happening, Mr P remained active on his 
online banking. For example, the in-branch transfer and cash withdrawal took place at 
13:38pm and 13:43pm. And Mr P had logged on to his online banking at 13:22pm and 
13:48pm. Again I would have expected Mr P to notice that his balance had changed 
considerably with the transfer and withdrawal.
I dont find it plausible that while all the disputed activity was happening on 
13 September 2019 Mr P didnt notice the activity and report the matter to HSBC, given the 
amount of times Mr P had logged into his online banking. 
Overall, the evidence leads me to conclude Mr P was aware of the ongoing disputed activity 
from his HSBC account throughout 13 September 2019. The online banking audit showing 
Mr Ps online presence multiple times throughout the day while the disputed activity was 
happening. And alongside the concerns I have around Mr Ps testimony, leads me to 
conclude that it is more likely than not that either Mr P, or somebody with his knowledge and 
consent, carried out the disputed activity. 
So I cant fairly say HSBC should refund the transfers, transactions or withdrawal that 
occurred on 13 February 2019.
I note Mr P had a concern that HSBC has said with the £4,000 loan that was credited to his 
account on 14 February 2019, £1,245.97 was returned to the loan provider by HSBC on 
27 March 2019. HSBC say this was following an indemnity request by the loan provider with 
HSBC saying that this amount was what funds remained on the account following the receipt 
of that loan. This payment does show on Mr Ps statement. Mr P may wish to liaise with the 
loan provider regarding this and what is now owed under that loan account.
Finally I also note Mr P had a concern around his account being blocked and the customer 
service provided to him at this time by HSBC. I appreciate things may not have gone 
smoothly for Mr P while the blocks were in place. But the blocks were put in place to prevent 
any further disputed activity from taking place initially, and then for HSBCs fraud team to 
investigate all the disputed activity. And the disputed activity included incoming loans, 
outgoing transfers and a withdrawal that was made in branch. I dont think HSBC acted 
unreasonably in placing the block on Mr Ps account initially and then again while it 
investigated the matter and processed the indemnity requests from the loan providers.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman