DRN-3038911
The complaint
Mr C complains  through a representative  that Old Mutual Wealth Limited havent given 
him the information thats been asked for about his investment. His representative has also 
complained about the time spent on the phone trying to get the information, and has 
questioned the linking of a financial adviser to the account.
What happened
Old Mutual have confirmed Mr Cs representative asked them for details about the 
investment in September 2020. I can see a response was sent on 5 October. Mr Cs 
representative has shown us a printed copy of the document, which has columns of numbers 
split over about four pages. The original electronic document looks to be a spreadsheet, 
showing the details that had been asked for, from 2002 to 2009.
Mr Cs representative complained a few days later, leading to Old Mutual sending further 
details out in an email on 13 October. These details were slightly different, showing details 
from 2009 to 2020. Old Mutual sent these, and a response to the complaint, as a type of 
electronic file called a PDF. 
Mr Cs representative came to us, complaining he hadnt been able to view what had been 
sent, and still hadnt received the information hed asked for. Hed said about problems hed 
had speaking to Old Mutual on the phone, and seems to have raised a new issue about a 
financial advisor whos linked to the investment.
Our investigator looked at the matter, but found Old Mutual had treated Mr C fairly. He felt 
the information that had been sent out satisfied what had been asked for. And he noted that 
the financial advisor seemed to be linked to the investment because of commission, which 
had been paid by Old Mutual from 2009 to 2016. He also commented on £150 compensation 
Old Mutual had offered to recognise the inconvenience caused for Mr Cs representative. 
Mr Cs representative said he didnt feel this was a suitable way to put things right. So the 
complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Old Mutual have done enough here to put right any issues with the 
service theyve given Mr C. Ill explain why.
Old Mutual have shown us that by 13 October, theyd given Mr Cs representative the 
information thatd been asked for. The spreadsheet and the PDF documents contain 
information about the cost of the investments made from 2002 onwards. 
The issue looks to be how Mr Cs representative has been able to handle that information 
once its been received. 
The printed copies Ive seen  albeit in blurred photographs  look to me like the 
spreadsheet has been printed in a way thats split it over multiple pages. So some effort is 
needed to figure out how those pages should be lined up, for the information to be readable. 
While perhaps an inconvenience for Mr Cs representative, Old Mutual have done enough to 
provide the information, in my opinion.
Similarly, the issue Mr Cs representative has had with opening the documents sent on 
13 October sounds like he hasnt got the software thats needed to open the PDF 
documents. The software thats needed is available  for free  online, or through smart-
phone app stores. 
As its not too difficult to access and use that software, I find its reasonable for Old Mutual to 
have sent the information out in that format. 
Ive talked about the inconvenience for Mr Cs representative, and I noted Old Mutual 
acknowledged this in their response to the complaint. But my powers extend only to directing 
a remedy for Mr C  as hes the eligible complainant here  not his representative. So Im 
not going to direct a remedy for any distress or inconvenience Mr Cs representative has felt 
in this case. 
I cant see Mr C has been directly impacted in that way here. Hes shielded from distress and 
inconvenience by his representative. 
Old Mutual did acknowledge in their complaint response that thered been a delay  just 
under a month  providing the full information to Mr Cs representative. The representative 
has talked about other investments Mr C might have made with the money, but only in 
general terms. That suggests to me he didnt have a definite plan for what he was going to 
do at the time, if there hadnt been the delay in getting the information.
As such, I dont intend to speculate that there would have been a financial loss or gain, had 
there not been a delay in this case. All impacts on Mr C seem to have been put right on 
13 October, when the full information was sent to his representative. So Im not going to 
direct Old Mutual do anything further now. 
As a final point, I can see Old Mutual have explained the linking of a financial adviser to the 
investment seems to reflect the paying of commission from 2009 to 2016. It looks to me like 
that could relate to the cost of advice given to Mr C in 2009 by the adviser. But I believe any 
complaint about that commission would more rightly sit against the adviser who was paid it, 
rather than Old Mutual, who are providing the investment services in this case. 
My final decision
Given my reasoning above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman