DRN-1558726
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly and 
unreasonably terminated her agreement when she fell into arrears. Mrs N complains that 
VWFS didnt properly deal with her complaint about this matter or respond adequately to her 
Subject Access Request (SAR). Mrs N also complains that the collection agent treated her 
unfairly.
What happened
Mr N complains on behalf of Mrs N but as the finance agreement is in the name of Mrs N I 
will refer to her throughout this decision. Mrs N entered into an agreement to lease a car in 
March 2017. The initial rental was £1852 and was to be followed by 48 further rentals of 
£511.07 which included an amount for servicing.
Mrs N didnt always make repayments in full and on time and during 2018, a number of 
default notices were issued. On 5 February 2019 a default notice was sent requiring 
payment of the arrears of £1368.91 by 24 February 2019.
Mrs N wrote to VWFS by post on the 21 February 2019 offering a proposal to repay the 
arrears in instalments in March and April. This letter was received by VWFS on the 25 
February 2019. A representative of VWFS tried to call Mrs N on the 25 February but was 
unable to reach her and an email was sent on the same day to the email address held on 
file. The email asked Mrs N to contact VWFS about the letter she had sent at her earliest 
convenience. Mrs N said she didnt regularly check that email address and didnt receive the 
message. Because VWFS hadnt been able to get hold of Mrs N it terminated the agreement 
and started the process for recovery of the car. 
Mrs N complained to VWFS that it didnt write to her following her letter dated 21 November 
2019 and it had acted unreasonably by terminating the agreement and seeking recovery of 
the car. Mrs N said that VWFS should have done more before terminating the agreement 
and the collection agents were hostile and aggressive. Mrs N made a subject access request 
(SAR) to VWFS as part of her complaint.
VWFS responded on 28 March 2019 that the agreement had been correctly terminated. Mrs 
N pursued a separate complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about 
VWFSs handling of her SAR. In response to that complaint VWFS provided additional 
information to Mrs N on 5 November 2019 about the steps it had taken when terminating the 
agreement.  
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ns complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought that VWFS hadnt done anything wrong in terminating the agreement. She thought 
that VWFS was entitled to terminate the agreement because Mrs N hadnt paid the arrears 
that were due by the deadline and VWFS wasnt required to do any more than it had in 
attempting to contact Mrs N. The investigator wasnt persuaded that the collection agents 
had acted inappropriately in the circumstances. In addition, she said that it wasnt 
unreasonable for VWFS not to answer all of the questions when responding to a complaint 
and that the SAR aspect was being dealt with by the ICO.
Mr N responded on behalf of Mrs N on 4 February 2020 and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr N produced a comprehensive response and set out why he 
disagreed with the investigators view. In this response Mr N set out six key aspects which he 
considered made VWFSs actions unfair. The Investigator responded to Mr N that this 
information didnt change her view. In his email of the 13 February 2020, Mr N also 
highlighted the particular aspects of the investigators view that he disagreed with. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to state at the outset that I can appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mrs N. 
I would like to reassure her that I have considered her complaint comprehensively and 
reviewed all of the documentation. I have taken account of all the observations and points 
raised on her behalf by Mr N. If I do not comment on a specific aspect, it is not because I 
have overlooked it, but rather I dont consider it is necessary to deal with it in order to reach 
my final decision.
Mrs N says that the decision to terminate the agreement was unfair for a number of reasons. 
I have looked at Mrs Ns operation of the account and she accepts that it was not the first 
time the account had been in arrears. Default Notices had been sent on a number of 
occasions in 2019 and Mrs N had not always made payments in full and on time. I accept 
that Mrs N had previously brought the account up to date but at the halfway point of the 
agreement Mrs N had been in arrears for a significant proportion of that time. Mrs N is 
unhappy with the term repudiate contained within the notices and says that this was not the 
case. I dont think I need to decide whether the legal definition of repudiate was met, but I do 
think there was enough information for VWFS to conclude that Mrs N was unable to keep to 
the terms of the agreement.  
In these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for VWFS to issue the default 
notice and require repayment of the arrears. Mrs N says that what happened next was 
unreasonable as VWFS didnt properly consider her proposal sent via post in her letter dated 
21 February 2019 or make enough of an effort to contact her.
I can understand why Mrs N is upset that VWFS didnt write to her. But, VWFS did try to 
telephone Mrs N on the telephone number it held for her. When it was unable to reach her 
VWFS sent an email to the email address it had on file and it was the same email address 
that Mrs N had used to contact the business in December 2018. There was no reason to 
suppose that the email would not reach her. I think that this is enough, and I cant say the 
business was wrong because it didnt send her a letter in the post.
By this point the deadline notified to Mrs N in the default notice for payment of the arrears 
had passed. Mrs N didnt telephone or email the business to check it had received her letter 
or ask the business whether it agreed to her proposal. I dont criticise Mrs N for this, but I 
dont think that its fair to say that the business should have written to Mrs N via post when it 
would have been quicker and easier for the business to contact Mrs N by telephone or email. 
I understand the point that Mrs N is making about the business pressing ahead with the 
termination when she had made a proposal to clear the arrears. But VWFS didnt have to 
accept this proposal and as Ive said above, I dont think it was VWFSs responsibility to be 
proactively trying to contact Mrs N about the proposal. I cant say that the business has done 
anything wrong by terminating the agreement in line with the terms agreed at the outset and 
after the arrears were not paid.   Mrs N has said this isnt fair because there was no reason to think that she wouldnt be able 
to make the repayments for the rest of the agreement and terminating the agreement 
exposed her to an early termination charge. Looking at the history of the repayments made, 
there were signs that Mrs N was struggling to meet the repayments and so I dont agree that 
VWFS acted unreasonably in terminating the agreement in these circumstances. I dont 
doubt that this has had significant financial consequences for Mrs N but VWFS were entitled 
to conclude that Mrs N was not keeping to her side of the agreement by making the agreed 
repayments in full and on time.
Overall, taking all of the circumstances into account I cant say that VWFS has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by terminating the agreement where there was a history of missed or late 
repayments and current arrears on the account. I dont think VWFS should have arranged to 
re-instate the agreement based on the proposal to clear the arrears. 
When Mrs N complained to VWFS she asked for specific information about the review and 
the reasoning for the termination. I can understand why she thinks that her circumstances 
werent fully considered, or her complaint wasnt properly reviewed when her questions 
werent fully answered. I can see that VWFS has now given Mrs N the answers to the 
questions she asked about the process. It appears that some of the process is automated. 
VWFS has said that no new personal data was created, and it has correctly responded to 
the ICO. I cant ask VWFS to do any more in relation to this. Given the conclusions I have 
reached above I cant say that VWFS treated Mrs N unfairly and didnt consider relevant 
circumstances or her complaint which may have led to a different decision regarding 
termination of the agreement.   
Mrs N complains that VWFSs collection agents were aggressive and threatened to report 
Mrs N to the police even though collection activity should have been on hold. I can see that 
VWFS stopped the contact from collection agents after Mrs N complained. I appreciate that 
this aspect was upsetting for Mrs N, but as the termination had been processed in 
accordance with the terms of the agreement, I cant say that VWFS was wrong or unfair to 
try and recover the car. 
I can understand why Mrs N is unhappy with VWFS and shy she thinks that it has not treated 
her fairly by terminating the agreement instead of doing more to contact her and allowing her 
to clear the arrears and keep the car. But I cant say that the termination was unfair, Mrs N 
was given an opportunity to clear the arrears on more than one occasion during the course 
of the agreement. The termination was carried out in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement Mrs N signed and she was told about the process in the notices that were sent to 
her. I dont think Mrs Ns letter of 21 February 2019 which arrived after the deadline had 
passed to bring the account up to date made the termination or subsequent attempts to 
collect the car unfair.  
    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman