DRN-2864960
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on their
behalf that the redress offered by Phoenix Life Limited  for providing unsuitable investment
advice  was unreasonable.
In short, the CMC says theyre unhappy with the redress calculation because they dont
agree that the 25-year term recommended was suitable. Theyd like the redress calculated
using a 20-year term policy and the 50/50 benchmark.
 
What happened
In my provisional decision of 7 May 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms part of 
this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not 
persuaded that the redress benchmark is reasonable in the circumstances.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and Phoenix, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Because Phoenix accepts that the recommendation was unsuitable the key issue for me to 
consider is redress, and whether or not its suitable in this case. Having done so, I dont think 
the redress benchmark proposed by Phoenix is suitable, so Im going to uphold the 
complaint.
Im mindful there are alternative ways of calculating redress and there are arguments for and 
against each of those alternatives. I dont think that theres a set method of redress in this 
case, so each case must be considered in light of its individual facts.
In this case I think the 50/50 benchmark  namely 50% FTSE WMA (formerly APCIMS) 
Stockmarket Income Index and 50% BOE Fixed rate bonds  is suitable.
I note Mr and Mrs K were assessed as being balanced risk investors, but it was out of two 
other options available  namely cautious and adventurous. Which suggests that they 
werent risk averse or high-risk investors but were willing to take some risk with a (small) 
portion of their money. I agree with the investigator that the plan wasnt unaffordable for Mr 
and Mrs K and they were in a good position to take a risk.
Whilst I appreciate the points made by the CMC about calculating redress using the 25-year 
term LTA, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think its unreasonable.
I appreciate theres no way of knowing, for certain, what Mr and Mrs K wouldve done in the 
alternative, if theyd been advised properly. However, given their financial circumstances, 
and their key objective for life cover, I dont think an LTA with a 25-year term wouldve been 
unreasonable.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not, Mr and Mrs K 
wouldve gone for a plan with a 25-year term. Just because Phoenix has in other cases used 
the retirement age of 65 to calculate redress, doesnt mean its wrong not to do so in this 
case.
I appreciate what the CMC says about Mr and Mrs Ks sons wedding  as the key basis for 
why they wouldve gone for a 20-year term  but I note its not something they mentioned at 
the time. Im aware that one of the questions on the advisers form asked about their future 
plans, specifically in relation to their childrens wedding or education, and they mentioned 
nothing even though their son (then aged three) was with them. I appreciate what the CMC 
says about Asian traditions, but I think if this was very important to Mr and Mrs K, they 
wouldve mentioned something. Im mindful the CMC says their key objective was life cover 
and CIC.
In any event, a 25-year term plan wouldve taken them Mr and Mrs Ks son to 28. Although 
the CMC hasnt raised this point, I think its unlikely that the information (about potential 
wedding plans) was incorrectly recorded or simply ignored by the adviser.
Despite what the CMC says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs K werent willing 
to take a risk with a small portion of their money, for longer, leading into retirement and 
through the initial years following retirement during which they wouldve continued to 
receive life cover.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K will be unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator, but they still dont have what they want. I realise my decision isn't what they 
want to hear. But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
Phoenix responded and after seeking clarification accepted my provisional decision. 
The CMC also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision in full. In short, it said 
that whilst it accepts the 50/50 benchmark, it doesnt think that its appropriate to take into 
account the cost of a 25-year LTA policy, which would bring Mr and Mrs Ks sons age to 
28. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Despite the response from the parties, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. In other words, Im satisfied Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision, 
and in the circumstances, Ive not been persuaded to depart from my decision to uphold the 
complaint.   
In the circumstances, I still think the 50/50 benchmark  namely 50% FTSE WMA (formerly 
APCIMS) Stockmarket Income Index and 50% BOE Fixed rate bonds  is suitable. 
And on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I also think its more likely than not, Mr and 
Mrs K wouldve gone for a plan with a 25-year term. Just because Phoenix has in other 
cases used the retirement age of 65 to calculate redress, doesnt mean its wrong not to do 
so in this case.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded by the CMCs argument 
about the length of the LTA policy. Even if I was to agree that a 20-year term LTA policy was 
suitable  which on balance I dont  Mr and Mrs Ks son would still be 25 years of age and 
seven years into adulthood. 
In the circumstances I dont think that an additional three years on an LTA policy renders my 
proposed redress unsuitable. As I said in my provisional decision, I appreciate theres no 
way of knowing, for certain, what Mr and Mrs K wouldve done in the alternative, if theyd 
been advised properly. However, given their financial circumstances, and their key objective 
for life cover, I dont think that an LTA policy with a 25-year term wouldve been unsuitable. 
Putting things right
In addition to deducting the cost of a 25-year term LTA policy, Phoenix Life Limited should 
calculate redress using the 50/50 benchmark.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
 
Phoenix Life Limited should pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman