DRN-3033344
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr M complain that MD Insurance Services Limited trading as LABC Warranty 
(LABC) havent issued the 10 year building warranty they applied for.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 and set out the background of the case as:-
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and largely not in 
dispute so Ive only summarised them here. 
In 2016 Mrs B and Mr Ms builder applied for a 10 year building warranty for a 
property he was building for them.
LABC provided a quotation and requested some additional information which was 
provided and a premium of £2383.75 was paid.
One of the requirements was that the builder sign a Self Builders Indemnity 
Agreement (SBIA). The SBIA confirms that the builder will rectify any defects that 
would lead to a claim in the first 12 months of the 10 year warranty.
Mrs B and Mr M moved into the property in December 2017. Mrs B and Mr M say 
their builder withdrew his cooperation following a dispute over the final payment. And 
the builder didnt sign the SBIA and has refused to sign it since.
In 2019 LABC provided their final site inspection report and Mrs B and Mr M 
requested that LABC issue the building warranty. 
LABC advised Mrs B and Mr M it wouldnt issue the building warranty as it hadnt 
received the signed SBIA it required. 
LABC said it would issue the warranty if an additional premium of £355.88 was paid 
to cover the initial 12 month period as the builder hadnt agreed to rectify any defects. 
Mrs B and Mr M didnt feel this was fair and say that LABC said it would cancel the 
policy and retain the premium if the additional premium wasnt paid. 
 
Our investigator didnt think LABC had acted reasonably and shouldnt have accepted the 
application without the signed SBIA. And having accepted the application it couldve done 
more to obtain the signed SBIA. Her view was that LABC should issue the warranty without 
delay and without any additional costs to Mrs B and Mr M.
And I set out my reasoning as follows:-
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, and Ill explain 
why.
This is an unfortunate situation and I can understand why, as novices with self-build 
properties Mrs B and Mr M feel LABC couldve done more to chase the builder for the signed 
SBIA. However, the builder applied for the warranty for the benefit of Mrs B and Mr M and it 
is for them, with their builder, to ensure that all the necessary actions are taken and 
conditions met to allow LABC to commence cover. 
A dispute between the builder and Mrs B and Mr M isnt something LABC have any control 
over, or indeed had any involvement in. Had LABC known at the application stage Mrs B and 
Mr Ms builder wouldnt sign the SBIA then it likely wouldnt have agreed to provide the 10 
year warranty.
Mrs B and Mr M feel that as time has progressed the risk of issues arising under the 10 year 
warranty have reduced. To a certain extent this is true, however, issues that come to light in 
later years could potentially be as a result of defects that arose in the first 12 months. And 
its reasonable for LABC to have a either a signed SBIA confirming the builder accepts 
responsibility for such defects, or an additional premium to cover the risk of not having an 
indemnity from the builder.
LABC confirms no cover is in place currently but it is willing to issue the 10 year warranty 
subject to payment of the additional premium of £355.88 and I think this is fair. There is an 
additional risk for the insurer given the builder didnt sign the indemnity agreeing to rectify 
defects in the first 12 months. LABC couldve simply advised that the conditions of the policy 
the builder applied for were not met and voided the policy from inception. Instead it has 
agreed to take on the additional risk, provided an additional payment is made to reflect this. 
In the circumstances I think thats fair.
Should Mrs B and Mr M not wish to pay the additional premium then LABC can void the 
policy from inception. And the premium paid should be returned, less the site audit fee rather 
than being retained as it suggested. But I understand that this is not something Mrs B and 
Mr M would wish to happen and that having a 10 year warranty is important to them, 
especially should they choose to sell the property.
I invited both parties to let me have their further comments.
Replies to the provisional findings
Mrs B and Mr M responded advising:- 
They felt the final outcome must be aligned with the view from our investigator rather 
than doing a U-turn and described it as a split decision.
The nub of their complaint is that LABC didnt procure the builders signature.
They disagree that it was for them, with the builder, to ensure all the necessary 
actions are taken and conditions met. And add that site inspections were also a 
condition, but those arrangements were made between the builder and LABC.
LABC should have raised the lack of signature issue in a timely manner so they had 
the opportunity to rectify the situation before the dispute with the builder.
They had no involvement in arranging the 10 year warranty, and all the arrangements 
were between the builder and LABC. And it is for LABC to manage this through to 
completion.
They feel my comment about issues arising in later years potentially being as a result 
of defects that arose in the first 12 months is tenuous, and that pin-pointing the origin 
of a problem would be very difficult to prove. And say there is now less risk to LABC.
The offer of an alternative indemnity at a cost to themselves would only be fair if they 
had prevented the SBIA from being secured, and they didnt.LABC had no further comments to those it sent in response to the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to reach a different outcome to that in my provisional 
decision. 
Mrs B and Mr M have shared their strongly held views but havent provided any evidence 
that persuades me to reach a different outcome. 
In her view email our investigator asked both parties if they agreed with her recommendation 
and explained if she couldnt resolve things then an ombudsman would make a final 
decision. And she later advised Mrs B and Mr M that LABC didnt agree and an ombudsman 
will make a final decision. This isnt a split decision, its simply that having independently 
reviewed everything Ive reached a different outcome.
As I set out in my provisional decision, this is an unfortunate situation and I can understand 
why, as novices with self-build properties Mrs B and Mr M feel LABC couldve done more to 
chase the builder for the signed SBIA. But I have to decide this case on the available 
evidence, taking account of the terms and conditions, any relevant laws and what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
I make no suggestion that Mrs B and Mr M prevented the SBIA from being signed and Mrs B 
and Mr M may well feel the risk has reduced. But it would be unreasonable to expect LABC 
to take on the additional risk of covering any issues that might arise from the first 12 months 
without a separate indemnity. And in the absence of a SBIA having a separate policy can 
potentially avoid disputes should issues arise later in the 10 year warranty.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman