DRN-1517996
 
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of Mrs M, complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) charged her a 
cancellation fee for her home emergency policy when she moved home.
What happened
Mr M dealt with the complaint for Mrs M so Ill also refer to him throughout my decision. 
While I will refer to Amtrust, Mrs M wouldve been more familiar with the brand name under 
which she took out the policy. She had her energy supply with a company operating under 
the same brand name, which is relevant to the complaint.
Mrs M had a home emergency policy with Amtrust, which included a service agreement and 
breakdown insurance. She cancelled her energy supply when she moved home and 
assumed the company would also cancel her home emergency policy.
Amtrust sent Mrs M a cancellation notice after it was unable to take the direct debit payment 
from her bank. The notice confirmed the cancellation charges and asked for payment in full.
Mr M complained to Amtrust because he didnt think it had made Mrs M aware of any 
cancellation fees when she bought the policy. He feels it mis-sold the policy to her. He also 
said that Mrs M believed she had cancelled the policy when she cancelled her energy 
supply.
Amtrust said it had provided the appropriate documentation when the policy changed the 
year before and in the subsequent renewal. The documents included confirmation of the 
cancellation fees and also gave Mrs M the option to cancel free of charge within 14 days. As 
a gesture of goodwill, Amtrust reduced the cancellation fees by half.
Mr M remained dissatisfied. He felt that Amtrust should waive the cancellation fee in full, 
especially as it hadnt taken into consideration Mrs Ms vulnerability and her lack of 
awareness that the energy company wouldnt have communicated her cancellation request 
to Amtrust.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that Amtrust had included 
information about the cancellation fees so she didnt think it was fair to say Mrs M wouldnt 
have been aware of them. She also thought that as Mrs M had used the service provided, it 
wasnt fair to say Amtrust mis-sold the cover. As the reduced cancellation fees were less 
than the cost of keeping the policy for the remainder of the year, and less than the benefit 
Mrs M had had from the work done, our investigator didnt think Mrs M had lost out.
Mr M didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M thinks Amtrust mis-sold the cover to Mrs M because it didnt bring to her attention the 
changes it made at renewal and in particular the cancellation charges. I understand that Mrs 
M had broadly the same cover for several years and at renewal Amtrust said it had changed 
products. It gave her the option to cancel within 14 days and Mrs M phoned Amtrust during 
the cancellation period to discuss the policy. We cant know what was discussed during that 
call, but it is clear that Mrs M received the documents confirming the change, spoke to 
Amtrust, and that she decided to go ahead with the policy. 
Its common for this type of policy to include a cancellation charge, often equal to the 
remaining term as it is in this case. The terms of the policy state that upon cancellation,
if you have had an Annual Service and/or an Initial Inspection completed by us. You will be 
responsible for the costs incurred in this regard.
A charge for the Breakdown Contract, which is:
if you have made a Claim, the annual cost of the Breakdown Contract; or
 
A charge for the Service Contract, which is:
a.if you have had a service completed, the annual cost of the Service Contract; or (The 
annual cost of your breakdown contract x 100) / 365
 
I can understand that Mr M might be concerned about the way the cancellation charges were 
documented, but it wouldnt be fair for me to say Amtrust didnt tell Mrs M about the charges. 
Theres no dispute that she received the updated terms, and Mrs M called to discuss the 
policy, so I think its reasonable for Amtrust to have believed she understood the product 
change. And regardless of whether the cancellation charge was discussed, its broadly the 
same product that Mrs M had for a number of years, so its more likely than not that she 
wouldve continued with the cover anyway. For these reasons I dont think Amtrust mis-sold 
the policy to Mrs M. 
Ive looked at whether Amtrust applied the cancellation charge fairly and in line with the 
terms of the policy. Mr M says the terms are confusing, especially to an elderly and 
vulnerable consumer. I agree that Amtrust couldve explained the charge more simply than it 
did, but I dont think its charged more than the terms of the policy allow. Mrs Ms policy was 
split into two parts  breakdown cover and annual service cover  each with a clear separate 
cost and spread over 12 monthly payments. Ive rounded the following figures for ease. 
The annual service charge was £80. Amtrust completed the service shortly after the policy 
renewed. Therefore Mrs M had benefitted from the full cost of the service cover, although 
there were several monthly payments remaining to the end of the term. I think its fair, and in 
line with the policy terms, for Amtrust to ask Mrs M to pay the rest of the annual service 
charge. The calculation breakdown Amtrust sent to Mrs M shows that it charged what it 
wouldve done for the remaining monthly payments.
The breakdown cover was £230. The terms of the policy state that the charge for 
cancellation is the annual cost of the breakdown contract if a claim has been made. Between renewal and the time Mrs M cancelled her direct debit, she had called Amtrust on two 
separate occasions to report a fault. Amtrust attended her home on each occasion and 
repaired the fault. Therefore, Im satisfied that she benefitted from the breakdown cover and 
it was reasonable for Amtrust to ask her to pay the remaining charges in line with the terms 
of the policy.
This brings me to my final point. Mr M expressed concern that Amtrust didnt acknowledge 
that Mrs M was vulnerable and shouldve been treated accordingly. He refers specifically to 
her expectation that Amtrust wouldve cancelled her policy after she cancelled her energy 
supply with the same brand, and the likelihood that she didnt understand the cancellation 
charge. I sympathise with Mr M and Mrs M because it can be frustrating to find that payment 
is due when its not expected. So Ive looked at whether its fair to expect Amtrust to do any 
more than it did. 
As Ive explained, Im satisfied that the full cancellation charge was in line with the terms of 
the contract so it was reasonable for Amtrust to ask Mrs M to pay it. When she called to 
complain it immediately offered to reduce the charge by half. Amtrust didnt need to make 
that offer but I can see that it did so, after identifying that she was vulnerable, in recognition 
of any confusion the cancellation mix-up with her insurance and energy companies may 
have caused her. I cant see any evidence to suggest that Amtrust treated Mrs M unfairly or 
without regard for her vulnerability. So I dont think it needed to have done any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman