DRN-3779139
The complaint
Mr S complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to prevent the loss he suffered 
when he sent money to one of their accounts as the result of a scam. 
Mr S has used a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
refer to Mr S himself and will ascribe the comments of the representative to him. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In November 2021 Mr S says he was the 
victim of a scam. He says he was tricked into making a payment believing it was to fund a 
genuine investment. On 22 November 2021 Mr S sent £20,050 from his account with 
another bank H to an account held with Wise. This was sent in two payments of £50 and 
£20,000. Initially Mr S was told by the scammer that the £20,000 had never arrived. 
Mr S reported this to H and in December 2021 he contacted Wise. Wise explained that they 
couldnt share information about the account (including what if any funds had been received) 
with him directly and recommended that he ask H to request a recall. Mr S said H had told 
him funds had been correctly credited to the account on the day they were sent. 
Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam when hed been unable to make a withdrawal 
from his investment. He complained to both H and Wise. Im aware that H refunded half of 
his loss under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model. A 
complaint was referred to our service and one of my Ombudsman colleagues issued a final 
decision in March 2023. In summary the decision directed H to pay £5 (which Wise had 
recovered but they were waiting for an indemnity from H before returning it). But the decision 
didnt support that H needed to refund the outstanding 50%. 
The complaint about Wise was considered by one of our Investigators who didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. In summary she didnt think there were any failings by Wise 
where it would be fair to ask them to provide any redress. Mr S disagreed and asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Wise correctly followed their account opening process for the account that
received money from Mr S. I dont think there was anything at that stage that would have
indicated that the account might later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam.
So, I dont think Wise could have prevented Mr S loss in relation to the opening of the
account.
I also dont think there was anything so unusual about the activity on the Wise account 
(including the arrival and spending of the payments from Mr S) where Id have expected 
Wise to have intervened and to have done more. I appreciate that £20,000 is a not 
insignificant sum and Ive considered Mr S comments on that point. But given the type of 
account and its expected and intended use, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think Wise could reasonably have been expected to have intervened. Wise have also 
confirmed that they had no other reports or notifications of scams prior to Mr S funds being 
spent. 
When Wise were first contacted it was with a concern that the money hadnt arrived (not to 
report a scam). Mr S funds were spent from the account before Wise were on notice that the 
incoming payments had been made as the result of a scam. I think Wise communicated 
appropriately with H and its not uncommon for receiving banks to request an indemnity 
before returning funds. So I cant say Wise have acted unreasonably by requesting one for 
the small sum that was later recovered. 
Im pleased that Mr S was able to recover at least some of his loss through H. And whilst Im 
naturally sympathetic to his outstanding loss, as I dont think Wise are responsible for that 
loss or a proportion of it, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to 
reimburse Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman