DRN-2549520
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In November 1998 Mrs B opened a store card account. 
A few months later, in February 1999, PPI was added to her account following a telephone 
call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 Mrs B owed on her store card and it 
protected Mrs Bs store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Mrs B mainly said she didnt remember how she applied for her store card or PPI ever being 
mentioned  she assumed PPI was added without her knowledge. 
Our adjudicator explained that Mrs B had taken out the PPI in 1999 during a phone call and 
didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicator. Mainly, Mrs B told us she had good sick pay through 
her employment as well as other ways she couldve paid her store card if she wasnt able to 
work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
Its unsurprising that Mrs B doesnt recall the phone call when AXAs records indicate it sold 
her PPI. This happened a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs B to 
remember details of a phone conversation from more than 20 years ago. This means that 
what Mrs B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to 
look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording  but I wouldnt expect it to still have call 
recordings from 1999. The fact that AXA cant now produce this isnt a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint. 
I also havent seen a copy of the call script used at the time and I dont know what AXA said 
to Mrs B when the policy was sold. 
But based on what this service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was 
to sell PPI. So it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main 
features of the policy to see if Mrs B wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out after Mrs Bs store card had already been sent to her 
some months earlier and she was able to use it without PPI, I think Mrs B wouldve been 
aware that the policy was optional. 
And looking at Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, I can see that she couldve found the 
policy useful if she had needed to claim. On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added 
to her account during the phone call when Mrs B chose to buy the policy offered after 
hearing about the benefits and deciding she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly 
repayments. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that AXA advised Mrs B to take out the PPI so 
AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for her. But it still should have provided 
Mrs B with clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
If this didnt happen, I've also thought about whether this makes any overall difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs B had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
Mrs B told us that her employer wouldve paid her 6 months' full sick pay followed by half 
pay for 6 months 
The policy paid out a benefit if Mrs B couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness and in 
the event she lost her job unexpectedly and found herself out of work.
It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding balance was 
cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work.
It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay  and in full for longer than she couldve relied on 
getting full sick pay from work. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have 
been a difficult time if Mrs B needed to claim as she mightve had extra costs if she was ill or 
disabled and she wouldve been on only half her normal pay after 6 months off work sick.   
Although shes mentioned having a car and jewellery she couldve sold, having PPI meant 
Mrs B wasnt at risk of being forced to sell valuables or her car  and perhaps when she 
mightnt have been able to get as much as she hoped for. So I cant reasonably say that 
Mrs B couldnt have benefitted from the PPI. And it was up to Mrs B to decide if the policy 
was likely to be useful for her knowing what her financial situation was at the time. 
Mrs B mentioned having savings in place  including an amount that was readily accessible 
without any penalty for taking out the money quickly. She hasnt provided any more details 
about this. 
I dont know if Mrs B wouldve always had savings to rely on given that everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. And the amount of savings shes mentioned isnt 
enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful.  
PPI offered Mrs B protection for her store card monthly repayments, whatever the balance 
on her card, in the event of unplanned and unforeseeable changes in circumstances. 
Looking at everything Mrs B told us about her financial situation at the time, I still think Mrs B 
couldve benefitted from having the policy. Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if there 
wouldve been any reason why Mrs B wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the 
main policy benefits. So, I dont think that knowing more about policy exclusions and 
limitations that didnt affect her wouldve put Mrs B off taking the policy out.  
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs B to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Mrs B had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful given the benefits it offered in her particular 
circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for 
Mrs B when she signed up to have it  so thats not a reason for me to uphold her complaint. 
And she took out PPI when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the cover. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Mrs B told us, including what 
shes said in response to the adjudicators view. But what shes said doesnt affect what 
I think about her complaint. Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information 
wouldve put Mrs B off taking out this policy, given her situation at the time. And even if AXA 
didnt give Mrs B all the information it shouldve done when it sold her the policy, I dont find 
that Mrs B is worse off as a result of anything that AXA did wrong. 
So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman