DRN-1726593
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has failed to 
support him whilst hes dealing with a serious health problem. He obtained a car using a hire 
purchase agreement with VWFS. Hes not been able to drive for several months and wants 
to end the agreement with nothing more to pay.
What happened
Mr W obtained a car in November 2017, financed through a four year hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS.
In October 2019 he experienced symptoms which led to his diagnosis. The nature of those 
symptoms means he cant drive. This was confirmed in a letter he received from the DVLA in 
March 2020.
Mr W contacted VWFS towards the end of November 2019 explaining what had happened. 
He said he wanted to end the agreement and return the car. 
VWFS set out Mr Ws options to terminate the agreement early. But told him the contract 
was legally binding and the settlement amount  and arrears  had to be paid. It asked Mr W 
for details of his income and expenditure and VWFS couldnt conclude that Mr W wasnt in a 
financial position to either continue to meet the monthly repayments or repay the sum due on 
early termination.
On 26 January 2020, Mr W returned the car, with the keys, to the supplying garage. He 
referred his complaint to us because he wanted VWFS to write off the amount he owed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
returning the car didnt end Mr Ws liability. He suggested Mr W needed to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement so that it was clear how much remained to be paid. And that, whilst 
Mr W would remain liable for the full amount, VWFS might look to reduce the shortfall. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
VWFS hasnt offered him anything over and above what a consumer in ordinary 
circumstances would have been offered. He doesnt think he has been treated fairly. 
VWFS didnt collect the car from the supplying garage and failed to contact him after 
he told it hed returned the car.
VWFS should take into account his customer loyalty and that  until he experienced 
ill health  he didnt miss any payments.
He said he would be prepared to repay the arrears.
Following his response, Mr W voluntarily terminated his agreement. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has been diagnosed with a serious condition and it is fully understandable that the 
continued communication about the car is very stressful for him at an already upsetting time. 
I can also understand why he does not want to continue to pay for a car that he cant drive. 
But, as our investigator said in his view of the complaint, the agreement sets out what a 
consumer can do in a situation like this. When Mr W contacted VWFS, I find it did properly 
explain what options were available to him.
I do think VWFS could have been more understanding of Mr Ws personal circumstances in 
its communications with him. For example, it suggested that hed chosen not to drive. 
Whereas it is evident from the DVLAs website that he would have been acting illegally if 
hed driven once he experienced symptoms in October 2019  it makes no difference that he 
didnt receive confirmation of this from the DVLA until March. And when VWFS told Mr W his 
credit file might be affected if he failed to keep up with his payments, it should have 
explained why it had to tell him this to avoid its communication sounding unsupportive.
But I dont find theres any obligation on VWFS to write off the amount Mr W owes. I say this 
because it asked him for details of his income and expenditure and concluded that Mr W 
was not in financial difficulties and could afford to either continue the monthly payments or 
repay the sum due following voluntary termination.
I appreciate continuing to make payments towards a car which Mr W has had to hand back, 
through no fault of his own, seems unfair to him. But the agreement he signed requires him 
to repay the contractual sum  whatever his circumstances.
Now that Mr W has given instructions to terminate the agreement, VWFS says it will take 
into account Mr Ws overall circumstances when seeking repayment of the amount due and 
it will consider various options to help him, for example, it could put payments on hold for a 
period of time if that helps. It says it will also consider whether it will accept a reduced 
settlement. I would remind VWFS of its obligations to treat Mr W  as a vulnerable consumer 
 sensitively.
If Mr Ws financial circumstances have changed since he completed income and expenditure 
figures in November 2019, he should provide up to date figure to VWFS so that it can assess 
his ability to repay the sum he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman