DRN-3626000
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has refused to refund him the 
amount he says he has lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
Mr W tells us he was looking for a second income and saw an advertisement online for a 
business called Tradeo (T). Mr W started to invest with a small amount and when he saw he 
was making a profit was convinced to invest more.
Mr W has told us that as part of the investment he was asked to click on a link which he did 
and over a sustained period T made withdrawals from his account and Mr T was unable to 
recover his investment.
Between 20 January 2021 and 5 March 2021 Mr W sent a total of £24,299.00 to T. 
Barclays investigated the payments Mr W had made and contacted T. T was able to show 
that Mr W had made deposits into his own T account and had traded from his account. No 
withdrawals had been made from the account.
Barclays said Mr W had lost the money he had invested due to a bad investment but this 
was not a scam and therefore could not be treated as fraud. As the payments Mr W had 
made had also appeared in his own account with T it was unable to explore the option of a 
chargeback.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but thought the outcome reached by Barclays 
was fair, so he didnt ask Barclays to do anything to resolve Mr Ws complaint. As Mr W 
didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr W made to Tradeo.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
The service provided by T would have been to transfer Mr Ws payments onto the Tradeo 
platform which would allow him to make trades. Therefore, T provided the service that was 
requested.
The fact that the funds Mr W deposited were later lost in various trades doesnt give rise to a 
valid chargeback claim against T. As T provided the requested service to Mr W any 
chargeback attempt would fail. 
Mr W has accepted he authorised the payments he made to T, so the starting point here is 
that Mr W is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do 
have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Barclays should have stepped in to prevent the payments Mr 
W was making.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing
returns or losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud
Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does
not always amount to fraud.
When considering this for Mr Ws case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent or unauthorised.
Upon checking both, its my understanding that T had no adverse information reported about 
them at the time.
Without there being a scam to protect against, theres no obligation for Barclays to intervene
with Mr Ws authorised payment instructions. Its not expected to protect against bad
bargains, nor to give investment advice.
If Barclays had intervened and sufficiently questioned Mr W about these payments, its likely
this would have revealed that T were properly regulated to operate in the UK and were listed
on the FCA register. I think this would reasonably have alleviated any fraud concerns.
With the above in mind, I dont think Barclays is responsible for any of Mr Ws loss.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman