DRN-4218978
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs M applied for a credit card. HSBC approved the application and gave Mrs M a card 
which had a 0% offer on balance transfers for a year.
Mrs M made a balance transfer of £4500 in February 2022.
Mrs M attempted to make a second balance transfer of £400. HSBC debited her credit card 
account, but the funds never reached the intended destination.
Mrs M says she only found out after opening the account that she wasnt able to make 
payments using her HSBC online account. She says this led to a default being registered. 
Mrs M says that when the direct debit from her HSBC account was set up, she was never 
informed what her monthly payments should be.
Mrs M complained that HSBC had lent to her irresponsibly. She also complained about the 
service issues shed experienced.
HSBC didnt uphold the irresponsible lending complaint. It said it had carried out 
proportionate checks before lending to Mrs M. In relation to the service issues HSBC said it 
had recalled the £400 and credited this back to Mrs M. HSBC said that information about 
how to make payments to the account was set out on the monthly statements.
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint about irresponsible lending. They said that 
HSBC had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and that the lending decision 
was fair. In relation to the service issues, the investigator said that the information showed 
that Mrs M had been making repayments since April 2022, and that the default had been 
registered after November 2022, so it didnt appear that the default was due to Mrs Ms lack 
of knowledge about payment methods, but instead was due to Mrs M not making sufficient 
payments. In relation to the £400 balance transfer, the investigator said that HSBC shouldve 
picked up on the payment not reaching its intended destination sooner and said that HSBC 
should pay compensation for this.
HSBC accepted the investigators view. Mrs M didnt confirm whether she accepted the view 
or not, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, HSBC needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mrs M could sustainably repay what was being lent to her.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent. The total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks that HSBC carried out. Mrs M declared annual income of £32,000 
in her application. HSBC carried out a credit check which showed that Mrs M had unsecured 
debt of around £15,400. The credit search showed no adverse information.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by HSBC were reasonable and 
proportionate. I also think the lending decision was fair. I say this because theres nothing in 
the information gathered which suggested that the credit wasnt affordable for Mrs M, or that 
she was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the credit.
For these reasons, Im unable to say that HSBC lent irresponsibly to Mrs M.
Service issues
Mrs M has told this service that she only found out after shed opened the account that she 
wouldnt be able to make payments using her online account. Shes also said that she was 
never informed what her monthly payments would be.
Ive reviewed the credit card statements. These show that Mrs M had been making 
payments since April 2022. So whilst Ive got no reason to doubt what Mrs M says about 
being unable to use her online account to make payments, its clear that she had found an 
alternative way to make payments soon after the account was opened.
I can see that there was a default registered in or around November 2022. This was because 
Mrs Ms account had fallen into arrears. However, Im not persuaded that the reason for the 
arrears was because of Mrs M not being aware of how she could make payments. As Ive 
said above, Mrs M was aware of how to make payments in April 2022. Looking at the credit 
card statements, I can see that the arrears accrued because Mrs M wasnt making sufficient 
monthly payments. I appreciate that Mrs M has said that she wasnt told what her monthly 
payments should be, however, the minimum monthly payment is clearly stated on the 
monthly statements. So Im unable to say that HSBC did anything wrong here.
The statements show that in August 2922 Mrs M was 6 months in arrears. Im of the view 
that the default registered in November 2022 should be backdated to August 2022.
In relation to the £400 balance transfer which failed to reach its intended destination, HSBC 
has explained that this was due to the retailer changing its account details. It isnt clear 
exactly when HSBC became aware that there was a problem with the retailers account. 
However, it was several months before HSBC recalled the payment. In the circumstances, I 
think HSBC shouldve picked up on this problem sooner. I agree with the investigator that 
HSBC should pay Mrs M some compensation for this.
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC should:
Backdate the default to 8 August 2022Pay Mrs M compensation of £100
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman