DRN-3017016
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given to transfer his benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension with ReAssure Limited (ReAssure). He 
says the risks involved were not explained or appropriate. 
Mr C is being represented by a third party.
What happened
Mr C had an occupational pension that he had accrued working for an employer between 
March 1977 and October 1983. 
In 1985 Mr C discussed transferring the benefits accrued under this occupational scheme to 
a personal pension with Guardian Assurance plc. He says he was advised to take out the 
new personal pension by Guardian. I understand ReAssure has now taken over 
responsibility for complaints relating to this policy. So, to keep things simple, Ill generally 
refer to ReAssure in my decision.
There arent any projections or valuations available of the total value of Mr Cs OPS benefits 
in 1985. So, it isnt clear what the total benefits at retirement were scheduled to be under his 
existing policy. Mr Cs OPS included a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP), that would be 
paid to him on reaching age 65  and details of that are available. His existing pension 
scheme confirmed, at the time of the transfer in 1985, that the GMP stood at £5.64 per week 
(or £293.28 per annum). This GMP would be revalued annually until age 65, with a 
revaluation rate of 5%. The transfer value of his existing pension, in 1985, was £2,171.16.
Mr C ultimately went ahead with the transfer in 1985, he says on the recommendation of 
ReAssure. He was 42 at the time the new policy was taken.
The documents available refer to the personal pension Mr C transferred to as a buyout plan 
or buyout policy. These confirmed that the undertaking in the existing scheme - to provide a 
GMP - would be transferred to the new plan. Meaning it would provide the same guarantee 
in respect of the GMP. The policy documents Ive seen said the GMP under the new policy 
would be £1,129.80 when Mr C reached normal retirement age (65).
Mr C took benefits under the new policy around September 2008, at age 65. The options 
pack he received at the time said the value of his pension at that stage was £24,019.40. He 
took a tax-free lump sum of just over £6,000 and an annuity pension paying a fixed amount 
of £1,845.96 per annum for the remainder of his lifetime. 
In November 2020, Mr Cs representatives complained to ReAssure on his behalf. They said 
Mr C should not have been advised to transfer. They said he was told the transfer would 
give him a larger pension at retirement, but the risks werent explained. And they said Mr C 
should not have been exposed to the risks involved in taking a pension linked to the stock 
market instead of a guaranteed, inflation protected pension. The representatives said Mr C 
had little knowledge or experience of pensions and investments at the time he was advised 
to transfer.
ReAssure said it hadnt seen any evidence to suggest the recommendation to transfer 
wasnt appropriate. It said that the new pension was a with profits policy and not unit linked, 
so wasnt subject to the degree of risk the representative had said.  And it also reiterated that 
it provided a GMP, as the original policy had. So overall it didnt feel it was wrong to 
recommend the transfer.
Mr Cs representatives asked our service to consider the complaint. One of our Investigators 
looked into matters. She noted the sale of the new pension policy took place before the 
implementation of any relevant regulations. So, the requirements on ReAssure were limited, 
and the sale was not covered by the pension review. She said the main point Mr Cs 
representatives had made was about risk. But she noted that Mr C had retained valuable 
guarantees (GMP and spouses pension) following the transfer. Which were clearly 
explained in the policy information. And the policy was a with profits policy, so was invested 
in a lower risk way. And, given she couldnt conclude from the information still available that 
the policy had been misrepresented, she didnt think ReAssure had acted incorrectly.
Mr Cs representative asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, on his 
behalf. They said they believed the income he now receives is lower than he wouldve 
received from the OPS and there was no evidence this risk had been explained to Mr C.
As Mr C and his representatives didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The events complained about took place before The Financial Services Act 1986 came into 
effect  pre-regulation  and before any other relevant guidelines or regulations in relation to 
pension transfers were established. So, when dealing with Mr C, ReAssure was only bound 
by common law requirements. These are what I must consider when thinking about the 
events being complained about. 
There is limited information available from the point the buyout plan was taken out. And I 
think this isnt surprising. The complaint was made roughly 35 years after the policy 
commenced. I wouldnt have necessarily expected the business to retain full records for that 
length of time. And anyway, given this all took place pre-regulation, there were no formal 
requirements in terms of the information businesses needed to record and retain. 
ReAssure wasnt required by regulation to give Mr C advice. But if it did, the requirement 
under common law when giving advice was to do so with reasonable skill and care. When 
providing information, it had a duty not to misrepresent this. And, more generally, it had to 
not make any negligent mis-statements. 
Ive thought about Mr Cs circumstances at the time. Information is limited but we know he 
was 42 years old and widowed. The OPS that he was reviewing had a transfer value of 
£2,171.16, so was relatively modest in size. Although it included a GMP, payable when he 
reached aged 65.The buyout policy recommended included the commitment to match the GMP. So that 
guarantee, an important part of the existing policy, was retained and wasnt lost by 
transferring. This was made clear in the policy summary and explained correctly. And this 
feature of the plan meant the risk involved in the transfer, was lessened.
Mr Cs representative has argued strongly he shouldnt have been advised to take any risks 
or expose his pension to risks associated with the stock market. But, at the time, Mr C had 
over 20 years until he was due to retire. Which meant he had time to contribute to other 
retirement provisions. So, I dont think, on balance, that Mr C had no capacity to take any 
risks at all. And, as ReAssure and our Investigator pointed out, the buyout plan was a with 
profits policy. Not a unit linked investment. And so, the risk that was associated with the 
policy was lower, which I dont think was inappropriate for Mr C at the time. 
I think there was also a reasonable prospect of growing the value of the buyout plan, in the 
time until he retired, at the point it was taken out. And from what Ive seen, the information 
given about this was not misleading. The policy summary explained that it attracted a bonus 
pension, so shared in the profits, where there were any, earned on the Guardian Assurance 
life fund, with this bonus in turn becoming guaranteed. 
And this has proven to be the case  that the pension value grew. The pension increased in 
value to over £24,000 by the time Mr C took benefits from it at age 65. This allowed Mr C to 
take a tax free cash sum, which itself was significantly greater than the transfer value of his 
existing pension at the time the new plan was taken out, and a stable, guaranteed income, in 
excess of the GMP. 
With this in mind, based on the limited information available, I dont think the plan ReAssure 
recommended seems to have been inappropriate for Mr C. So, I cant say it hasnt exercised 
reasonable skill and care when providing advice.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that ReAssure made any negligent mis-statements.
Mr Cs representatives said when they initially complained that ReAssure said the buyout 
plan would provide a larger pension than his existing policy. And they in fact think Mr C is 
receiving a lower income that he wouldve under the OPS. But as Ive said, information from 
the time is limited. And there is no evidence of what the full benefits under the OPS at 
retirement wouldve been  only what the GMP was and how much it was scheduled to 
revalue by. So, I havent seen anything to support Mr Cs representatives statement that he 
is receiving less And, in what Ive seen, there is no evidence of such a guarantee about the 
eventual benefits being made by ReAssure. The policy description is clear that the GMP will 
be matched. But this appears to be the only direct comparison referenced and no 
guarantees around performance were provided. 
I havent seen a copy of any projections that mightve been produced at the time as they are 
no longer available, which again I dont find unreasonable. But ReAssure has provided a 
copy of a re-projection provided in 1993. This is clear that projections are not guaranteed. 
And on balance I think its likely ReAssure made the same clear at the time the policy was 
taken out. 
And I also havent seen anything to suggest that ReAssure misrepresented any of the 
information it provided. Again, the sample is limited. But the details in the policy summary 
seem to accurately reflect the information included about the existing scheme, as provided 
by the scheme itself. And it seems to accurately reflect how the buyout plan would function, 
including the options available at retirement  as these have subsequently been made 
available and utilised by Mr C. Mr Cs representatives have said that Mr C was not made aware of any risks, including in 
relation to the eventual retirement benefits and how these may differ. But ReAssure wasnt 
required or obligated to provide a direct comparison. And I think the information that was 
included appears to have been accurate. And as Ive explained, Im satisfied on balance that 
ReAssure likely made it clear that projections of performance were not guaranteed.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the advice given 
by ReAssure in 1985 was inappropriate given the relevant requirements of ReAssure at the 
time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman