DRN-2077299
The complaint
Mrs G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where a complaint is about a claim 
under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that 
was responsible for dealing with that claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance company, but we dont name any other party. 
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its 
associated plumbing and drainage company and others insofar as I hold that insurance 
company responsible for their actions.
Mrs G has told us that she lives with a disability and her husband has a serious health issue. 
She had a British Gas policy that covered central heating, plumbing and drainage and home 
electrics.
On 3 February 2020 Mrs G saw water flowing down her outside wall and bouncing on to the 
wooden-framed kitchen window below. So she called British Gas for help.
She complained about delay and other poor service. Mrs G brought her complaint to us in 
early March 2020.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
British Gas had demonstrated any reason beyond its control for the delay to complete the 
repair. She recommended that British Gas should compensate Mrs G £100.00 in addition to 
the £20.00 already paid for trouble and upset.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
It didnt cause the leak.
The repair required a replacement cylinder, that was a special-order part. Therefore, 
it had to wait for the part to become available. This was out of its control and falls 
within reasonable timescales.
It has no record of confirmation of appointments for 12 and 18 February 2020.
It is unable to agree to an additional £100.00 but would like to offer an additional 
£50.00 making a total gesture of goodwill of £70.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central heating cover and the plumbing and drainage cover overlapped in that each 
covered the hot water cylinder.
The policy included the following term:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit."
In assessing what is a reasonable time, I take into account various factors including the 
nature of the emergency, the work required, the likely consequences with the passage of 
time, and any health issues.
Mrs G contacted British Gas on 3 February 2020. As British Gas hasnt provided call 
recordings, I accept Mrs Gs statement that she mentioned her disability and her husbands 
heath issue. British Gas visited the same day. British Gas ordered a replacement cylinder.
On 5 February 2020 British Gas rang to arrange fitting. As British Gas hasnt provided call 
recordings, I accept Mrs Gs statement that she agreed 12 February 2020. But British Gas 
didnt visit on 12 February 2020 and I dont doubt Mrs G was upset. 
British Gas visited the next day  twice. On the first visit it brought an unsuitable replacement 
cylinder. It partly drained the old cylinder. But that didnt stop water overflowing onto the 
window. So there was a second visit to extend the overflow pipe further outside. British Gas 
booked another appointment for 19 February 2020.
Mrs G called British Gas on 13 February 2020 and the appointment was brought forward to 
18 February 2020. Mrs G felt the call-handler had been rude, and she'd been cut off. 
British Gas contacted Mrs G on 17 February 2020. It offered £20.00 compensation for the 
call on 13 February and Mrs G accepted that.
But there was further delay. British Gas cancelled the appointment on 18 February due to 
illness. On 19 February 2020 British Gas didnt replace the cylinder. Instead it replaced a 
valve inside the cylinder and took away the extended overflow pipe. 
The leak continued and again affected the kitchen window until the overflow was again 
extended.
I think Mrs G had to chase British Gas on 21 February 2020 to find out a visit was arranged 
for 24 February 2020.
On that day British Gas completed the replacement. So it had taken three weeks. I dont find 
that was a reasonable time. And I dont find that it was impossible to do the repair in a 
reasonable time.
In the meantime, Mrs G and her husband had low pressure and limited use of hot water 
while it leaked outside. And British Gas hadnt communicated properly.
So I find that British Gas unfairly caused Mrs G distress and inconvenience. Putting things right
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gs to pay Mrs G  in addition to the 
£20.00 already paid  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs G  in addition to the £20.00 already paid  a 
further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman