DRN-1052646
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs C between August 
2016 and April 2018. The loan amounts were between £200 and £300 to be repaid over 
three or six months in monthly instalments. The first three loans were taken with only short 
breaks between repayment and a new loan. I think there were no significant breaks in the 
lending. Mrs C said she struggled to repay her loans. I can see that she took ten months to 
clear her final six month loan. Mrs C repaid all her loans.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Cs complaint in part and thought loans three and four shouldnt 
have been given. Mr Lender disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mrs C for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mrs C said she earned about £960 a month. Her monthly outgoings were 
about £640 leaving her about £320 a month disposable income to meet her highest 
expected monthly repayment of £167.86. Mrs C told Mr Lender that her outgoings included 
other short-term loans that totalled at least £200 a month.
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Mrs C provided or the information 
Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mrs C was saying.  So I cant say it was wrong for Mr Lender to provide loans 
one and two to Mrs C. 
But I think Mr Lender should have made better checks of Mrs Cs finances by loan three. 
This was because this by this time Mrs Cs had been borrowing continuously for eight 
months and the amounts borrowed didnt significantly decrease.  Mrs Cs income was 
relatively small and she had told Mr Lender she had other short-term borrowing. 
I think Mr Lender could, for example, have verified what Mrs C had told it about her finances, 
including her other short-term borrowing. Mr Lender said that the four month break between 
loans three and four was significant and therefore loan four should be treated as a new chain 
of borrowing with the checks that were appropriate. But I disagree. I think four months isnt 
long enough a break for Mr Lender to consider that Mrs Cs finances would have significantly 
changed. So I think Mr Lenders affordability checks for loans three and four werent 
sufficient or proportionate. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan three would most likely have 
shown that Mrs C was having problems managing her money:
Mrs C had told Mr Lender on all her loan applications that she had outstanding short-
term loans that were significant compared to her income;
Her credit file showed an extensive history of short-term borrowing over a significant 
period;
Mrs C had a default registered against a loan five months before she asked for loan 
three. So I think that if Mr Lender had made better checks it should have reasonably known that 
Mrs C would be unable to repay loan three, or any subsequent loans. And so I think it was 
wrong to provide loans three and four. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans three and four and I think Mr Lender should put 
things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loans three and four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans three and four from Mrs Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I 
require PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to pay Mrs C compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman