DRN-2649628
The complaint
Ms A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim she made on a pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms A insures her dog, C, with a policy provided by Red Sands. The circumstances of this 
complain are well known to both parties but Ill briefly summarise these below.
Ms A made a claim on the policy for treatment received by C from a vet for a cruciate 
ligament injury. C had previously received treatment for patellar luxation.
Red Sands declined cover for the claim. It said that the cruciate ligament injury was 
linked to the previous patellar luxation and that the policy didnt cover this.
When Red Sands rejected her complaint, Ms A referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that Red Sands hadnt acted fairly when it declined the 
claim.
Red Sands disagreed with this. It said that the cruciate ligament injury was directly 
linked to the previous patellar luxation. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that its unfair for Red Sands to rely on the 
exclusion for patellar luxation when it declined the claim. This is because:
The exclusion referred to says theres no cover on all claims with respect to both 
patellas with effect from 15 August 2017.
This could be interpreted as meaning that the exclusion only applies to issues with 
the patellas. The exclusion doesnt refer to the whole knee joint or the cruciate 
ligaments.
Red Sands position appears to be that this exclusion extends to cover all matters 
linked to the patella.
If thats the case, Red Sands needs to be able to directly link the cruciate ligament 
injury to the patellar luxation if it is to be able to fairly decline cover for the claim.
Red Sands vet describes a mechanism by which patellar luxation can cause damage 
to the cruciate ligaments. But this isnt based on an assessment of C, and there isnt 
evidence to support that this mechanism of injury is how C has sustained the 
cruciate ligament injury.
Ms As vet, who examined and treated C, considers that the cruciate ligament injury 
is separate to the patellar luxation. C has received further treatment for the patellar 
issues and Ms A doesnt seek to claim for these costs, as she accepts they wont be 
covered by the policy.
Im not satisfied that Red Sands has been able to demonstrate that its more likely 
than not that Cs cruciate ligament injury is linked to the previous patellar luxation. 
My final decision
 Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, I direct Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Consider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
In the event that a settlement is made to Ms A, it should add interest at 8% simple 
per year from the date Ms A paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman