DRN-3032936
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained about the interest rate charged on a mortgage they held with 
Landmark Mortgages Limited. They say when they took out the mortgage in 2006 the 
variable rate they would move to after the fixed rate period ended was 2.09% above the 
Bank of England base rate (base rate) but when their fixed rate ended in 2011 the variable 
rate was 4.28% above the base rate.
Any reference to Landmark in this decision should be taken to mean the previous lender 
where appropriate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out this mortgage in 2006. It was on a fixed interest rate until 31 May 
2011, at which point it moved to a variable rate which was 0.01% below the standard 
variable rate (SVR). The mortgage remained on that variable rate until Mr and Mrs F repaid 
it in February 2019.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Landmark on 18 February 2020.
Landmark said the rates it had applied to Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage was in line with the terms 
and conditions of their account. It also said it felt its SVR was in line with other companies in 
the mortgage market.
Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to our service, and when they did so Landmark said it 
wouldnt give its consent for us to consider anything that had happened more than six years 
before the complaint was made. It said those matters had been complained about too late 
under our rules.
I issued a decision in August 2021 explaining which parts of this complaint we can look at. In 
that I said we can only consider this complaint in respect of the interest charged from 
19 February 2014 onwards because Mr and Mrs F hadnt complained within the time limits 
allowed for anything that happened before then.
Our investigator looked at what had happened since 19 February 2014. She said between 
then and when Mr and Mrs F repaid their mortgage in February 2019 the differential between 
base rate and Mr and Mrs Fs variable rate had remained the same.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with her findings and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr and Mrs F. Its the nature 
of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings 
are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs F entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained in the paperwork at the time. I cant consider 
the advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party acting on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs F.
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods:
a fixed rate of 6.19% until 1 June 2011
followed by
a variable rate which is guaranteed to be below Northern Rock Standard Variable Rate, 
which is currently 6.59%, for the remainder of the term of the mortgage. 
If Northern Rock's Standard variable rate changes, we will review the interest rate 
applicable to your mortgage on the first working day of the following month. We will then 
notify you in writing of your new interest rate and payment, which will take effect from 
the first day of the month following the review. We will follow this procedure whether 
Northern Rock's Standard Variable Rate Rate rises or falls. Please note that the 
payments illustrated for this period of the mortgage in Section 6 of this document are 
based on Northern Rock's current Standard Variable Rate.
And;
On expiry of the Special Rate Period the rate will be set at a rate guaranteed to be below 
our prevailing Standard Variable Rate set by us from time to time for existing Northern 
Rock borrowers (the Guaranteed Rate). We will review the Guaranteed Rate on the 1st of 
each month following any change in the Standard Variable Rate. Should the Standard 
Variable Rate change and we are required to change the rate as a result of the 
guarantee, we will amend the rate of interest payable by you on the 1st day of the 
following month or such other day as we may reasonably determine. 
At anytime during the Rate Periods our prevailing Standard Variable Rate may be lower 
than the product you have chosen. In such circumstances we are under no obligation to 
reduce the Interest Rate you pay.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage say:
"Standard Variable Rate" means such rate as we from time to time decide to set as the 
base from which to calculate Interest on our variable rate mortgage loans (disregarding 
the restrictions on what we can charge under condition 7 or the Offer). The current 
Standard Variable Rate which applies to your Loan is set out in the Offer. We may 
change this rate from time to time under condition 7 or the Offer. If we transfer or dispose 
of the Offer, the person to whom we make the transfer may change the rate to its own 
base rate which it applies to its variable rate mortgage loans. That rate will then be the 
Standard Variable Rate under the Offer and the person to whom we make the transfer may make further changes to that rate under condition 7 or the Offer.
the Standard Variable Rate set out in the Offer is the current rate only. We may change 
this rate from time to time.
We may transfer or charge or otherwise dispose of the Offer or any of our rights under 
the Offer (including the right to set the Interest Rate) to any person at any time at law or 
in equity without your consent. Where we transfer to any person the right to set the 
Interest Rate and we have set the Interest Rate by reference to the Standard Variable 
Rate, that person may set the interest charged under the Offer by reference to that 
person's own (or one of its own) standard variable rates.
Section 7 of the terms and conditions provides a further explanation of how the interest rate 
may vary:
7. Changing the interest Rate
7.1 We may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time.
7.2 We may increase the Standard Variable Rate at any time if one or more of the 
following reasons applies:
(a) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours;
(b) for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates 
we pay to our own funders;
(c) we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of 
profitability;
(d) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only) whose accounts are similar to yours;
(e) our administrative costs have increased or are likely to do so in the near future.
7.3 We will tell you of any change in the Standard Variable Rate and the Interest Rate in 
one of the following ways:
(a) by posting or delivering a notice to you in accordance with condition 24; or
(b) by publicising the change as follows:
(i) by displaying a notice of the change at our registered office and all our 
branch offices (if any); and/or
(ii) by advertising the notice in two or more national daily newspapers chosen 
by our board of directors (which will keep a list of the newspapers currently 
chosen by it for this purpose).
If a Loan is a capped rate loan or a fixed rate loan (the Conditions will indicate if a 
Loan is a capped rate loan or a fixed rate loan, and if so what any capped rate period 
and fixed rate period is) we are not obliged to give you notice of any changes that 
occur in the Standard Variable Rate during any period when such changes do not 
affect the rate you are charged during that period, for example when the Standard 
Variable Rate is higher than the capped rate or during any fixed rate period.From all this we can see it was explained that Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage would move to a 
variable rate linked to the SVR, and that the SVR (and therefore Mr and Mrs Fs variable rate 
from 2011) wasnt a base rate tracker product.
I understand Mr and Mrs F believed the SVR rate would likely follow base rate, and the base 
rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate products. 
But Ive not seen any evidence that Landmark told Mr and Mrs F that its SVR would always 
change in line with the base rate, and neither Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage offer or mortgage 
terms and conditions document say the SVR would track the base rate.
In any event, in the period that Mr and Mrs Fs monthly mortgage payment was linked to the 
SVR (that is, between June 2011 and February 2019, the SVR broadly moved when the 
base rate changed:
In June 2011 the SVR was 4.79% and the base rate was 0.5%.
From November 2016 the SVR was 4.64% and the base rate was 0.25%.
From January 2018 the SVR was 4.79% and the base rate was 0.5%.
From October 2018 the SVR was 5.04% and the base rate was 0.75%.
This shows that moves in the base rate were broadly reflected with changes to the SVR. 
There was a period between November 2016 and January 2018 when the SVR was reduced 
by slightly less than the base rate reduced, but then when the base rate went back up in 
January 2018 the SVR didnt increase by the same amount as base rate, so that change put 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage back to the same he differential as before the 2016 change. The 
contract Mr and Mrs F entered into doesnt guarantee that the SVR would track base rate 
and those changes seem fair.
As I explained in my decision about our jurisdiction, Ive no power to look at what happened 
before February 2014 because Mr and Mrs F didnt complain about the change in differential 
between the SVR and base rate at the time. If Mr and Mrs F wanted us to look at a complaint 
about what happened in 2008/2009 then they would have needed to have complained within 
six years of then, so by 2014/2015. 
In any event, Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage has only been linked to the SVR since June 2011, 
and since then the differential has been the same (other than the spell between November 
2016 and January 2018 that I set out above). Before then Mr and Mrs F were on a fixed rate, 
and the SVR stated in their mortgage offer was simply an indication of what the interest rate 
and payments on their mortgage would be from June 2011 if the SVR remained unchanged. 
It wasnt any guarantee of how much the SVR would be  or what the differential to base 
rate would be  when Mr and Mrs F moved to a product linked to it in 2011. 
I have considerable sympathy with the predicament Mr and Mrs F found themselves in. The 
lending environment when they took their mortgage out was very different. 
When Landmark took over the mortgage it was on a rate linked to the SVR, and that 
continues to be applied. Landmark wasnt an active lender and wasnt trying to attract new 
customers through offering low rates. All its customers move onto - and remain on - the SVR 
(or a rate linked to it) once their previous interest rate products expire. To that extent, it 
wasnt treating Mr and Mrs F any differently from any of its other customers. 
Although Landmark is a closed lender (in that its not taking on new business) its still 
regulated by the FCA and must follow its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs rules that 
says a lender has to offer new interest rates to its customers once their old ones expire. The 
rules say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their best interests; it has to communicate with them in a clear, fair and not misleading way; it has to notify them of 
changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt take advantage of customers who cant 
move their mortgages elsewhere by treating them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics. 
Landmark notified Mr and Mrs F of changes to their payments from time to time. And it 
wasnt treating them differently from its other customers  all customers must stay on the 
SVR (or a rate linked to it) once their products expire, just like Mr and Mrs F. So, I dont think 
Landmark was in breach of any of the regulators rules in not offering them a new rate. 
I dont think Landmark was acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement either. 
As Ive already explained, Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage offer set out that they would pay a 
preferential rate and thereafter a rate linked to the SVR. Nothing in the mortgage offer or the 
mortgage terms say that Mr and Mrs F would be entitled to another preferential interest rate 
after that one expired. Im aware, of course, that its common for borrowers to take a 
preferential rate product  and then take another rate rather than revert to the SVR. 
Sometimes thats with an existing lender; sometimes its with another lender. But as I say, 
theres nothing in Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage agreement that says theyre entitled to a new 
rate. 
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires Landmark to offer new interest rates. Nor is it under any other legal obligation 
to do so. Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I do that by considering the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, and good industry practice  but ultimately, Im not constrained by them if I think 
fairness requires me to do something else. So, the question I must answer is whether, taking 
into account the rules and the mortgage terms, its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances that Landmark didnt offer Mr and Mrs F a new interest rate thats lower than 
the rate they had that was linked to SVR. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive considered everything Ive set out above. Its 
unfortunate that Mr and Mrs F ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer new 
rates. But Landmark was their lender, and legitimately so. Its doesnt offer new interest rates 
to any customers, including Mr and Mrs F. Under current law and regulations, thats a 
position Landmark is entitled to take. Im mindful that if Landmark were to offer new lower 
rates to some customers, but not others, that could mean some customers were being 
treated less favourably than others with similar characteristics  which in turn could 
potentially cause unfairness. But that wasnt the case. 
There was nothing in Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage agreement that would have prevented them 
remortgaging elsewhere  they were no longer liable for an early repayment charge, for 
example. But the reason they said they couldnt do so sooner was because of external 
changes and factors  changes which werent part of their mortgage contract, werent within 
Landmarks control, and couldnt have been foreseen by any party when they took the 
mortgage out. 
Landmark wasnt treating Mr and Mrs F any differently from how it treats its other customers. 
Theres nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that required Landmark to 
offer new products. Landmark itself wasnt standing in the way of Mr and Mrs F moving their 
mortgage elsewhere. Im also mindful that while Landmarks SVR is significantly higher than 
new interest rate products offered by other lenders, its not dissimilar to other lenders SVRs. 
Taking the facts of this case into account, and considering the law, rules and my findings 
about Landmarks business model and the level of its SVR, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman