DRN-1543947
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) mishandled his home emergency 
insurance claim.
RSA appoint intermediaries to manage their home emergency claims, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts and omissions of such 
intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr M holds home emergency cover with RSA. He made a claim in November 2019 after his 
boiler had broken down, and an engineer was sent by RSA to investigate the fault. 
Mr M says the engineer did not appear to be familiar with the type of boiler he had and 
seemed to have little knowledge of how it operated. The engineer concluded that there was 
a problem with one of the pumps that had started leaking and said that the problem with the 
boiler should be resolved upon replacing it. But Mr M did not think this was correct as he 
suspected it was an electrical problem and said that the engineer didnt mention anything in 
this regard. 
Mr M says he called RSA a day later and explained that he thought the engineer had 
misdiagnosed the problem and asked if they could send another engineer experienced in 
dealing with his particular model of boiler. But RSA refused this request as they considered 
their engineers diagnosis to be correct, so Mr M says he was forced to pay the policy 
excess for the replacement pump to be bought and fitted. 
Mr M says the engineer returned to his property around two weeks later and fitted the pump 
with an inferior brand, and says there was also a spark when he tried to turn on the system 
which tripped the circuit board. It was only at this point that Mr M says the engineer 
suggested the fault could also be due to a faulty PCB board. However, RSA said they would 
not be able to replace this as well as it would then exceed his home emergency policy limit 
of £500.
Mr M complained as he said the engineer misdiagnosed the problem the first time round and 
left him with a boiler that still does not work. He says that if RSA had allowed him a second 
engineers opinion then their boiler would not be in the state of disrepair it is now. 
RSA upheld Mr Ms complaint as they acknowledged that the claim could have been handled 
better. They offered to reimburse the cost his own engineers fees up to the policy limit of 
£500. But they said that this was on the proviso that his independent engineer had a 
different diagnosis to that arrived at by their engineer. If the same diagnosis was advised, 
then they said they would not reimburse Mr Ms fees. Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think RSA had acted reasonably 
by relying on their engineers advice as to the primary reasons for the fault, particularly when 
Mr M had not provided any independent evidence to show the initial diagnosis was incorrect. And given that the repairs subsequently identified would exceed the policy limit, he didnt 
think RSA were obliged to cover these costs. Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been 
passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same reasons as the investigator. 
I appreciate that Mr M doubted the competence of the engineer sent by RSA as well as the 
fact that he thought it was a leaking pump that was causing the issue rather than an 
electrical fault. And I understand that he wanted them to send another engineer to provide a 
second opinion. But RSA were not obliged to take any such action, as they had already sent 
an engineer to inspect the fault. And the fact that the engineer may have had to consult the 
manufacturers manual does not necessarily mean he was not qualified to diagnose the 
problem or carry out a repair. So I'm not persuaded that RSA had sent an inappropriately 
qualified engineer to inspect the fault. 
As outlined by the investigator, RSA are entitled to rely on the opinion of qualified experts 
when assessing an insurance claim. And in this instance, their engineer reported that 
one of the pumps has started leaking, no way of getting heating back on had to drain 
down system as valves are corroded and not moving.
The engineer primarily concluded that a replacement pump was required to get the heating 
back on  seemingly over and above any other potential problems that may have been 
present such as a fault with the PCB board. I appreciate that Mr M feels that RSA had been 
given the wrong diagnosis from the outset, and that it was an electrical fault all along. But I 
have seen no independent expert evidence (such as an opinion from a different engineer) to 
suggest that RSAs diagnosis was incorrect and that a replacement pump was never needed 
to fix the fault with the boiler. So I dont consider there to be any reasonable basis for RSA to 
have to cover any further costs that fall over and above the policy limit.
I acknowledge that RSA said the claim could have been handled better. But they offered to 
reimburse Mr M the fees for appointing his own independent engineer if it could be shown 
that their diagnosis was incorrect, which I think is a reasonable compromise given there was 
nothing to cast doubt on their engineers diagnosis other than Mr Ms own opinion. 
Mr M says he has since instructed an independent engineer who has said that the boiler is 
now beyond economical repair and needs replacing. If it could be objectively reported that 
the actions taken by RSAs engineer had actually damaged the boiler and had rendered it 
beyond economical repair, then I would expect the insurer to consider covering the cost of a 
replacement. But I havent seen any such evidence in this case, so I cant fairly hold RSA 
responsible for this. However, Mr M may want to consult his home insurance policy to see if 
this will cover a boiler replacement. 
So, Im not persuaded that RSA have acted unreasonably by relying on the opinion of their 
appointed engineer, as I've seen no evidence to suggest that the engineer's diagnosis was 
wrong. And I'm also not persuaded that they have mishandled Mr Ms claim to such an 
extent that any compensation is warranted in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman