DRN-3294799
The complaint
Mr V complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) didnt tell him that it couldnt 
accept the shares he wanted to transfer into his account. He wants compensation for the 
financial loss he says hes made.
What happened
Mr V had a holding of shares in the company he worked for, which I will refer to as E. Mr V 
wanted to transfer the shares into his II account. He says II should have realised earlier than 
it did that it wouldnt accept the shares. And when II did tell him it couldnt accept the shares; 
it didnt send him a secure message and he says he didnt receive the email. By the time he 
was told by his existing provider that II couldnt accept the shares, it was too late to prevent 
that provider automatically selling the shares. He says hes made a loss of around £10,000 
because of the price the shares were sold at; plus, hes lost the opportunity to profit from the 
shares income and growth in the future.
II said it didnt receive the transfer instruction until 7 January 2021 and it sent an email to 
Mr V, and his existing provider, on the same day to tell them it couldnt accept the shares 
and it had cancelled the transfer. But it also noted that Mr V had given II details of the shares 
he wanted to transfer during a phone call on 30 November 2020 but that this information had 
not been passed to its transfers team. As a gesture of goodwill, it paid Mr V £50.
Our investigator thought II should reasonably have known by around 1 December 2020 that 
Mr V wanted to transfer shares that it didnt support on its platform. And she thought the 
delay in telling him about the transfer cancellation caused him a lot of frustration. She 
thought II should pay Mr V an additional £100. But she didnt think the sale of the shares was 
in IIs control, so it couldnt be held responsible for any loss Mr V made. She also couldnt 
conclude that II had made an error when it sent an email, rather than a secure message on 
7 January.
Neither party agreed with the investigators conclusion.
Mr V said, in summary, that 
He did not receive IIs email that it says it sent on 7 January 2021. He told it he didnt 
always receive its emails and it should have communicated with him through its secure 
message facility. He only found out the transfer had been cancelled when his existing 
provider told him, and by then it was too late to stop the automatic sale of the shares.
The sale of the shares resulted in a tax liability of around £3,000 which he wants added 
to his compensation claim.
II said, in summary, that:
It isnt responsible for Mr V not receiving its 7 January email.
This was a business to business transfer, and it couldnt accurately assess the shares 
compatibility with its platform until it received details of those shares from Mr Vs 
provider. It told Mr V that it couldnt accept the shares on the same day that it was told 
what those shares were by Mr Vs provider. 
It was not responsible for the sale of the shares.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going 
to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, Im sorry for the position in which Mr V finds himself. He clearly did not want his 
holding of E shares sold for the price he received, and hes incurred a tax liability. But I need 
to decide whether the loss he made is a direct result of any error that II made. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr V, but I dont find that it is. Let me explain why.
Mr V requested the transfer on 29 November 2020. This should then have been dealt with by 
his existing provider and II, but I can see Mr V made a number of calls to II to give it the 
information he thought it needed to process the request.
II said it couldnt assess the compatibility of the shares with its platform until it received 
details of the shares from Mr Vs existing provider. And I accept this is its usual procedure. 
But during Mr Vs phone call on 30 November, he gave II details of the shares. When the 
information was received from his existing provider on 7 January, it didnt include anything 
extra. And the member of staff who took the details on 30 November said he had put a note 
in its records for the case handler dealing with the transfer. But II says that the information 
was not passed on. I do find it made a mistake here. And I find it more likely than not that, if 
the transfers team had received that information, it should reasonably have assessed 
whether it could accept the shares or not. In response to our investigators view, II was clear 
that an assessment would not be made based on information provided by a consumer. But 
in response to Mr Vs complaint, it said Please accept my apologies for the fact that you 
were not informed we could not support E shares earlier than 7th January 2021. So it does 
seem to have accepted that it could have told Mr V earlier than it did. II paid Mr V £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. I agree with our investigator that the delay caused Mr V considerable 
stress and inconvenience and I agree that II should pay an additional £100 compensation.
IIs platform does not support E shares. So I cant say its decision to cancel the transfer was 
unfair or unreasonable.
Mr V also complains that II should have communicated its decision to cancel the transfer by 
secure message. He says he did not receive its 7 January email and that hed told II he 
didnt always receive its emails. But during the call on 30 November, he told II it was the 
secure message system that he was having difficulties with. And II confirmed that he would 
be contacted by email once the transfer had been approved. I find it was reasonable for II to 
communicate its decision by email. Im persuaded by the information that II has provided that 
its email was sent to Mr Vs correct email address. Its unfortunate Mr V didnt receive it, but I dont find that was due to anything II did wrong. And I can see II also emailed Mr Vs existing 
provider, so it would also have known on 7 January that the transfer had been cancelled. 
I agree with the investigator that I cant hold II responsible for the sale of Mr Vs shares by 
his existing provider. It didnt know that Mr Vs shares would be automatically sold if the 
transfer was cancelled, and it couldnt agree to the transfer because its platform didnt 
support the shares.
My final decision
My decision is that Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr V £100 (in addition to 
the £50 already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman