DRN-3062249
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refused to carry out a Subject Access Request (SAR) 
when he called it.
What happened
Mr F says he called Lloyds on 22 April 2021 and asked it to carry out a SAR. He says Lloyds 
refused to take his instructions via a telephone call and gave him incorrect advice about a 
SAR. Mr F says Lloyds upheld his complaint, but its compensation offer doesnt go far 
enough and says its clear Lloyds staff havent received appropriate training on this issue.
Lloyds accepts it made a mistake and says it offered to carry out the SAR shortly after Mr Fs 
initial request. It says it has paid £75 compensation and £10 for Mr Fs call costs and says it 
will not provide information about staff training.
Mr F brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted Lloyds had made a mistake 
but thought the compensation appropriate. The investigator thought Lloyds had sorted the 
problem out within a very short time period and said it wasnt out role to comment on Lloyds 
staff training.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says he has made between 50-60 calls about this issue 
and says he should be paid more than £1,000 compensation. He says the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) has confirmed Lloyds had breached legally enforceable 
regulations.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Lloyds made a mistake by telling Mr F that it couldnt carry out 
a SAR via instructions on a telephone call. I appreciate Mr Fs frustration in those 
circumstances as he had made similar requests in the past and I accept he spent about 40 
minutes on that call. But I can also see that Lloyds accepted it made a mistake shortly after 
the complaint was raised and offered to carry out the SAR within a relatively short time 
period after the initial request.
For those reasons Im satisfied that Lloyds compensation offer of £75 is fair and reasonable 
and fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr F was caused. I dont think Mr F 
suffered any financial loss apart from any call costs and have made clear the problem was 
sorted out within a short time period. Im also satisfied that Lloyds has paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £10 for any call costs.
I appreciate Mr F says he made between 50- 60 calls to Lloyds about this issue and would 
like his time and costs compensated. I dont think Mr F needed to make those calls based on 
the evidence I have seen and think those calls were his choice. In any event I have not seen 
evidence of any call costs.
I also appreciate Mr F questions Lloyds staff training on this sort of issue. I cant fairly order 
Lloyds to tell Mr F what training its staff undertake and make clear to Mr F that we are not 
Lloyds regulator. 
Overall, I accept Lloyds made a mistake but find that its compensation offer fair and 
reasonable. I also find this brings and end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint 
informally can do. I dont need to comment on the findings of the ICO as there is no issue 
here that a mistake was made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman