DRN-3958150
The complaint
Ms M complains about the service she received from Nationwide Building Society following a 
roadside breakdown.
What happened
Ms M Holds a FlexPlus account with Nationwide. The account comes with a number of add 
ons, including roadside assistance, which provides support for customers in the event of a 
vehicle breakdown or road traffic accident. 
In May 2022, Ms Ms vehicle broke down. And shes told us that she contacted her roadside 
assistance provider, who attended, and her vehicle was taken to a garage, and she was 
collected by a friend. But Ms M said she was later told by Nationwide that her policy 
potentially provided onward travel and a courtesy car, and she was unhappy this was not 
brought to her attention by either Nationwide or the roadside assistance provider at the time 
of the breakdown. She said that as a result, she was inconvenienced, and missed a funeral 
she was due to attend. 
A number of days later, Ms M went to a Nationwide branch to withdraw cash in order to pay 
the garage for repairs. She requested this was done away from the counter in a private 
room, but she said that Nationwide refused. It was later agreed the withdrawal could be done 
at the counter after closing, but Ms M remained unhappy with this, as she said it didnt afford 
her the privacy that she wanted. She also said that staff were rude to her, and she was 
unhappy with the overall service she received. So, she complained about both this, and the 
lack of information provided by Nationwide in respect of her roadside assistance cover. 
Nationwide considered her complaint. They explained they werent able to complete the cash 
withdrawal in a private room, but had offered to count the money discreetly at the till where 
CCTV could cover any potential discrepancies. They also said they could provide an 
envelope for the money, or could assist Ms M at an ATM with the withdrawal. Ultimately, as 
the branch was about to close, they agreed to complete the withdrawal at the counter in the 
branch after hours, which they felt would provide Ms M with more privacy. So, they felt theyd 
offered suitable alternative options for Ms M to complete the transaction.
Regarding Ms Ms roadside assistance cover, Nationwide said they couldnt confirm what 
wouldve been shared with her when she upgraded to her flex account, as this was back in 
2014.  But they could see that in January 2022, they sent all customers a notification of 
changes to their roadside assistance provider, which included information relating to both 
courtesy cars and onward travel, and mentioned the circumstances under which they would 
be available. So, they felt theyd provided Ms M with sufficient detail regarding her cover to 
have at least prompted her to discuss the finer detail of this with the provider. Unhappy with 
this, Ms M brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said he 
thought Nationwide had offered sufficient support with the withdrawal, and that the 
adjustments they offered were reasonable to try to alleviate Ms Ms concerns. He was also 
satisfied they had sufficiently notified Ms M of what cover she had in place, and that the 2022 
notifications set out broadly the scenarios in which Ms M may have been entitled for support 
with onward travel or a courtesy car. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything further. 
But Ms M remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms set out her position at length and Id like to thank her for taking the time to do so. But 
my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Ms M has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
Also, to clarify, while Ms Ms roadside assistance policy comes as an add on to her bank 
account, the cover itself is underwritten by another company. So, when looking at Ms Ms 
complaint about her roadside assistance cover, my decision will not focus on the level of 
cover provided in any detail, but will look rather, at what information Nationwide provided 
Ms M in respect of the cover.
Looking at the roadside assistance cover first, Ms Ms complaint is that Nationwide did not 
make her aware that she had both a courtesy car option and onward travel available. When 
looking into this, Ive looked at what information Ms M wouldve been provided both at the 
point of sale, and more recently, regarding this feature of her bank account.
When we asked Nationwide what would have been discussed at the point of sale, theyve 
explained that the account was upgraded in 2014, so their records are very limited and they 
would not be able to confirm specifically what conversations took place. Given this was 
almost nine years ago, I dont find this unusual. But I think its likely Ms M would have 
received some basic policy information, such as a policy summary and policy documents 
that set out the terms of the cover. Within Nationwides final response, they set out that when 
Ms M complained, she said to Nationwide that she was told at the time of taking the account 
she would get a courtesy car with her breakdown cover. So, it seems by Ms Ms own 
admission, that she was aware that a courtesy car was something included within her 
roadside assistance cover, in some form.
I can also see that the cover provider has changed since the point of sale. And Nationwide  
have sent us a copy of the notifications they say they sent to all of their customers in 
January 2022. This sets out that their breakdown cover provider was changing from the 
previous provider to a new one. It also goes on to talk broadly about some of the features of 
that cover, and mentions that customers will still receive Roadside Assistance, National 
Recovery, Onward Travel and At Home cover. It then goes on to mention that in the event 
of a non-fault accident, the provider can also take care of recovery, repair, a courtesy car or 
a hire car. Given that Nationwide have told our service this was sent to all of their FlexPlus 
account holders, I think that its likely, on balance, that Ms M wouldve received this. 
And while this letter, in and of itself, did not list the full policy terms, it does appear that the 
policy terms were attached to this. And furthermore, it set out clearly that Ms Ms policy did 
include a courtesy car, and still included onward travel in certain scenarios. So, I think 
Nationwide did enough to notify Ms M of what cover she had in place. And any concerns 
about what further conversations took place with the breakdown provider at the time of the 
incident, would need to be raised with the provider directly. Turning next to the issue of service within the branch. I understand that Ms M is upset with 
the way in which her request to withdraw some money was dealt with. 
 
Shes said she asked Nationwide to take her into a private room for the money to be counted 
out, but that Nationwide were not prepared to do so. I understand why Ms M may have 
wished for her money to be counted out privately, and why she may have concerns from a 
personal security perspective about this being done publicly. 
But Nationwide have explained that this isnt something they can do, both for security 
reasons, and also because their CCTV covered the till, which would allow them to pick up 
any later discrepancies with the withdrawal. I think that their stance here seems fair, and Im 
satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for staff not to leave the cashiers desk and enter the banking 
hall with cash on them, for the reasons explained. Equally it seems alternative options were 
explored, including Ms M going to an ATM within the branch with a member of staff. But I 
understand Ms M was also uncomfortable with this, due to the location of the ATM and who 
may be able to see her withdrawing the cash. 
Nationwide has told us that as the branch was due to close shortly, they agreed that Ms M 
could stay behind once the branch was locked and carry out the transaction then. But Ms M 
however, has said that this was her suggestion, not Nationwides. While its unclear who 
initiated the idea, it doesnt appear that Nationwide objected to this, and ultimately the 
withdrawal was carried out in branch, outside of normal working hours. So, putting aside 
whos idea this was, it seems Nationwide did step outside of their normal processes in order 
to try and assist Ms M, which I think was more than fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Ms M has said that she feels some of the staff members were rude, and that 
shed raised a previous complaint about one of them within the branch. But Nationwide have 
explained that they tried several different ways to try and accommodate Ms Ms request, 
stepping outside of their normal processes in order to try and alleviate her concerns. 
When it comes to matters like this, it can be difficult to decide what happened, when both 
sides give different versions of events. And I am sorry if Ms M wasnt satisfied with the 
overall service she received within branch. However, from what Ive seen, as well as 
agreeing to Ms Ms request for a cash withdrawal, it seems Nationwide either offered, or 
agreed to various other methods by which to support Ms M with this transaction. And while I 
appreciate ultimately, that the transaction wasnt completed in exactly the way Ms M 
wouldve liked, I think Nationwides reasons for not being able to do so seem reasonable, 
and the alternatives offered were fair. So overall, Im not persuaded that the service levels 
Ms M experienced, fell below what I would have expected her to receive.
In summary, and while I accept that this is not the answer Ms M was hoping for, on balance, 
I think Ms M was provided with sufficient information to bring to her attention the basic 
features of the roadside assistance policy she had in place. And Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the subsequent service she received in branch fell below the 
level I would expect. So, for these reasons, Im not asking Nationwide to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Brad McIlquhamOmbudsman