Complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis- sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about the sale of PPI policy. The policy provided cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI was sold to Mr A in 2003 at the same time he arranged his mortgage. He says he 
wasnt given an option about the PPI and was told that his mortgage application would be 
rejected if he didnt agree to take it out.
Santander says Mr W would have been given a choice about the PPI. Theres limited 
information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr W in 2003, which isnt unusual 
given the sale took place over 16 years ago. As a result, Santander hasnt been able to 
provide us with a copy of PPI application form which Mr W would have completed at the time 
of sale. So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is most 
likely to have happened at the time of sale.
Using what I know generally about Santanders sales processes in 2003, I think its more 
likely that Mr W would have been given a choice about the PPI. And I think its more likely 
that Santander would have had to gain Mr Ws consent before adding it to his mortgage.  At 
the time the PPI was sold to Mr W, Santanders sales processes included a separate 
application form for the PPI which Mr W would have to complete in order to take out the PPI.
DRN-1057905In support of what its said, Santander has provided our service with a copy of Mr Ws 
mortgage application and a letter he would have received following the sale. Given the 
mortgage application form doesnt make mention of any PPI, Im satisfied that its likely that 
Mr W would have completed a separate form for the PPI. In addition to this, have reviewed 
the letter Mr W would have received about the PPI following the sale, I can see that it refers 
to Mr W choosing to out Paymentcare. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr W has told us. But, I havent seen enough to 
make me think its likely that Santander didnt follow its usual sales processes at the time the 
PPI was sold to him. Taking everything into account, including the available information, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr W would have been given a choice about the PPI.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr W, and the policy seems to have been right 
for him based on what Ive seen of him circumstances at the time. He was eligible for cover 
and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr W has told us that he had had the equivalent of at least six months salary in the form of 
savings which he could have used to help cover his mortgage repayments. Having thought 
about what Mr W has said about his savings, I dont think this means the PPI wasnt right for 
him. Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met 
borrowers stand to lose their home. Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I can 
see that The PPI would have covered Mr Ws mortgage repayments for up to 12 months for 
each claim if Mr W was unable to work because of sickness or if he was ever made 
redundant. This would have enabled Mr W to use any savings he says he had for any other 
financial commitments at what could have been a difficult time. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr W, Santander also had to give him 
clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Santander didnt give him all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mr W buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI on Mr Ws mortgage because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr 
W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums on Mr Ws mortgage. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before18 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman