DRN-4085391
Complaint
Mr P complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
The complainant, Mr H P is represented by Mr M P  but as Mr H P remains the 
complainant, I will refer to him as Mr P throughout this decision. 
Background
Around December 2019, Mr P decided to purchase a solar panel system the system and 
finance it through a fixed sum loan agreement with Allium. The system was sold by a 
supplier  who Ill refer to as S. The system was subsequently installed.
Mr P says that Ss salesperson had assured him that the solar panels would be low profile 
and he wouldnt experience any nesting of birds. Mr P says his neighbours were 
experiencing a lot of trouble with nesting pigeons under the panels on their roof, so this was 
something he was concerned about. He accepted the advice of Ss salesperson and 
proceeded with the sale on this basis. 
On the day of installation, Mr P says he was offered pest control netting by Ss sub-
contractors (outside of his actual contract with S ), at an additional cost of £350  but he 
declined this on the grounds that hed been told by Ss salesperson that the solar panels 
being installed would not experience any nesting issues. 
Mr P has since experienced problems with pigeons and contacted S on the grounds that 
they had not installed the system he had been promised. S responded that it had supplied 
and installed the system in line with its contract and any issues with birds nesting was 
beyond its control. Its former salesperson (who no longer worked for S), said he could recall 
no discussion about nesting. 
As a gesture of goodwill, S offered to install pest control nesting at a cost of £350 (providing 
the labour for free), if Mr P could supply the scaffolding. If Mr P required S to also install 
scaffolding, there would be an additional cost. 
Unhappy, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. This service contacted Allium on his 
behalf, to raise a complaint against it  as the finance provider. We explained to Allium that 
the representative had said that S had made a representation about the system being 
pigeon proof, that had turned out not to be true, and it was this misrepresentation that had 
induced Mr P to enter into the contract with S. 
Allium didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr P or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that S had misrepresented 
the system to Mr P and found no reason to uphold the complaint. She re-iterated that the 
offer made by S, to install netting for £350  was still available if Mr P now wished to take up 
the offer. 
Mr P didnt agree, explaining that he didnt accept Ss offer of installing the netting as the 
scaffolding would have cost him an additional £1,200. He also added that he believes the 
salesperson had been dismissed by S for providing false information to consumers and he 
would send in information to prove this  although nothing further has been submitted 
despite multiple chasers having been sent. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As Mr P paid 
for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Allium agrees that section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Allium, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by S in the same way he could have claimed against 
S, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
S, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Allium.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr P says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be bird proof and 
he wouldnt experiencing any nesting. He relied on this information and bought the system 
on that basis.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr P and Allium. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. I can see the sales documents make no mention of the solar panels being specifically bird 
proof or protected from pests or nesting. From what I can see, it seems that the system 
installed is in line with the written contract offered to Mr P. 
Ive gone on to consider whether theres sufficient evidence that Ss salesperson made a 
verbal representation that Mr Ps system would be bird proof. Mr P has alleged that he 
proceeded on the basis that the system would be bird proof, but nothing in any of the 
documentation submitted indicates that the system was sold as bird proof in any way. The 
only reference to pigeons or pests is in the quote, and it says that these are outside the 
control of S. I would add that requiring netting to solar panels to protect them from nesting is 
a common solution to the issue  and I think S as an experienced supplier of solar panels 
would have been aware of this. 
I dont think theres enough evidence here, that S (or its salesperson), deliberately misled 
Mr P about the system being bird proof when that wasnt the case. The fact that he was 
offered netting on the day of installation (albeit outside of his existing contract and at an 
additional cost), indicates that it was known that the system wasnt in fact bird-proof and the 
netting was offered as a preventative measure. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint, Id have to be satisfied that S (or its sales person), 
had been trying to intentionally mislead Mr P by telling him the solar panels were bird proof, 
despite being aware that they werent. This is a serious allegation and Id need persuasive 
evidence to hold Allium liable for such a misrepresentation, which I dont have in this case. 
Overall, theres nothing in any of the documentation indicating that the system was sold 
specifically as bird proof  the only reference to it explicitly says that problems with pests 
and pigeons are outside of its control. And on the day of installation, Mr P was offered 
netting indicating that it was well known that these panels werent indeed bird proof. 
So while I have considered carefully Mr Ps testimony (though his representative), and 
believe he has provided his best recollection of events, Im afraid there simply isnt sufficient 
evidence that the solar panel system was sold on the basis that it would be pest/pigeon 
proof. So, Im satisfied that Allium did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining the 
claim. 
I appreciate both Mr P and his representative (Mr M P) are likely to be extremely 
disappointed with my findings and Im very sorry I cant help them any further. But as 
explained above, Im afraid, there simply isnt sufficient evidence for me to uphold this 
complaint. 
As explained by our investigator, S has said its offer to install netting at a cost of £350 is still 
available for Mr P to accept.  Mr P would either need to arrange the scaffolding required 
himself or pay S for this service too. If Mr P would now like to arrange this  he should 
contact S directly to discuss next steps. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Asma BegumOmbudsman