DRN-3516337
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) misled him about how much 
his pension would be worth at retirement. Hes unhappy with the current value of his 
pension, which he feels is far lower than he was led to expect.
Mr S took out his pension with a business which became part of Aviva. So the complaint is 
with them to resolve.  
What happened
Mr S said he set up a pension with Aviva in November 1987 after seeing a newspaper 
advert. At the time, he was aged 29 and employed. 
The pension was set up with a monthly premium of £20 from December 1987. The 
premiums were invested in the with-profits fund. The policy had a basic sum assured of 
£12,133. This guaranteed the minimum fund value at retirement. But the final amount 
depended on the bonuses that were added over the term. 
The pension was written to age 70. But Mr S selected 65 as his retirement age. I understand 
that there was no penalty for taking benefits from age 65.
In 2004, Mr S asked Aviva for a projection of his pension benefits. Aviva provided a 
projection to age 70. This showed a value of £29,600 if 5% growth was achieved and 
£65,400 if 9% growth was achieved every year until Mr S reached age 70. The letter stated 
that the figures werent guaranteed. 
In 2018, Mr S asked Aviva for a further projection. Avivas 24 August 2018 letter confirmed 
the current transfer value of his plan was £20,334. The letter stated that the value wasnt 
guaranteed. And that it could go down as well as up.
Mr S said he received annual statements for his pension every year. He said that hed been 
aware that his pension value was lower than expected from around 2000. But that as he still 
had 15 to 20 years for the policy to run, he didnt raise a complaint about the lower than 
expected values. But he said the newspaper advert that had led him to set-up the pension 
had led him to think he should be expecting much more from his policy. And then, when he 
was made redundant, he decided to revisit his pension. He said at this point he found it was 
worth much less than hed been expecting. So in June 2021, he complained to Aviva.
Mr S felt that his pension had underperformed against what had been projected when hed 
taken out the plan in 1987. He felt he was guaranteed £89,000. And that hed been mis-sold.
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 2 September 2021. They didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. They said there were no guarantees in the set-up 
documentation. They said that before the Financial Services Act 1986 had come into effect 
in 1988, there had been no regulatory rules governing any advice given. But that their sales 
representatives had held a common law duty of care. This meant they had to give advice 
with reasonable skill and care. And had to disclose material facts. They also couldnt be 
negligent in what they stated. 
Aviva said they hadnt found any evidence to suggest theyd breached their duty of care.  
They said that their product literature had correctly explained the features and risks of the 
contract. And that what Mr S would get back at maturity wasnt guaranteed, but was 
dependent on the bonuses added to his policy. These depended on the investment return 
earned over the lifetime of the policy. 
Aviva also said that Mr S had asked them for a projected maturity value in October 2004. 
They said the November 2004 projection theyd provided had shown that his pension fund 
could be worth £65,400 at age 70 under specified growth and contribution assumptions. But 
had also confirmed that the projections werent guaranteed. And that he could get more or 
less than this.
Aviva felt that this service may not be able to look at the complaint as they thought it had 
happened outside the permitted timescales. This meant that they felt Mr S hadnt 
complained to them in time. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator first considered whether we could 
look into the complaint. 
Our investigator noted the following points in concluding that this service could look into the 
complaint:
- He explained the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules under which this service operates. 
And noted that we couldnt consider a complaint if the complainant had referred it to 
this service more than six years after the event complained of; or (if later) three years 
from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
- He said the event being complained about was the 1987 sale of the policy, which 
was clearly more than six years ago.
- He said that Aviva felt that the projection letter theyd sent Mr S on 2 November 2004 
shouldve made Mr S aware of an issue, as this showed a highest projected value at 
age 70 of £64,500. But that as Mr S had received the letter when he was still 19 
years from retirement, he didnt agree that a lower projection wouldve given him 
cause for concern at that time. 
- He also felt that although the anniversary certificates Aviva had sent Mr S over the 
years showed the value of his policy over time, they also stated that Your plan may 
have a guarantee at maturity or if you die. So he didnt consider that the receipt of 
such statements wouldve caused concern.
- Our investigator noted that Mr S had received, at his request, a further projection for 
his pension at age 70 on 24 August 2018. This had also included a current value for 
the pension of £20,334. He felt that as Mr S had specifically requested the projection, 
and because he was now much closer to retirement, this was the point at which he 
shouldve been aware that his pension wasnt in line with what he was expecting.
- As this was withing three years of Mr Ss complaint, he felt it had been made in time.
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint. He didnt consider it should be 
upheld. He didnt find any evidence that the pension itself was unsuitable for Mr S, or that his 
premiums had been mismanaged in any way. He also found no evidence of any guarantee being documented other than the basic sum assured value of £12,133.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. Aviva had said that hed met one of their 
representatives before buying his pension, but he said he hadnt ever met an adviser or 
representative when setting his policy up. But had simply applied for the pension through the 
post after seeing the newspaper advert. Mr S said that this advert had promised the returns 
he noted within his complaint. He didnt have a copy of the advert he said hed seen.
Our investigator asked Aviva for any further comments or evidence about how the pension 
had been sold.
Aviva said that it had appeared that the policy had been set up in the way theyd indicated, 
but they had no way of knowing who the representative had been. They also said they 
couldnt find any record or copy of the newspaper advert Mr S said had prompted him to buy 
the policy. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should explain that I agree with our investigators conclusions on the jurisdiction of 
this complaint. I consider Mr S ought reasonably to have had cause for complaint when he 
received updated projections from Aviva in August 2018. As he complained to Aviva within 
three years of this date, my conclusion is that this complaint falls within the required time 
limits.
In terms of the merits of the complaint, Im not going to uphold it, for largely the same 
reasons our investigator has already noted. I know Mr S will be very disappointed by this, so 
Ill explain why. 
As our investigator said, the main source of information for complaints like this one is the 
paperwork that was completed at the time. Aviva have provided the set-up documentation, 
but are unable to state with certainty exactly how the sale was carried out. 
I first considered what the rules at the time were for pension sales like this one. I 
acknowledge that Mr S and Aviva dont agree on how the pension was sold. So Ive 
considered what the rules wouldve been if Avivas representative had been involved in the 
sale. 
As Aviva noted in their final response, before the Financial Services Act 1986 (FSA) came 
into force on 29 April 1988, advisers were only bound by the common law requirements, 
which were:
Not to make negligent mis-statements
Where information was given, to disclose all material information, and
Where advice was given, to advise with reasonable care and skill
I next considered the documentary evidence available. 
Aviva said that as the pension was taken out in 1987, this was before the FSA 1986 and therefore there was no sales file. They said that although Mr S believed hed been given a 
guarantee that his pension fund would be worth £89,000 at retirement, he hadnt provided 
any information to evidence this guarantee. 
Mr S felt that as the newspaper advert had guaranteed £89,000 at retirement, Aviva should 
honour this amount. But he was unable to provide any documentary evidence of this 
guarantee.
Aviva provided this service with the policy schedule and proposal forms which were 
completed in 1987. These confirm that the pension was an endowment type policy with a 
basic sum assured of £12,133. And with premiums of £20 each month which were invested 
in the with-profits fund.
Theres no evidence of any guarantee, other than the basic sum assured value of £12,133, 
in the pension information Ive seen. The documentation explained that the final value would 
depend on bonuses added to the policy over the term. This is not uncommon with policies of 
this type.
Mr S shared a copy of the first page of his 13 November 2017 anniversary certificate. This 
said that the transfer value at 12 October 2017 was £21,558.90. It also said the following:
Following a bonus review rate on 31 December 2016 we are unable to declare any regular 
bonus this year.
Your plan may also have a guaranteed benefit at maturity or if you die. Any regular bonus 
youve already received is also guaranteed. Because of the investment conditions weve 
seen recently and in previous years, weve made payment of guaranteed benefits our 
priority. At present we are unable to add to these guarantees with further regular bonus 
payments. Any future investment earnings in excess of those needed to support guarantees 
already given are much more likely to be added through final bonuses which, as they vary by 
commencement year, allow for greater flexibility. 
Im satisfied that the anniversary certificate and the additional projections Mr S received in 
2004 and 2018 clearly explained that the values shown werent guaranteed. And that they 
depended on future investment earnings. 
I acknowledge that the anniversary certificate stated that Mr Ss plan may also have a 
guaranteed benefit at maturity. It did have a minimum sum assured of £12,133. This was 
quoted on the 2004 projection. So I understand why Mr S may have read that certificate and 
thought it was possible he still had an overriding guarantee of the £89,000 he said hed been 
guaranteed through the newspaper advert. 
But Ive found no documentary evidence of the £89,000 guarantee Mr S said he expected. I 
have seen evidence that a minimum value of £12,133 was guaranteed. Its hard to see why 
a policy would state a minimum guaranteed value if it also contained a higher guarantee  
the lower value would be unnecessary in that case. Ive also seen evidence that Aviva made 
it clear to Mr S over the years that the eventual amount hed receive from the policy would 
depend on future bonuses. And that these may not be added each year as they depended 
on investment conditions throughout the term of the policy. 
Ive found no evidence to corroborate Mr Ss recollections about the guarantee he said he 
saw in the newspaper advert which prompted him to buy his pension. And it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable for me to uphold the complaint based on Mr Ss recollections of a newspaper 
advert he saw over 30 years ago. Ive also found no evidence that the 1987 pension sale 
was unsuitable. Therefore I cant uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman