DRN-1194089
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a storm damage claim he 
made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, following heavy rainfall, Mr K noticed water had got into his home through the 
roof and caused damage. He got in touch with UKI to make a claim for the external and 
internal damage.
UKI agreed to cover the cost of a temporary roof fix and appointed a loss adjuster to inspect 
the damage to Mr Ks home. The loss adjuster didnt think there was any internal damage 
and wasnt able to inspect the roof. Mr K was unhappy with the loss adjusters handling of 
his claim and complained.
So UKI appointed a second contractor to investigate the damage to Mr Ks property. The first 
time they visited, they didnt inspect the roof, so they had to make a return visit.  The 
contractor didnt think the roof damage was down to the heavy rainfall. They found it was 
due to wear and tear, which isnt covered by the policy. On this basis, UKI turned down the 
claim for Mr Ks roof damage.
Mr K was unhappy with the schedule of works thatd been prepared to put right the internal 
damage and he was unhappy with the communication hed had from UKI. To move the claim 
forward, UKI appointed a personal insurance agent (PIA) to deal with Mr Ks internal damage 
claim. He agreed a settlement amount for the internal repairs and Mr Ks claim was cash 
settled. 
UKI also paid Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his 
claim had caused him. Mr K remained unhappy with how UKI had handled the claim and 
also that it had turned down his claim for the roof damage. So he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She accepted 
thered been wet storm conditions around the time of the claim. But she thought UKI had 
provided enough evidence to show the main cause of the damage to Mr Ks roof was wear 
and tear. This is specifically excluded by the policy. And she thought the £150 UKI had paid 
Mr K was enough to put things right for the service hed received.
Mr K disagreed with our investigator. He said the PIA had told him the roof works were 
covered. He said the water leaking in had come from a different roof area to the area 
identified as suffering from wear and tear. He told us hes had to take time off work and live 
in a water-damaged house. Mr K feels UKI should pay for another roof report to check the 
cause of the damage.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think UKI has treated 
Mr K fairly. Ill explain why.
Ill look at UKIs decision to turn down Mr Ks roof claim and the handling of his internal 
damage claim separately.
The roof damage claim
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
UKI accepts there was very heavy rainfall around the date of Mr Ks claim. Ive checked the 
local weather reports and I can see 94mm of rainfall fell on the date of Mr Ks claim. So I 
agree there were wet storm conditions on or around the date of Mr Ks claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Internal ingress of water getting in through a roof can be consistent with storm damage. And 
the overflowing of gutters might be consistent with very heavy rainfall over a short period of 
time. I havent seen enough evidence of damage to the roof itself to suggest it was 
consistent with storm damage though. 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
UKI says the damage to Mr Ks roof isnt covered because it was down to wear and tear and 
faulty workmanship. Mr Ks policy doesnt cover claims that are due to these causes. So I 
need to decide if the damage is most likely down to the wet storm conditions or down to 
something the policy doesnt cover
Ive looked closely at the extract from the contractors report that UKI has sent me, together 
with the photos the contractor took. Its report says:
The roof is covered in reflective stone chippings, these have not been used for 15-20 
yearsWe have scraped back the chippings and found slight faults with the green mineral 
up stand that goes under the roof tiles. Basically because there is no tilt fillet timber fitted, 
the felt is cracking in places and because of the chippings, the water cannot flow off the roof. 
Alsothere are two courses of tiles on top of each other. The damage is down to wear and 
tear/poor workmanship and not due to storm.
It seems to me that UKIs contractors undertook a full inspection of the roof and 
photographed what theyd observed. So I think UKI was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
contractors findings when deciding whether or not the roof damage claim was covered. 
I appreciate Mr K says the PIA told him the roof damage would be covered. The investigator 
asked UKI for a copy of the PIAs report. UKI said the PIA had been dealing with the internal damage claim and hadnt inspected the roof. So there wasnt a report it could send us with 
the PIAs findings.
Mr Ks also told us the damage wasnt in the same area as the bit of roof identified as 
suffering from wear and tear. But he told us he cant afford to get a surveyor to provide an 
independent report which supports this. So the only expert roofer evidence I have is from 
UKIs contractor. Without any expert evidence to counter UKIs findings, Im persuaded that 
the most likely cause of the roof damage was wear and tear. I think its most likely the heavy 
rainfall simply highlighted existing problems with the roof.
Overall, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage to Mr Ks roof. So I think it 
was fair for UKI to turn down Mr Ks roof damage claim.
The internal damage claim
Its clear that there were some issues with the way UKI initially handled Mr Ks internal 
damage claim. The first loss adjuster didnt think there was enough evidence of internal 
damage and I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Mr K. I also understand 
that there was some dispute about the schedule of works that were needed to put things 
right in Mr Ks property. This mustve caused additional worry to Mr K at an already stressful 
time.
But I have to bear in mind how UKI responded to Mr Ks concerns. It recognised how 
unhappy he was with how its contractors had handled his claim and appointed a PIA to take 
full responsibility for it. The PIA was able to agree an acceptable settlement figure with Mr K 
for the internal damage. And I was pleased to see he included a 50% contribution towards 
undamaged items which were part of a matching set. A cash settlement was agreed a month 
after Mr K first made the claim.
Looking at the claim in the round, while I do accept there were some issues with UKIs initial 
handling of the claim and its communications, it swiftly put things right. Unfortunately, it isnt 
unusual for a policyholder to suffer some degree of inconvenience following a claim and I 
cant fairly hold UKI responsible for the water damage Mr Ks home sustained. I think that 
UKI settled Mr Ks internal damage claim fairly and promptly. And I think it responded 
reasonably to his concerns about its contractors.  
So I think £150 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset its handling of his claim at the 
start caused him. This means I wont be telling UKI to pay him anything more.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.Lisa Barham
Ombudsman