DRN-1709410
The complaint
Ms L complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited hasnt paid a claim under her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms L holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA.
AXA authorised cover for a consultation with a specialist under Ms Ls policy. The specialist 
concluded that Ms L needed an urgent MRI scan but said, before she could have this, her 
metal dental retainers would need to be removed. 
AXA said the cost of removing the retainers wouldnt be covered under Ms Ls policy. So, Ms 
L paid for the removal, manufacture and replacement of new retainers herself. Ms L then 
complained to AXA, seeking reimbursement of the money shed paid. 
AXA looked into what Ms L had said and sent her a final response letter saying her claim 
wouldnt be paid because her policy doesnt cover orthodontist fees. 
Unhappy, Ms L brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think AXA had acted incorrectly by turning down the claim, but Ms L 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Ms L and I have no doubt the situation she found 
herself in must have been very frightening. But I dont think the circumstances of her claim 
are covered under her policy and I hope my explanation is helpful to Ms L in understanding 
why. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy say her membership covers eligible treatment 
which is defined as:
treatment of a disease, illness or injury where that treatment:
Falls within the benefits of this plan and is not excluded from cover by any 
term in this handbook
Is of an acute condition
Is conventional treatment
Under the heading What are the key things my membership doesnt cover?, Ms Ls policy 
says her plan doesnt cover any dental procedures. 
Ms Ls policy goes to on to say:
You do not have cover for treating dental problems or any routine dental care, this 
also means we will not pay any fees for dental specialists, such as orthodontists, 
periodontists, endodontists or prosthodontists. 
I understand the procedure Ms L is claiming for isnt routine dental care and wasnt needed 
as a result of a dental problem. The procedure also wasnt for cosmetic purposes. The 
medical evidence which Ms L has provided clearly states the procedure was necessary 
because her metal dental retainers would have distorted the imaging on her MRI scan. 
Ive read the newspaper article which Ms L has sent to us. Ms L could, potentially, have 
been very seriously ill so I can appreciate why it was extremely important to have the dental 
retainers removed and proceed with the MRI scan as soon as possible. 
But Ms Ls policy doesnt cover any dental procedures or the fees for any dental specialists. 
These are costs which AXA has decided that it doesnt wish to cover. This is the case 
regardless of the reason for the dental procedure. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy dont specifically address the situation she found 
herself in. I wouldnt expect them to, as it would be unrealistic for an insurance policy to 
outline every scenario which is and isnt covered. Ive considered what Ms L has said about 
the procedure constituting conventional treatment. While this may be the case, the 
procedure Ms L is claiming for doesnt meet the definition of eligible treatment under her 
policy because dental procedures and dental specialist fees are specifically excluded from 
cover. 
This means I dont think Ms Ls claim is covered under the terms and conditions of her policy 
with AXA, and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for 
me to ask AXA to accept her claim. 
Ive taken into account what Ms L says she was told about AXA potentially considering 
covering this sort of situation in the future. But whats relevant here is the terms and 
conditions of the policy Ms L held at the time she made her claim, so any comments AXA 
may have made in this regard dont change my decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms L, but I wont be asking AXA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman