DRN-4334946
The complaint
Mr J complains that Wise Payments Limited, trading as Wise, unfairly closed his account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. Rather, Ill summarise the key points:
Wise closed Mr Js account after he failed some of its internal checks  particularly 
around proof of income.
Mr J complained to Wise in February 2023. He said, in summary, that hed provided 
everything Wise should need to verify his income and that its decision to close his 
account was unreasonable. 
In response, Wise told Mr J that it had decided to keep his account closed. It said it 
couldnt provide him with a specific reason but, nonetheless, its terms and conditions 
permitted such action. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he contacted our Service for an independent review. He 
said Wise had caused him significant inconvenience. 
An Investigator here looked at what had happened and, ultimately, she upheld the 
complaint. She thought Wise had given Mr J unclear and confusing information about 
how its process worked. Our Investigator also noted that Wise had since said Mr Js 
account could have been reactivated, had all the information he provided been 
looked at together. But this hadnt happened. 
Overall, our Investigator thought Mr J had been caused inconvenience. So, she 
asked Wise to pay £150 compensation. 
Wise accepted our Investigators view, as did Mr J. However, since Wise accepted 
the findings on 30 June, no compensation has been paid  despite our Investigator 
chasing things several times. 
Therefore, Mr Js complaint has now been passed to me  as our Investigator said 
that it would  to make a final decision, so Mr J can take further action to enforce this 
decision if necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, as far as the merits of the complaint itself are concerned, theres nothing 
left in dispute here. From what Ive seen, given its acceptance of our Investigators view of 
the complaint, Wise agrees that it couldve handled things better.
For the avoidance of doubt, I agree with our Investigator. I think Wise couldve been more 
specific with Mr J when explaining its process. I also think that lack of clarity ultimately led to 
Mr Js account being closed when, if things had been clearer, he likely wouldve followed the 
steps Wise needed him to, so as to verify his income.
 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mr J did provide the information Wise required  Wise just didnt 
make it clear to him how he should best do that.
  
Overall, then, I think Wise has caused Mr J some inconvenience. And to that end; I find the 
£150 recommended by our Investigator to be a reasonable amount of compensation in the 
circumstances. 
Since Wise accepted our Investigators view of the complaint neither Mr J, nor our Service, 
have received any confirmation  or, for that matter, any response or indication at all  that 
the compensation agreed upon has been paid. So, to put things right, unless Wise can show 
evidence of having already done so prior to the date of this decision, I instruct it to pay Mr J 
£150 to recognise the inconvenience it caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint. I now require Wise Payments Limited, 
trading as Wise, to pay Mr J £150 compensation  unless it can show it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman