DRN-3409065
The complaint
Mr K complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly closed his loan and unfairly recorded adverse 
information on his credit file. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr K applied for a loan with TSB which included a cooling off period. On 11 
September 2020 Mr K called TSB and asked how to exercise his right to cancel the loan 
within the 14 day cooling off period. The call handler confirmed they could proceed on that 
basis and Mr K provided his account number. After security questions were confirmed, TSB 
gave Mr K figures relating to how much he needed to repay and explained he had 30 days. 
TSB also explained the repayment figure would slightly increase each day due to interest 
being applied. 
On 23 September 2020 Mr K called TSB again and discussed his loan account. During this 
call, TSB confirmed the loan had been withdrawn following his previous conversation and 
that it couldnt reverse the process. But TSB said Mr K could apply for a new loan to replace 
the initial loan which had been withdrawn. 
An application was completed whilst Mr K was on the phone. During the application Mr K 
advised the purpose of borrowing was for a property investment. At that point, TSB decided 
not to proceed. TSB has explained the reason for borrowing wasnt in line with its lending 
criteria. 
Mr K complained and TSB sent him a final response on 12 November 2020. TSB said it had 
followed Mr Ks instructions to withdraw from the loan on 11 September 2020 and fairly 
declined the follow up application on 23 September 2020. 
TSB continued to debit monthly payments from Mr K in line with the original loan agreement 
and referred the account to its collections team. Mr K repaid the outstanding balance in full in 
March 2021. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
TSB had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr K asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr Ks call with TSB on 11 September 2020. That was the last day Mr K 
couldve exercised his right to withdraw from the loan agreement. Mr K asked what hed 
need to do to arrange withdrawal and the call handler said he could arrange it. Mr K went on 
to give his account details and discussed repayment arrangements including the amounts 
required. I note TSB also gave Mr K details of the account number to use. Im satisfied TSB 
followed Mr Ks instructions when it processed the withdrawal from his loan. 
Mr K called back on 23 September 2020 and raised a complaint. Ive listened to the available 
call from that day which includes the application Mr K completed to replace the initial loan. 
Im satisfied that during this call, TSB confirmed the original loan had been withdrawn and 
couldnt be reinstated. Im satisfied TSB explained the funds from the original loan needed to 
be repaid within 30 days of the withdrawal. 
An option to resolve the matter was to complete a replacement loan application. But that 
didnt proceed because Mr K said he was borrowing for investment purposes. TSB says it 
wont lend on that basis as its not in line with its lending criteria. Ive listened to the 
application process and whilst Mr K also said the funds were partially to buy a car, I havent 
found TSB acted unfairly by declining to proceed. In my view, TSBs calls clearly explained 
the original loan had been withdrawn and the subsequent application declined. 
Mr K says TSBs decision to collect direct debit payments made it appear as if the loan had 
been reinstated on its original terms. But the loan payments were claimed as the balance 
remained outstanding. Im also conscious that TSB sent Mr K information about arrears on 
his loan and a final response confirming its position in November 2020. Whilst I can see TSB 
continued to take loan payments, Im not persuaded it misled Mr K or misrepresented the 
situation. 
As the loan wasnt repaid within 30 days of its withdrawal, TSB recorded adverse information 
with the credit reference agency. As there was no valid loan agreement in place during this 
time, Im satisfied the information its reported fairly reflects what happened.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but as Im satisfied TSB dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman