DRN-4108548
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VMMF) dealt with 
a claim hed made in relation to a mobile phone hed bought using a fixed sum loan 
agreement. 
What happened
Mr C bought a mobile phone using a fixed sum loan agreement with VMMF in August 2021. 
The phone came in a device bundle which cost £1,944 over three years, and it had a two-
year manufacturers warranty. 
In December 2022 Mr C contacted VMMF because of a fault with the phone. He said there 
was an issue with the LED lights when charging so he wanted to arrange a repair under 
warranty. He says the phone was in great condition and that there was no physical damage 
on it when he sent it off to be repaired at VMMFs nominated repair centre. However, the 
repair centre refused to repair the phone under warranty because it says there was crack 
damage. And that the warranty doesnt cover phones with that sort of damage  it had been 
voided. Mr C wasnt happy and said the phone wasnt damaged when he sent it in. He said 
the phone worked but kept going white and it sounded like there was something loose. He 
didnt want to pay £264 to have it repaired so VMMF returned it to him. 
Mr C contacted VMMF to complain. He sent in photos hed taken of the phone before 
sending it off for repair. But VMMF said there was nothing it could do. Mr C complained 
about the service given by VMMF and it eventually offered £100 compensation. But Mr C 
wasnt happy with that because it wouldnt cover the cost of repair. 
Unhappy with the resolution, Mr C brought the complaint to our service to consider. He 
thought VMMF should be responsible for the damage caused as he thinks it was done at its 
nominated repair centre. He thought it likely the repair centre pried open the phone to check 
it. Mr C says he knows a lot about phone repairs and wouldnt have sent it in if it wasnt 
covered by warranty. Hes unhappy VMMF wouldnt consider his photographic evidence. To 
resolve the complaint Mr C requests VMMF pay for the repairs and pay him compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience as well as the cost of the sim deal for the time the issue 
went on. 
Our investigator thought it wasnt unreasonable VMMF didnt consider or uphold a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She thought the issue was down to 
accidental damage rather than from the phone being of unsatisfactory quality. She thought 
had there been a manufacturing issue it wouldve been apparent much sooner. She didnt 
think shed seen enough evidence to determine when the phone was damaged. But she said 
VMMF was willing to offer £100 compensation for the service, which was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree. He provided time stamped photos he says shows the phone was in 
spotless condition before it was sent to the repair centre. He said VMMF should be 
responsible for the damage on the phone caused by either the courier or repair centre 
because they were acting on VMMFs behalf. 
Our investigator said she couldnt consider how the warranty was handled as this is a 
separate agreement to the fixed sum loan with VMMF. And having considered the evidence, 
she didnt think there was enough to change her opinion. Mr C didnt agree. He said the 
warranty was part of the credit agreement because it came with the phone. And he also said 
the repair centre gave conflicting information. Mr C paid to repair the phone himself. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr C and VMMF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr C paid for the phone using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
From reviewing the case I think there are two possible avenues of repair that I need to 
consider. VMMFs liability under section 75; and the warranty. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes VMMF responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and 
the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets 
out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods contract are 
not met. 
It's important to note that Im not considering a complaint against the supplier or the repair 
centre. Im considering a complaint against VMMF. So I have to consider VMMFs 
obligations as a provider of financial services  in this case its liability for breach of contract 
(or misrepresentation) under section 75. 
It seems that Mr C knows a lot about phones and how to repair them. Indeed  he ended up 
repairing the phone himself once VMMF returned it. I can see hes put forward some 
persuasive arguments. And it looks like he relies heavily on having a phone that works. So I 
can understand his disappointment that it took so long to sort out. 
What I first must consider is whether the phone was of satisfactory quality. Goods dont last 
forever. But I think theres an expectation when buying a new phone for such a large amount 
of money that itll be in perfect working order and be durable. The problem in this case is that 
I simply dont have enough evidence to determine what caused the fault. It happened over a 
year after purchase.
Like our investigator pointed out, had there been an inherent problem its likely to have 
manifested sooner. Mr C has shown us photos of the phone which indicate it was in decent condition considering its age. But hes also said it sounded like there was something loose. 
Ive got no evidence to further explain that. The only evidence I have is Mr Cs photos, his 
testimony and the repair centres photo and correspondence. Ive not seen enough to be 
able to determine the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was sold to Mr C. Or that 
the problems with it were present or developing at the point of sale. This means theres not 
enough evidence to demonstrate theres been a breach of contract. So I dont consider 
VMMF acted unfairly by not considering or upholding a claim under section 75. 
However, thats not the end of things. Mr C said he sent his phone off to be repaired under 
manufacturer warranty. And he thinks VMMFs repair centre damaged it. So the main thrust 
of the complaint is how the warranty claim was dealt with. But like our investigator pointed 
out, the warranty is from the manufacturer. Its a separate warranty. 
The fixed sum loan agreement does mention the warranty. It says: your Device/s will be 
covered by a warranty provided by the manufacturer. Please see your manufacturers 
warranty for more information. The issue I have is that I need to consider VMMFs liability as 
a provider of the fixed sum loan. The contract Mr C entered was for the supply of a phone 
that came with a warranty. This was financed by a fixed sum loan with VMMF. It did come 
with the warranty, but Mr C is unhappy with the claim process. 
For complaints like this, there needs to be a regulated activity having taken place for the 
Financial Ombudsman to have the power to consider it. We can consider the complaint 
about how VMMF dealt with the claim under section 75 because its about the regulated 
activity it carries out. Broadly, the regulated activities we can consider are those set out in 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has also set these out in the Dispute Resolution 
chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as DISP or the DISP rules). Paragraph 2.3.1 of 
DISP lists the complaints we can look at. A copy of the handbook can be found on the FCA 
website online. 
The regulated activity in question is that of exercising, or having the right to exercise, the 
lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement. The part of those rights and 
duties to which Mr Cs complaint relates is VMMFs duty to give Mr C benefit for a liability 
allegedly owed to him as borrower. This is why Ive considered its liability under section 75. 
But I dont think that directing Mr C to a repairer for a warranty repair (even though it was for 
repair of a product bought using a fixed sum loan) and the alleged issues off the back of that 
relate to a regulated activity. That might seem unfair to Mr C, but his issue relates solely to 
the goods, and not the regulated finance agreement. So while I sympathise with the 
situation, and think Mr C has put forward credible arguments, I dont find we can consider 
the complaint relating to how the warranty claim was handled. 
Therefore, I dont have the grounds to direct VMMF to reimburse Mr C for the repair it carried 
out. But VMMF has said its willing to pay Mr C £100 compensation for the service issues. 
Having listened to what Mr C has said about the service he received, and being hung up on 
twice, I consider £100 to be fair in all the circumstances. I should point out Mr C is free of 
course to pursue the complaint by other means, such as through the courts. 
My final decision
Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited has offered to pay Mr C £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited should pay Mr C £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman