DRN-4053334
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have not waived the 
interest on his credit card account.  
What happened
Mr H says that when his credit card account transferred over from the previous provider to 
Barclaycard, they assured him they would waive all of the interest. He has provided names 
and dates for when he spoke to individuals in Barclaycard over the years about this issue. 
However, to date he has only received a partial refund of some interest on the account. 
Barclaycard have confirmed they refunded August, September and October 2021 interest 
totalling £106.32 and waived the next three months of interest as a gesture of goodwill after 
Mr H contacted them. And they also credited his account with £40 compensation for any 
poor service he received when he was trying to deal with the issue. However, they could find 
no mention of them agreeing that they would not charge Mr H interest on the card and 
confirmed they had applied interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So, 
they did not feel they had made an error. 
Mr H referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They agreed 
that interest had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account and after 
looking at all the contact notes available, as well as the phone calls provided by Barclaycard, 
they could find no mention of Barclaycard agreeing not to charge Mr H interest. So they did 
not agree that Barclaycard had acted unreasonably and they felt the gesture of goodwill and 
the compensation that had already been paid was fair. 
Mr H did not agree with the outcome. As an informal agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclaycard has applied interest to Mr Hs account correctly, in line 
with the terms and conditions. And I think the action it has already taken to remedy the 
complaint is enough and I do not require it to do anything further. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Barclaycard have confirmed that they took over Mr Hs credit card account in 2010 and they 
are not aware of any promotional offer in place at the time that would have guaranteed no 
interest would be charged on the account during its lifetime. Even in the absence of notes 
from the time, on balance I think its unlikely Barclaycard would have offered 0% interest 
indefinitely to Mr H. As the interest and charges are a standard feature of credit card 
accounts.  
Ive looked over the notes on Mr Hs file and none of these indicate that he was told he 
would not be charged interest on his credit card account as standard. Mr H has mentioned 
general timeframes and individuals within Barclaycard he says he has spoken to about this 
issue of being promised 0% interest. And he has provided us with his relevant phone 
numbers throughout the years. With this information, Barclaycard has been able to send us 
the phone recordings it has available between themselves and Mr H. And its been 
confirmed that none of these phone calls mention Mr H being promised 0% interest. 
There is a note from September 2019, following a separate complaint Mr H made about a 
different issue. In this, following a conversation with Mr H, the case handler noted that Mr H 
wanted the promotional interest rate of 6.9% to remain on his account. Looking at this, I think 
it is clear that Mr H was aware he was paying interest on the account and agreed to do so at 
that stage. And there is no mention during the interaction of Mr H being promised 0% 
interest on his account. 
As I have seen no evidence that Mr H was told he would not be charged interest on his 
credit card account, I think it is therefore reasonable that Barclaycard charged him interest in 
line with the terms and conditions. And I do not agree that they have made an error in the 
circumstances. 
I therefore think that the three months of interest that was refunded, plus the three months of 
interest that was waived and the £40 compensation for poor customer service is fair. And I 
do not direct Barclaycard to take any further action to remedy this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman