DRN-3894741
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that they were forced under duress to take out a mortgage 
with Handelsbanken plc. They also say that the mortgage product was renewed under 
duress in 2016 and 2020 with increased rates of interest and threats of repossession if they 
didnt sign. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs S want Handelsbanken to acknowledge that the bank put 
them under duress, refund all the interest theyve paid, and pay them compensation of 
£100,000. 
Mr S has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of himself and Mrs S.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief, and I have also rounded up 
the figures where appropriate.
Mr S operated a limited company which had a loan with Handelsbanken of £196,000. Mr and 
Mrs S had given a personal guarantee for the loan. They also had a residential mortgage 
with Handelsbanken taken out in 2010, for about £350,000 on an interest-only basis. 
After the company failed, in 2013 Mr and Mrs S rescheduled their borrowing, on a two-part 
mortgage. The first part was the residential mortgage (consolidating £10,000 of personal 
unsecured debt) on an interest only mortgage of £354,000 over a five-year term, on a tracker 
rate of Handelsbankens base rate plus 1.25%. 
The second part of the mortgage was for £196,000 (to repay the company loan). This was 
taken out on a capital repayment basis over a 12-year term, with both Mr and Mrs S 
receiving independent legal advice before going ahead with it. The interest rate was 
Handelsbankens base rate plus 3%.
When the interest-only mortgage expired in 2018, various term extensions were granted by 
Handelsbanken to enable Mr and Mrs S to explore alternative repayment methods. In 
May 2019 Handelsbanken offered Mr and Mrs S a new mortgage of £353,000 over a term of 
five years nine months, on an interest-only basis. 
I understand that in 2020 Mr and Mrs S were able to arrange new borrowing with another 
bank and repaid the mortgage and loan to Handelsbanken.
In 2021 Mr S raised a complaint. He wasnt happy that, after his company failed, he had to 
rearrange the £196,000 loan onto a secured basis. Mr S said that the bank placed him and 
Mrs S under duress and without the benefit of legal advice.
Handelsbanken didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr S brought it to our service where an 
investigator looked at what had happened. 
After looking at what happened, the investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He was satisfied that Handelsbanken had provided mortgage advice about both parts of the 
new mortgage. He also noted that Mr and Mrs S had used their own solicitors to advise 
them, and that Mrs S had been given independent legal advice. 
The investigator explained that the interest rates reflected the nature of the borrowing, and 
that the terms of the loans, including the interest rates, were clearly set out in the 
documentation.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Mr S has reiterated all his previous points about why he considers Handelsbanken treated 
him and Mrs S unfairly. He feels that he and Mrs S were left with no option but to accept the 
mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by explaining that Im not looking at any of the issues relating to Mr Ss business 
banking with Handelsbanken. His limited companies no longer exist and this complaint is 
about the residential mortgage in any event.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The complaint is simpler than its been presented. The crux of the complaint is that Mr S 
says Handelsbanken forced him and Mrs S, under duress and at short notice, to rearrange 
his business borrowing onto their residential mortgage. Mr S says that the bank gave no 
mortgage advice, and that Mrs S wasnt given any legal advice about it. As a result, Mr S 
believes he and Mrs S were forced into agreeing to this without fully understanding the 
implications.
However, the documents show that Mr and Mrs S were given mortgage advice by 
Handelsbanken about the re-arrangement of both their residential mortgage and the 
business loan into the new two-part mortgage. This was followed up by a detailed suitability 
letter dated 12 September 2012. This letter, I am satisfied, covers all the information 
Handelsbanken was required to provide to Mr and Mrs S about the advice they were being 
given. It includes full details of the two-part mortgage, an explanation of the interest rate and how increases in interest rates could affect repayments. The letter also covers the 
consolidation of unsecured debt.
The letter records that Mr S anticipated that his new business would quickly generate 
surplus profits or cash flow to enable him to make lump sum payments to reduce the 
mortgage. Handelsbanken was also told that Mr and Mrs S owned a villa abroad, worth (in 
2012) £250,000 which they might consider selling in the future to enable them to reduce the 
mortgage.
Handelsbanken already had a legal charge over the property, because Mr and Mrs Ss 
residential mortgage was with the bank. However, due to the increase in borrowing and the 
fact that this consolidated business borrowing, it was necessary for new documentation to be 
put in place and for Mr and Mrs S to be given legal advice. This is standard practice for this 
type of loan.
The mortgage advice was given in September 2012, but the new mortgage didnt complete 
until March 2013, after all the legal formalities were in place. Im therefore not persuaded 
that there was duress or undue pressure put on Mr and Mrs S by Handelsbanken to rush 
them into the transaction; they had six months to decide if they wanted to go ahead or not, or 
to seek alternative lenders.
Im also not persuaded that there has been any error relating to the interest rates applied to 
each part of the mortgage. These are set out in the documentation. Handelsbanken is not a 
high street mortgage lender, and the rates it offers to customers reflect this. The two interest 
rates tracked movement in Handelsbankens base rate, and so were subject to fluctuation. 
I can see that when the interest-only part of the mortgage expired in 2018, Handelsbanken 
granted several term extensions to enable Mr and Mrs S to look for ways to repay this. When 
no alternative funding appeared to be available, Handelsbanken offered Mr and Mrs S a new 
mortgage, which they accepted. I think this was fair in all the circumstances. The bank 
wasnt under any obligation to offer any additional term extension, or to keep the mortgage 
on the same interest rate as it had previously been. Where the borrowing was re-scheduled, 
Handelsbanken was allowed to use the rates it had to offer at the time.
I appreciate that, once the interest-only part of the mortgage expired, Mr and Mrs S had 
difficulty finding another lender, because the capital repayment part of the mortgage still had 
some years left to run. But that was the contract to which Mr and Mrs S had agreed, and so 
Im not persuaded that it would have come as a surprise to them to find out that the loan still 
had several years left to run after the interest-only part of the mortgage came to an end. 
I also acknowledge that, because of the continuing existence of the repayment loan after the 
interest-only part of the mortgage ended, it was difficult for Mr and Mrs S to find a new 
lender. I can see from what theyd told Handelsbanken when the loan was arranged in 2012 
that Mr S had anticipated being in a position to reduce the mortgage substantially before the 
end date from company profits or by selling the villa. That doesnt appear to have happened, 
and so it was necessary for Mr and Mrs S to refinance the entire loan, which they did in 
2020.
I know that the last ten years have been difficult for Mr and Mrs S. No-one starts a business 
thinking it might fail, and so I do understand how upsetting this has been for Mr and Mrs S. 
But on the other hand, Handelsbanken offered facilities to the company, which Mr and Mrs S 
agreed to guarantee. That was part of the risk assessment that allowed Handelsbanken to 
offer finance to the company. There was, of course, a parallel risk  to Mr and Mrs S, 
because if the company failed, they had agreed they would take on responsibility for the 
company debt.So when the company failed, it wasnt unreasonable, in my opinion, for Handelsbanken to 
expect Mr and Mrs S to take on the risk theyd agreed to when they guaranteed the debts of 
Mr Ss company. Im satisfied that the proper legal formalities were followed, with Mr and 
Mrs S being given legal advice (Mrs S receiving  correctly  separate advice from Mr S). 
In all the circumstances, whilst I dont underestimate Mr Ss strength of feeling, Im unable to 
find that Handelsbanken has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman