DRN-3405382
The complaint
Mr C, on behalf of his business, C, complains that FDR Limited, LLC trading as First Data 
Merchant Solutions (FDR) who provided C with merchant acquiring services, did not stop 
an £800 refund carried out on their card terminal by a fraudster.
What happened
On 21 June 2021, two individuals made an order at Cs premises and paid via card on the 
card terminal. While one individual distracted the member of staff, the other carried out a 
refund on the card terminal onto the debit card for £800. 
Mr C says they realised the fraudulent refund had been carried out soon afterwards and they 
contacted FDR within half an hour of the transaction occurring. He says they were assured 
the refund would not be processed by the system, though the call handler could not 
personally do anything on the system to stop it at that time and he was advised to call the 
next day.
When Mr C called the following day, he was informed the payment had already been 
processed and could not be refunded. He raised a complaint on behalf of C as he did not 
think it should be penalised for fraudulent activity carried out against it. 
FDR sent their final response on 5 July 2021 in which they explained they were unable to 
stop a transaction from occurring on the payment terminal and there was nothing further they 
could do to help. Mr C disagreed on behalf of C and referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the information and said that when a payment is authorised on a 
terminal, it usually cant be stopped. They felt that the fraudulent refund had not been 
processed in line with the terms and conditions of the account, so didnt think FDR had made 
an error in not refunding it. 
M disagreed with this, Mr C said that a supervisor card should have been required to 
process the fraudulent refund, but it wasnt. And he felt FDR should have insurance to cover 
this kind of eventuality. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think FDRs decision not to refund the £800 is reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, I wanted to recognise that C, and therefore Mr C, has been the victim of fraud here, 
and I acknowledge how difficult this situation must have been. As this complaint is against 
FDR, I have focussed on their actions alone. 
FDR has sent a copy of the operating guide and the merchant conditions which would have 
been sent to C when they hired the terminal. This has a few clauses that I think are relevant 
to this complaint. Firstly, the operating guide clearly sets out that the terminal should not be 
left unattended, for example, where fraudsters could have easy access. While I do 
appreciate that the fraudster was supposedly paying for goods, I have to consider that the 
processing of the fraudulent refund would have taken some time. However, the fraudster 
was left unattended for long enough to process the refund without their actions being 
detected. And this is not something FDR had any control over, but the employee of C did.
The operating guide, as well as the terms and conditions, also set out that the merchant is 
only permitted to make a card refund when the original sale was on the same card. In this 
case, there was no original sale on the card, so the refund has not been processed in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. The operating guide and the terms and 
conditions put the onus on the merchant to ensure the correct card is being used. And while 
I understand that the fraudster has carried out the transaction themselves without the 
merchant knowing, ultimately, I dont think FDR can be held responsible for this, so I dont 
think they should refund the £800. 
Mr C has said that the fraudulent transaction should have been stopped prior to it being 
processed and that it was an unusual amount for a refund considering the type of business 
C is. FDR has said it would not have been able to stop the transactions from occurring on 
the terminal. Ive thought about this, and even if FDR was able to stop the transaction, I have 
to consider the fact that merchant error can occur and while the amount was high for C, it 
wasnt excessive overall. So, I would not have expected FDR to stop the refund prior to it 
being processed. 
I note Mr C has also mentioned that C was provided with a supervisor card to accompany 
the terminal, which could be used as an extra level of security for refunds and other 
transactions. But the fraudster manager to process the refund without the supervisor card. I 
cant see this point has previously been raised with FDR for comment, so I wont go into 
much detail here. But from what I can see from user guides available on their website, the 
supervisor card can be used for extra security on a refund if its been set up on the terminal. 
So, this does not appear to be a guaranteed security set up for all terminals and is unlikely to 
have been set up on Cs terminal considering the fraudster was able to process the refund 
without it. 
Overall, Im satisfied that FDRs decision not to refund the £800 is fair in the circumstances 
and I dont think its made an error. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Cs complaint against FDR Limited, LLC trading as First Data Merchant 
Solutions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman