DRN-3796617
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) didnt support him.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card from Virgin. In June 2020 he had a limit of £12,700 and the balance
was then £7,679. Mr Bs self-employed income was affected by the pandemic and in April
2020, Virgin agreed to a three-month payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support
scheme. This was then extended by a further three months in July 2020. In line with the
scheme, interest was charged but no payments were made. In December 2020, Virgin
agreed a 30-day beathing space arrangement  so no payments were needed for a month.
Virgin asked for an income and expenditure form. This wasnt returned by Mr B.
Throughout, there were problems as Mr B failed Virgins security checks when he called  or
when Virgin called him. As a result of the failed security checks, Virgin blocked Mr Bs
account  and it remains blocked. No payments were received so that on 4 May 2021, Virgin
sent Mr B Notices of Sums in Arrears in February 2021 and March 2021. And then sent a
Default Notice which asked for the payment of £1,313.07 by 1 June 2021. Mr S complained
to Virgin in April 2021 and then brought his complaint to our service in July 2021. No
payments have been made pending the outcome of his complaint, but interest has continued
to be applied  and as at September 2022, the balance is £11,955.78 and the arrears 
totalled £5,797.37.
Mr B complains that Virgin didnt support him when he was in financial difficulty. He had
difficulty getting through security each time he tried to speak to Virgin and so no meaningful
way forward could be agreed. He had difficulty in speaking to Virgin as he was a lorry driver
and couldnt take or make calls easily. He said a call-back was arranged for a Saturday in
October 2020 to discuss his situation. Virgin didnt fulfil that - and he says if they had done,
everything wouldve been different. He said he sent Virgin his ID&V documents in April 2021
to get verified so he could speak to them, but this hadnt worked either. He said he was
vulnerable - he had suffered a big decline in income though Covid. His personal 
circumstances were also very bad. He had gone through a painful divorce and often slept in
his car or office.
Virgin said it was unfortunate that Mr B couldnt get through security procedures but they
were there to safeguard customers and prevent fraud. They said they couldnt relax these.
They couldnt identify that a call back had been arranged in October 2020, but accepted Mr
Bs version of events and for that, paid compensation of £200.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin acted reasonably. He felt that
Virgin had supported Mr B by way of the payment holidays. But after that, he accepted that
Virgin didnt consider that Mr B was vulnerable  and therefore didnt think that an interest-
free arrangement needed to be applied to Mr Bs account from February 2021.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
We have a situation here where  because no payments have been made since March
2020, and because there has been a hold on any action by Virgin since Mr B brought his
complaint to us in July 2021  the balance on his account is significant (£11,995), as are the
arrears (£5,797.37). Interest has been building up since the start of the first payment holiday
in April 2020  and it hasnt been paid. So - this is a serious situation  and to leave it
without a way forward isnt in anyones interest  neither Mr B nor Virgin. So - this
provisional decision seeks to resolve matters.
It's clear that Virgin did support Mr B when his income was affected by the pandemic.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including
Virgin, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit
cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two
payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020.
I can see that Virgin gave Mr B two payment holidays totalling six months  through to
October 2020. Interest was still debited to his account in line with the scheme.
After that time, businesses continued to have an obligation to treat customers in financial
difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses
like Virgin should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For
example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments, or defer them,
and allow customers more time to repay their debt.
Mr B has said that he had arranged an appointment with Virgin for a Saturday morning in
October 2020  to discuss his situation. Virgin  in their final response - said they found no
record of that. But I have seen in their notes that an appointment was arranged for 24
October 2020 at 11.30am. There are no notes of any such conversation having taken place
 so, I assume the call didnt happen  this is what Mr B has testified. Mr B has said that if
Virgin had called him as promised, things wouldve worked out differently  as an
arrangement wouldve been agreed upon. Obviously, its not possible for me to say if that
wouldve been the case or not  but its unfortunate that Virgin didnt fulfil the appointment.
After that time, Virgin sought to support Mr B in line with the guidance for customers in
financial difficulty - and gave him a 30-day breathing space in December 2020  and sent
him an income & expenditure form to complete. They did that so they could assess what
longer term support he needed. That was a reasonable thing to do  but unfortunately, he
didnt return the form or contact Virgin about it at that time.
Mr B has said he failed Virgins security checks and so couldnt speak to them. Ive seen that
was the case on several occasions. Im not going to interfere with Virgins security processes
 thats not our role. But the result was that Mr Bs account was blocked  so that no
meaningful conversations took place. I can see that in April 2021, Mr B sent in ID&V
documents to try to establish his credentials, but Virgin admit these were not acted upon and
were sent to the wrong department. And so  the log jam appeared to continue.
I then looked at Mr Bs complaint letter to Virgin in April 2021. It described how stressful the
debt had become for him; he couldnt sleep at night; his marriage had failed; he was
sometimes living in an office or sleeping in his car. I then reviewed Virgins notes on Mr Bs
account and in February 2021, they recorded counselling, poor mental healthqueued to
vulnerableseparated from toxic marriagelives in an officethings are dire. Please work
in vulnerable. I have seen that there was some debate between our investigator and
Virgin about whether Mr B was vulnerable or not  but for me, it is clear he was and thatVirgin were made aware of that in February 2021  and certainly by April 2021. This
wouldve meant that he shouldve got appropriate support from that time in the form of a
payment plan with zero interest  in line with the guidance I have quoted.
On the other hand, Mr B hasnt helped himself  by not returning the income & expenditure
form; and in all honesty  not trying to deal positively with his debt, or Virgin, since that time.
And so  we have a situation here which needs dealing with in a fair and reasonable
manner; recognising there were errors on both sides.
It seems to me fair to say that Virgin shouldve realised that Mr B was vulnerable in February
2021 and needed support then. I (and Virgin) dont have the benefit of an income &
expenditure form  so we cant be confident about Mr Bs circumstances as they were then.
But it seems likely, on the balance of evidence, that if a meaningful conversation had taken
place, then Mr B wouldve been supported with a payment plan with no payments; and at
zero interest. And therefore, I am asking Virgin to re-work Mr Bs account to remove the
interest applied since February 2021  and then contact Mr B to agree a mutually acceptable
repayment plan for the remaining debt.
It is also Mr Bs responsibility to engage meaningfully with Virgin to make this happen. This
will include responding to Virgins requests for information from him (e.g. an up to date
income & expenditure form) and to take time out from his job to speak to Virgin and ensure a
viable payment plan is agreed. The terms of this will depend on what Mr Bs circumstances
are - i.e. whether it is interest-free or at a commercial interest rate. That is for Virgin to
decide, having regard to the FCAs guidance on customers in financial difficulty.
I have considered whether a payment of compensation to Mr B is appropriate  and I dont
think it is  because as Ive explained, I think he  should bear some responsibility for what
has happened.
I hope that both Virgin and Mr B will see this as a practical way forward.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Virgin didnt respond. Mr B agreed with the provisional decision and made some further 
comments about his personal circumstances that led to his vulnerable situation.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin didnt reply. And Mr B reinforced what his personal circumstances were  and I had 
already reflected those in the provisional decision. And so  my final decision is the same as 
the provisional decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must:
Re-work Mr Bs account to remove debit interest from 1 February 2021.
Contact Mr B to agree a mutually acceptable repayment plan for the remaining 
balance  having regard to Mr Bs current personal circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman