DRN-3064018
The complaint
Mr C complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI), who declined to change a 
replacement phone, following a claim under his gadget insurance. 
 
What happened
 Mr C contacted AGI to make a claim for his damaged phone. AGI accepted the claim and 
Mr C sent his phone for repair. AGI were unable to repair the phone so sent him a 
replacement. 
Mr C contacted AGI as the replacement phone, had developed a fault. AGI collected the 
phone, tested it but couldnt find any faults and returned the phone to Mr C.
A few months later, Mr C reported that the phone had developed other faults and returned 
this to AGI. It inspected the phone again, and again found that there were no issues with the 
phone and returned it back to Mr C.
Mr C was unhappy that AGI had returned the same phone and raised a complaint. AGI said 
that as it was unable to find fault with the phone, Mr C should get the phone diagnostically 
tested by the phone manufacturer. And if it found fault with the phone, it would reconsider 
the decision. 
Mr C didnt send a diagnostic report but told AGI what the faults were. He sent AGI a video 
and screen shot of the faults which were the screen freezing, the screen going blank  
sometimes mid call and the apps displaying upside down. Mr C asked for a replacement 
phone, which AGI declined and he raised a complaint with our service.
One of our investigators consider the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Her view 
was that Mr C had provided enough evidence to show that the phone was faulty. She said 
that because the faults were intermittent, this was likely the reason why AGI were unable to 
find fault when it checked. She recommended that AGI replace the phone and compensate 
Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Both parties didnt agree with the view. Mr C said that he had suffered the inconvenience of 
having a faulty phone for nearly a year and chasing AGI. He said that at a minimum his 
compensation should be £500 with a replacement working phone. He would be willing to 
accept an upgraded top of the range version of his phone, without compensation as an 
alternative.
AGI said that it had had the phone back twice and twice couldnt find fault with the phone. It 
advised Mr C to get an independent review of the phone which he didnt do. So, both parties 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, I agree with the investigators findings for 
broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
I have considered the terms and conditions of the policy. It stipulates that AGI (after a claim 
has been accepted) will replace a damaged phone with the same make, model and memory 
size. Where it decides to replace a phone, it may do so with a remanufactured (not brand 
new) phone. Im satisfied that AGI chose to do this so fulfilled its obligation under the policy. 
However, Mr C experienced issues with the phone. He described the fault with the phone as 
a freezing screen, blank screen (sometimes during calls) and apps being upside down. Mr C 
did say that the faults were intermittent. 
AGI examined the phone on two separate occasions and on both occasions found no faults 
with the phone. It advised Mr C to get the phone diagnostically tested by the phone 
manufacturer to see if it could find fault with the phone. 
Mr C didnt do this but did send AGI videos and a screenshot of the faults with the phone.  I 
have reviewed the videos and seen the screenshot sent. I think that these do show that the 
phone had faults and that Mr C had demonstrated them.
I also think that its more likely than not that when AGI inspected the phone  given the 
nature of the fault being intermittent, that its reasonable that the faults didnt display when 
the phone was checked. Additionally, AGI confirmed that their engineers are accredited to 
the level of the phone manufacturer and checked the phone to the manufacturers 
specification. Consequently, I dont think Mr C needs to evidence the faults further, by 
carrying out an independent review of the phone.
The policy terms allow AGI to either repair or replace the phone. Mr C said the faults with the 
phone happened soon after AGI had sent it to him. As Im satisfied Mr C has evidenced the 
faults, I think it is fair and in line with the terms of the policy, that AGI replace Mr Cs phone 
with a working one.
I have next considered the level of compensation. I understand that Mr C feels that AGI 
ought to compensate him more for the inconvenience caused as he said that the phone has 
been faulty for some time. But the faults he has evidenced occurred intermittently, so I cant 
be satisfied that the phone didnt work all the time.
I also consider that AGI did fulfil its obligations under the policy, that is, replacing Mr Cs 
damaged phone with a remanufactured phone, albeit that that phone had issues. Taking all 
of this into consideration, I do think that £100 for the inconvenience caused is fair and 
reasonable. 
 
Putting things right
To put matters right, AGI should replace Mr Cs phone with a working one and pay him £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to replace Mr Cs phone with another phone as 
per the policy terms.
Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay Mr C £100 for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If Assurant General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman