DRN-2273448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2000 in connection with a 
joint mortgage arranged by Mr and Mrs H. The policy covered Mr H if he couldnt work 
because of unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think Yorkshire Building Society recommended the 
policy to Mr and Mrs H, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did Yorkshire Building Society give Mr and Mrs H information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed 
choice about the insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs H are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs H dont consider Yorkshire Building Society gave them a proper choice about 
buying the PPI. They say the letter sent to them by the society put them under pressure to 
buy the policy. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs H have said.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application included a section about PPI, which encouraged them 
to think about how they would cover their mortgage repayments if they couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident. If Mr and Mrs H decided to take the PPI, it was free for the 
first six months. But the same section also indicated that it was possible to turn down the PPI 
if Mr and Mrs H didnt want it. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs H had to complete a separate application form to apply for the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs H could also choose the level of cover they wanted, and they selected 
unemployment cover only for Mr H. 
From what Ive seen, there was nothing in their mortgage offer to suggest that taking the PPI 
was a condition of getting the mortgage. 
So overall, Im satisfied that Yorkshire Building Society made Mr and Mrs H aware they had 
a choice about buying the PPI. 
The cost of the policy was set out in the mortgage offer letter Yorkshire Building Society sent 
to Mr and Mrs H before their mortgage completed. So it seems Mr and Mrs H knew how 
much they would be paying for the policy once the free period ended, and found it 
acceptable. 
There is nothing to suggest that Mr H didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the policy 
when it was taken out. And his circumstances dont suggest he wouldve been caught by any 
conditions limiting the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people). 
So I dont think he and Mrs H needed better information about the things the policy might not 
have covered. 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt need the PPI because Mr H wouldve received good employer 
benefits if hed been made redundant. But Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Mr and 
Mrs H in connection with the policy, so it didnt have to check whether the policy was suitable 
for Mr H. 
But even if it had given Mr and Mrs H advice, Im not persuaded the policy was unsuitable for 
Mr H. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs employer benefits and wouldve 
allowed Mr and Mrs H to use those benefits to cover other expenses. So I think the policy 
wouldve been useful to Mr and Mrs H if things went wrong.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the cover (knowing they didnt have to). 
And given the policy provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I 
dont think they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking the policy 
out) if they had been better informed.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021. 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman