DRN-3975023
The complaint
Mr B complains about various matters affecting instructions to St Jamess Place UK plc 
(SJPUK) about an investment bond held in trust.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr B and two family members  for anonymity Ill call them T2 and T3  were 
trustees of a loan trust. The loan that set up the trust was owed to one of the trustees  T2.
The trust deed identified family members  including Mr B and T3  who could benefit from 
the trust. But the trustees could decide how much of a share any one beneficiary got. This is 
whats called a discretionary trust.
The investment held by the trust was administered by SJPUK. Historically, an adviser linked 
with SJPUK had given the trustees advice about the investments. But by mid-2019, the 
trustees were using a different financial adviser, not directly linked with SJPUK.
The trustees adviser has told us they were in contact with SJPUK and a lawyer about how 
to transfer the trusts assets to some of its beneficiaries in a tax efficient way. The adviser 
says they received some forms from SJPUK to do that.
The contact led to the trustees adviser sending SJPUK some signed documents in early 
December 2019  a deed of waiver, and a deed of appointment. The templates for these 
deeds clearly originated from SJPUK.
The deed of waiver Ive seen says T2 waived her claim on the loan shed given to the trust. 
But it didnt say shed stop being a trustee. From what I can see, T2 remains a trustee.
The deed of appointment Ive seen says it was appointing an absolute interest in the trust 
fund to three beneficiaries. It seems to change the discretionary trust to something more like 
an absolute trust. That is, the trust still owns the assets, but the trustees must now account 
to specific beneficiaries for a specific share of the trusts funds.
Immediately after these deeds were logged with SJPUK, Mr B, T3 and the other appointed 
beneficiary sent instructions to SJPUK saying they each wanted to encash their investments. 
But SJPUK rejected those instructions. 
Their contact about that appears to have been with the SJPUK linked adviser until late 
January 2020. At that point, SJPUK appear to have contacted T2, which led to T3 getting in 
contact with them.
Mr B meanwhile was in contact with the SJPUK linked adviser. Weve considered a 
complaint about their involvement separately. But that contact seems to have led to Mr B 
sending SJPUK a letter in February 2020. This included a new instruction  from Mr B and 
T3  to encash the investments and pay the proceeds to T3. And the instruction referred to a 
deed of variation removing T2 as a trustee.
No one has been able to show us that deed of variation. Last time I concluded it was likely it 
didnt actually exist, and the trustees were instead referring to the deed of waiver. 
After receiving the February letter, SJPUK went to the SJPUK linked adviser to ask for the 
deed of variation. In correspondence from mid-March, the linked adviser sent the deeds of 
waiver and appointment to SJPUK. The encashment went ahead after that, with the 
surrender date as 19 March 2020.
The delays caused by all of this  combined with the global events of 2020  meant the 
value of the investments had fallen by the time they were encashed. The back-and-forth also 
caused trouble and upset for Mr B and the trustees. And the encashment was by the 
trustees, rather than by the individual beneficiaries. A complaint to SJPUK followed.
In their first response, SJPUK didnt uphold the complaint. They explained theyd needed the 
deed of variation removing T2 as a trustee to proceed. SJPUK indicated theyd been sent 
the deed of variation by the linked SJPUK adviser in mid-March.
A further response from SJPUK highlighted they hadnt advised the trustees about the 
transfer of ownership of the investments. They noted theyd provided the trustees adviser 
with forms, but felt it was for that adviser to make sure the forms did what was intended. 
I wrote last time that I planned to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I found it was reasonable SJPUK 
hadnt accepted the instructions sooner, given the deeds hadnt removed T2 as a trustee. 
But I found SJPUK could have communicated the problem better than they did. 
I felt that with a reasonable level of service the trusts investment would have been 
surrendered sooner. So I said SJPUK should compensate the trust for the difference in value 
that would have achieved. I also said SJPUK should pay Mr B £300 compensation, to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset caused for all of the trustees. 
In response, SJPUK repeated their understanding of the complaint and sent us further 
copies of their complaint response letters. This has added nothing to my review, as Id 
already factored those letters and SJPUKs understanding in to my provisional decision. 
Mr B responded with further comments about the timeline of events. He felt SJPUK had 
been telling him the withdrawal was fine to go ahead as early as December 2019. And he felt 
their complaint handling and responses had added to the confusion and disappointment for 
the trustees. But he said hed accept my provisional decision. 
With these responses, Im now ready to make a final decision for this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains as I set out last time. Ill repeat the key details, with 
minor changes to show how Ive factored in the latest responses from Mr B and SJPUK.
The deeds Ive mentioned above didnt achieve what the trustees and their adviser were 
aiming for. They didnt transfer ownership of the investments away from the trustees. And 
they didnt remove T2 as a trustee.
So I find it reasonable SJPUK didnt act on the December 2019 instructions. Without T2 the 
instructions lacked the formal authorisation of all trustees  the owners of the investment. I note Mr Bs latest comments about being told the instruction would be followed. But I cant 
see that in the correspondence or contact notes from the time. SJPUK acknowledged receipt 
of the deeds. But stopped short of saying ownership had passed to the beneficiaries. 
I appreciate some of what Mr Bs said though. SJPUK didnt have any other deeds between 
then and March 2020. So if they had enough to act in March, it must follow they could have 
acted in December.
But it appears SJPUK thought they had something new in March 2020  a deed of variation.
Our investigation has asked both sides of the complaint for the deed of variation referred to 
in the trustees February 2020 letter. The fact no ones shown it to us leads me to conclude  
more likely than not  that no such deed exists.
SJPUK have said they saw it though  in March 2020. They say their linked adviser gave it 
to them. But when Ive looked at the correspondence between SJPUK and their linked 
adviser in March 2020, it only refers to the deed of waiver and the deed of appointment. That 
tells me SJPUK are wrong to think they ever saw a deed of variation.
From that, I find SJPUK made a mistake in March 2020 when they acted on the February 
instruction. They were still in the same position they were in following the December 2019 
instruction  they hadnt seen agreement from all of the trustees to encash the investments. 
If the service had been reasonable, SJPUK would instead have rejected the February 2020 
instruction, until it was agreed with T2.
With that said, I dont see a detriment to that mistake. Im happy to accept that T2 would 
likely have agreed to the instruction if SJPUK had insisted on confirming it with her. I say that 
because correspondence Mr Bs sent us shows she was aware of and agreeable to the plan 
Mr B and T3 seem to have been following.
Had SJPUK not mistakenly accepted the deeds from December 2019 as a deed of variation, 
then the encashment process could have taken longer. I say this because it appears the 
trustees would either have had to have T2 provide her agreement to it, or to have had an 
actual deed of retirement or deed of variation prepared. Either would have taken time to get.
So then Ive thought about whether its fair to have SJPUK compensate the trustees for the 
time it took to have the investments encashed. While I can see an error in what SJPUK did 
here, it seems to aid the timescale, not prolong it.
And  coming back to my starting point  the ultimate problem wasnt with SJPUK refusing 
the instructions. It was that the documents the trustees and their adviser were using didnt do 
what they thought they did.
Last time, I considered who was responsible for the deeds not achieving what was intended. 
SJPUK werent the ones advising the trustees about how to do things. SJPUKs role was to 
administer the investments  to follow instructions from the trustees or their adviser.
It seems likely the trustees adviser asked for the forms needed to transfer ownership of the 
investments from the trust to the beneficiaries  that was the plan, after all. So its a little odd 
SJPUK sent a form that appoints a beneficial interest instead.
But ultimately, the SJPUK produced templates used here do  on close inspection  set out 
the extent of what theyll achieve. Id have expected that to do enough to tell a professional 
adviser what they would achieve before completing them. So I find SJPUK arent responsible for the failure in the deed paperwork. Given that failure, it 
was reasonable for SJPUK not to act on the instructions. And I cant see a point when they 
were in a position to do otherwise.
But then theres the communication in this case. I can see SJPUK were using their linked 
adviser as something of a go-between with the trustees. That seems to follow the trustees 
seeing no great distinction between SJPUK and their linked adviser. I can understand that, 
as the trading names are very similar.
Thats meant it took a long time  about six weeks  for the trustees to be told there was a 
problem with the December 2019 instruction. SJPUK could have reduced that period if 
theyd done more to contact the trustees or their separate adviser directly.
From late January 2020 onwards, SJPUK did enough in my view to tell the trustees that the 
lack of an instruction from all the trustees was an issue. That stopped short of saying the 
deeds werent doing what had been intended. But it should have been enough for the 
trustees or their separate adviser to think about why a trustee instruction was still needed, 
and so arrive at the conclusion there was some problem with the deeds.
Although Mr Bs said he was told in late January 2020 that the payment would be made, I 
again cant see thats reflected in the correspondence or SJPUKs contact notes from the 
time. And if that had been the case, it wouldnt really have made sense for the trustees to 
change their instruction in February. 
While the actions taken if thered been clearer communication may not have been too 
different, the timing of them could have been. With a more rapid reply to the December 2019 
instruction, the February 2020 letter may have been submitted earlier. And in turn, the 
encashment it led to could have happened sooner than 19 March.
Putting things right
How much sooner is then the key question for putting things right. 
SJPUKs records say they received the December 2019 instructions on 18 December. It 
would have taken some time for them to look at the instructions, find there was an issue, and 
then set out what that was before going back to the trustees. I find five working days would 
have been a reasonable amount of time, particularly with the contact being close to the 
festive period when key people might be away.
That would mean SJPUK telling the trustees there was a problem sometime around the end 
of December, maybe early January with the Christmas post. The trustees actually received 
notification about four weeks later, at the end of January 2020. That delay could have been 
avoided if SJPUK had provided a reasonable level of service.
Taking that four-week period from the actual events leads me to conclude the surrender of 
the investments could have happened by 20 February 2020. So to put things right, I find 
thats the value the trust should receive.
Ive decided not to include any interest on that amount. Thats the sort of remedy Id direct 
when someone has been without the use or opportunity to profit from some money. Here, 
the only use it appears the trustees were planning to make of the money was to pass it to 
the beneficiaries. So any opportunity to gain from the money has been lost by the 
beneficiaries of the trust, not the trust itself.
Those beneficiaries arent eligible to bring a complaint to our service, even where theyve suffered a loss. So Im not going to direct interest be added to the delayed trust funds. 
Ive thought about the non-financial impact on the trustees. Financial compensation can 
acknowledge where theres been upset because of a failing by SJPUK. But Ive had to be 
careful to consider what failings here have caused the most upset to the trustees.
Some of what they feel is because they couldnt encash the investments in December 2019. 
Even with a fully reasonable level of service from SJPUK, I find that wouldnt have been 
possible, given the problems with the deeds. 
But there have been mistakes by SJPUK, and those left the trustees feeling upset and like 
theyve had to work harder than needed to get things done. A modest payment here of £300 
to the trustees is suitable. It acknowledges theres been an impact on them, but also 
accounts for not all of the problems here being SJPUKs responsibility. 
I direct this be paid to one of the trustees  Mr B unless SJPUK are told otherwise  for them 
to decide how best to divide it between them.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint about St Jamess Place UK plc. To put things right, 
they should:
Pay to the trust itself the difference between the surrender values of its investments 
on 20 February and 19 March.
Pay to one of the trustees  Mr B unless theres an agreement otherwise  a total of 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to all the trustees.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trustees of the 
Mrs A B & Trustees Loan Trust to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman