DRN-3674542
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Financial Administration Services Limited (FAS), trading as Fidelity 
International, rejected her application for an account and failed to disclose information.
What happened
In April 2021, Mrs T applied to FAS for an account. Shortly after the application for the 
account was accepted, FAS discovered information held on a fraud prevention database 
Cifaswhich led to it rejecting Mrs Ts application.
Mrs T complained to FAS and submitted a subject access request asking it to disclose 
information it had received from Cifas, along with any other personal information it held. 
FAS responded to Mrs Ts complaint not upholding it as it felt it had closed the account in 
line with the terms and conditions. It provided Mrs T with details on how to contact Cifas for 
information held on its database. It also asked that an alternative form of identity document 
be provided if she wished to proceed with a subject access request for personal information 
FAS held on her.
Mrs T remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to our service for an independent 
review. An Adjudicator considered all the evidence provided by both parties but concluded 
that FAS hadnt made an error.
In summary, they felt that FAS had closed the account fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions. They also felt that FASs request for another form of identity document was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs T disagreed. She felt that as FAS specifically said in its letter that it had received 
information from Cifas, she was entitled to that information. She also didnt agree that 
information had been recorded with Cifas as this wasnt displayed on her credit report.
As Mrs T disagreed with the Adjudicators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Businesses have the right to terminate a relationship with a customer as long as this is done 
fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Here, FAS received information from a third-party fraud prevention database while 
processing Mrs Ts application. FAS went even further here to ensure the information itd 
seen was accurate by calling the business that had loaded it. This contact confirmed the 
information itd seen on the database was accurate and it decided to refuse the application. 
The terms and conditions of the account, which Mrs T agreed to when opening it, state:
1.3 opening your account(f) These Terms come into force when we accept your 
Application. This is normally on the Business Day we receive it. At our discretion, we may 
refuse any Application or other instruction, without providing a reason for doing so.
Considering all the above information, I find that FAS has acted reasonably here. It took 
information it had found using a third-party database, confirmed this with the business that 
had recorded it to ensure it was accurate and refused the application in line with its terms 
and conditions.
Furthermore, it took the additional step of informing Mrs T that itd relied on information 
recorded on the Cifas database and provided her with details on how and where she could 
go to obtain this information.
Information disclosure
As Mrs T is aware, she does have the right to request personal information FAS holds on her 
which can be obtained through, what is commonly referred to as, a subject access request. 
However, the main information Mrs T wants disclosed isnt held by FAS.
Mrs T wants the information that is held on the Cifas database that FAS has relied upon to 
make its decision: but that information isnt FASs to disclose. FAS has already provided 
information on how Mrs T can apply to Cifas for information it holds on her despite not being 
obliged to do so.
Mrs T, and her representative, have argued that the letter they were sent from FAS 
specifically stated that itd received information from Cifas, meaning it held the information 
in one format or another and should be disclosed. However, information can be received 
verbally over the telephone and visually through witnessing it on a third-party database. This 
doesnt necessarily mean it has been recorded or that Mrs T is entitled to the data through 
an information request under the relevant data rights laws. 
Nevertheless, FAS was unable to deal with Mrs Ts subject access request as she hadnt 
provided the relevant identity documents it had asked for in its formal response. As it was 
unable to verify Mrs Ts identity through the photocopy of her passport provided, I dont find it 
unreasonable that it asked for an alternative form of identity document prior to disclosing 
personal information. As, at the time of complaint, Mrs T hadnt provided this proof of 
identity, I dont find FAS has made an error when dealing with her request.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman