DRN-4047299
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform (Platform) 
treated him when they repossessed his home.
What happened
In 2005 Mr H took out an interest only buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Platform of around 
£85,500 that was secured over a property Mr H owned and lived in. The term ended in 
around June 2015. In 2019 Platform got a possession order against Mr H when he failed to 
redeem the mortgage. And in 2022 they enforced the order and evicted him.
Mr H raised several concerns about the way Platform acted. He felt Platform didnt allow 
enough time for his investments to pay the mortgage off or for him to find somewhere else to 
live before they evicted him. He complained about the charges Platform raised to clean and 
clear his property, change the locks and re-home his pet. He thought theyd undervalued his 
property before selling it. And he was unhappy Platform wouldnt let him rent the property 
back from them and required him to carry on making his contractual monthly mortgage 
payments (CMP) until the property was sold.
Platform didnt uphold his complaint. In summary, they said theyd told him the property 
needed to be unoccupied when they took possession; the mortgage contract allowed them 
to remove the contents at Mr Hs cost and risk; the charges theyd raised were reasonable; 
they were entitled to rely on the professional valuation theyd got for the property; it wouldnt 
be appropriate to rent the property back to him as they had to sell it; and his mortgage 
contract said he had to pay the CMP until the mortgage had been redeemed.
Since Mr H didnt agree, he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator thought Platform had acted reasonably and treated Mr H fairly. He thought 
theyd given Mr H enough time to pay the mortgage off and move out before they took 
possession. He didnt think the charges Platform had raised were unreasonable. And he said 
Mr H had to carry on paying the mortgage until the property had been sold and the mortgage 
paid off under the terms of the mortgage contract. Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. 
So, his complaints been passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not mention in my decision everything the parties have said. No discourtesy is 
intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Id like to 
reassure the parties Ive considered carefully all the information theyve provided in coming 
to my decision. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Hs ill-health and difficult personal circumstances. I note his 
strength of feeling about his complaint. And I can understand being evicted will have been a 
stressful experience. I cant interfere with the possession order Platform obtained since the 
court decided that. But I can consider if Platform treated Mr H fairly in evicting him. 
Ive looked at Platforms records which are detailed and persuasive. I can see Platform 
corresponded with Mr H over several years following the possession order. They gave him 
time and opportunity to provide evidence of investments he said would pay the mortgage off. 
They took his personal circumstances into account; agreed to discuss things with Mr Hs 
representatives subject to his authority; considered another way of achieving a sale; and 
delayed the eviction when Mr H was unwell. 
Platform wrote to Mr H in April 2022 to let him know they were going ahead with the eviction. 
He had a further chance before that happened to provide information about an investment 
he said would pay the mortgage off. Platform set out the information they needed about that 
and agreed to discuss things with a third party on Mr Hs authority. Im not aware any firm 
information was provided about the investment and when hed receive the money. Bearing 
everything in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for Platform to go ahead with the 
eviction in the end. 
Even though a final warning was sent only a couple of weeks before the eviction date, I think 
Platform had given Mr H sufficient time to prepare. The April letter had set out clearly what 
would happen. Mr H ought reasonably to have understood then hed need to arrange for the 
property to be cleared. Overall, I think Platform treated Mr H fairly and reasonably in evicting 
him.
The mortgage terms and conditions allowed Platform, at Mr Hs expense and risk, to 
remove, store, sell or dispose of his furniture or belongings if he failed to remove them within 
14 days of them taking possession. That was set out clearly. Platform asked Mr H in        
mid-July if he wanted to collect his belongings and gave him fair warning theyd remove 
them if he didnt. Since he chose not to, and given the condition of the property, which is 
evident from the report Platforms contractor prepared, it was reasonable for Platform to 
incur the costs of clearing and cleaning the property ready for sale. 
Mr H has said the animal he left at the property was a stray. Even if it had been once, his 
actions suggest hed taken it in as a pet. He raised concerns about its treatment and 
originally planned to take it with him later. Im not persuaded Platform mistreated the animal 
as Mr Hs suggested. Their records show they were concerned for its welfare. They liaised 
with a neighbour regarding its care while they investigated temporary accommodation. And 
they arranged for it to be re-homed once Mr H had given authority for that to happen. In all 
the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Mr H to meet the associated costs. 
Platform instructed suitably qualified surveyors to value Mr Hs property before putting it on 
the market. The recommended asking price seems to have been in line with comparable 
evidence the valuers provided. There was nothing obviously wrong with the advice, so it was 
reasonable for Platform to rely on it. And the sale price was in line with the valuation. In the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Platform to go ahead with the sale on that basis.
I wouldnt expect Platform to have agreed to rent the property back to Mr H. I dont think it 
would have been in his best interests in any event. It was necessary to sell the property, so 
the proceeds of sale were available to repay the mortgage. Broadly speaking thats likely to 
have taken longer if Mr H had remained there. And Mr H was obliged to continue making the 
CMP under the terms and conditions of the mortgage until it was repaid. Even though the 
sale was delayed while the property was cleaned and cleared, it was sold within around 
three months of the eviction. I think Platform acted reasonably in progressing the sale in a 
timely way, securing a fair price and applying the funds to pay off the mortgage to minimise 
the CMP Mr H had to pay.Ive considered all the charges Platform incurred and charged Mr H looking at the invoices 
and considering the explanations theyve provided. I understand Mr H is concerned about a 
charge for £27. I cant see one for that amount, although a similar sum formed part of the 
solicitors fees for the sale. If Ive misunderstood, and Mr Hs concern is that the overall 
charges would be around £27,000, I can see they werent as high as that. In total they were 
around £11,320.
Mr H was also concerned hed been charged for replacing a broken lock that Platform had 
installed and had to replace. The completion statement is unclear about that. Platform have 
explained there would usually be two charges of £200 plus VAT each from their contractors 
for visiting a property that requires cleaning and clearing, as here. The first visit to Mr Hs 
house was for partially shutting down utilities and changing the locks. The second was to 
complete the process. Since the lock was found to be broken on the second visit, the fee for 
the first visit was reduced to £170 plus VAT. The second visit was charged at £195 plus 
VAT. Im satisfied Platform havent charged Mr H for the broken lock. 
Bearing in mind the work Platform had to carry out and the steps required to sell the 
property, I think the charges overall were reasonably incurred and reasonable in amount. 
And Mr H was obliged to pay them under the terms and conditions of his mortgage.
Im aware Mr H was unhappy with where Platform wrote to him. It wasnt unreasonable for 
them to have wanted to keep in contact with him. They apologised for any distress they may 
have caused him. I think that was fair to put things right, so I dont require them to do 
anything further. 
We dont generally consider complaints about complaint handling, so I wont comment on  
Mr Hs concerns about that. From what I can see, Platform responded to Mr Hs complaint 
within the required timescales. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst Im sympathetic to Mr Hs circumstances and appreciate 
he will be disappointed, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman