DRN-3043138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect them from losing 
money to a scam. They are also unhappy with the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled things, 
including blocking their account for a period.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to only Mr F, as he was the one mainly involved.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here.
Mr F has explained that in March 2016 he was cold-called by a company that Ill call B. 
B claimed to be a derivatives trader and persuaded Mr F to make a payment of £1,000 to 
start an investment. When this showed a large trading profit on-screen, Mr F made further 
payments to invest further.
The relevant transactions made from Mr and Mrs Fs HSBC bank account are listed below.
Payment 
No. Date Type of transaction Amount (£)
1 30 March 2016 Debit card transaction 1,000
2 20 April 2016 Debit card transaction 5,000
3 22 April 2016 Overseas payment to Bratislava 15,000
4 24 May 2016 Overseas payment to Bratislava 30,000
5 25 May 2016 Debit card transaction 5,000
6 28 June 2016 Overseas payment to Bratislava 20,000
7 21 September 2016 Overseas payment to Bratislava 20,000
8 14 February 2017 Overseas payment to Dubai 20,000
9 02 March 2017 Overseas payment to Dubai 10,276.10
10 17 March 2017 Payment to Metro Bank account holder 10,000
11 19 March 2017 Payment to Metro Bank account holder 226
Total 136,502.10
Mr F has said that B later told him that he would need to pay a further £30,000 in 
administration fees if he wanted his money back. Realising he had been scammed, Mr F 
spoke to HSBC about the scam. HSBC ultimately, however, didnt recover or otherwise 
refund to Mr and Mrs F the money they had lost. HSBC also, in October 2017, placed a 
block on Mr and Mrs Fs account. It has said this block was correctly put in place and that it 
removed it following Mr F attending a branch; and it credited Mr and Mr Fs account with 
£200 as a goodwill payment.
Remaining unhappy, Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint about HSBC to this service. As 
we have been unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a
decision.
I sent Mr and Mrs F and HSBC my provisional decision on 25 June 2021, explaining why I 
was minded to partially (albeit substantially) uphold the complaint and the compensation I 
was minded to award.
Mr and Mrs F responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.
HSBC responded with further submissions of five pages. In light of some of the points HSBC 
made, we obtained and shared with HSBC further information obtained from Mr F. I 
explained I wasnt minded to change my decision in light of this. HSBC responded on 
9 September 2021 with its final submissions. And Im now ready to make my final decision 
on this case.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached materially the same conclusions as explained in my 
provisional decision and as previously explained, and for materially the same reasons. I 
have explained why again below, including further comment, where appropriate, to address 
HSBCs recent submissions.  
It is common ground that Mr F authorised the scam payments. He was duped by the 
scammers into instructing HSBC to make payments from his account for a scam investment. 
The scammers deceived Mr F into thinking the investment was legitimate. I accept that these 
were authorised payments even though Mr F was the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, 
although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr F is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
However, this is not the end of the story. In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint, I am required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And I explained 
in my provisional decision, in light of all of this, what I would therefore fairly and reasonably 
expect of HSBC. 
HSBC has said that my provisional decision is inconsistent with recently clarified legal 
standards, and that the basis for the standards I applied in my provisional decision is 
unclear. However  and as I said in my provisional decision  my fellow ombudsmen and I 
have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good industry practice at the time 
in many previous decisions, both to HSBC and published on our website. 
In particular (among other things): 
Regulated banks like HSBC are required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
Banks have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements 
and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook, which has applied since 2001). 
Over the years, the FSA, and its successor the FCA, have published a series of 
papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found when 
reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime. Among others, those 
papers include various iterations of the regulators Financial crime: a guide for firms 
and the FSAs June 2012 Banks defences against investment fraud  Detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims, which considered banks efforts to counter fraud, 
and in particular investment fraud, both where their customer was a fraudster and 
where the customer is the victim. 
Examples of good practice included in the June 2012 investment fraud paper 
included: real time payment screening against a well formulated watch list; 
transaction monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment fraud; 
banks actively contacting customers if suspect payments are identified; banks 
placing material on investment fraud on its website; work to detect and prevent 
investment fraud being integrated with a banks vulnerable customers initiative. The 
FSA also explained that: we have a regulatory remit to tackle investment fraud, 
which has prompted our particular interest in this area, although the lessons of this 
report can be applied to banks handling of other types of fraud and criminal conduct 
affecting their customers. 
I accept that the examples of good and poor practices referred to by the FSA in the 
2012 paper (and by the FSA and FCA in others) were non-exhaustive and 
non-binding and that the regulators recognised that a variety of risk-based 
proportionate approaches is possible. I am also mindful that the contents of the 2012 
paper are now reflected in the FCG 4.2.5G (see FTCR 14.1.4G) and previously in the 
FSA/FCA publication Financial crime: a guide for firms (see, for example, page 46 
of the 2015 version1 from 2015)2. And I am satisfied that the various thematic review 
findings and SYSC 3.2.6R are of relevance here. For example, the 2012 paper 
considered banks efforts to counter fraud where both the customer is the fraudster 
and also where the customer is the victim, in light of the regulatory obligation to 
counter the risk that regulated firms might be used to further financial crime, including 
fraud.
Regulated banks are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. At the material 
time, those requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive 
policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for 
example through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of 
1 https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/document/FC1_FCA_20150427.pdf
2 Both FBG 4.2.5G and the FCAs 2015 Financial crime: a guide for firms gave examples of good practice in
relation to investment fraud in the following terms:
A bank regularly assesses the risk to itself and its customers of losses from fraud, including investment fraud, in
accordance with their established risk management framework. The risk assessment does not only cover
situations where the bank could cover losses, but also where customers could lose and not be reimbursed by the
bank. Resource allocation and mitigation measures are informed by this assessment.
A bank contacts customers if it suspects a payment is being made to an investment fraudster.
A bank has transaction monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment fraud. Investment fraud
subject matter experts help set these rules.the business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I therefore consider HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am aware that HSBC considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected 
of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm. I note that, in this regard in particular, it has referred to a recent (2021) Payment 
Systems Regulator paper; the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 section 53(d)  
the general principle that those who use services provided by payment systems should take 
responsibility for their decisions; the Quincecare duty; and the recent Philipp judgment. 
However, I have already explained the starting position that Mr F is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance  but why this isnt the end of the story. I am also mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case. 
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment where the judge took a different view about 
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law and what 
HSBC has said about this in response to my provisional decision, we have a duty to resolve 
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulator rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
payment 3
There is a balance to be struck. HSBC had (and has) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in its customers best interests. But it cant be involved in every single 
transaction. And where it is involved, I would reasonably expect the level and depth of 
discussion with the customer to depend on the unusualness of the transaction and the risk 
involved.
With that said, I am satisfied that HSBC did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr F. I say this because Mr Fs payment instruction on 22 April 2016 for £15,000 (payment 
3) was very clearly unusual and uncharacteristic compared to the prior operation of the 
account, as shown by the account statements I have seen dating back to 2015. The 
payment instruction was for a sizeable amount indeed (£15,000)  which was unusual and 
uncharacteristic for the account  and the payment was for a new payee overseas. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs F had a substantial account balance at the time. But the 
payment instruction still stands out as clearly unusual and uncharacteristic. 
HSBC has said in response to my provisional decision that it is important not to conflate 
unusual with suspicious. But I am satisfied, for the reasons Ive already explained, that this 
was a payment instruction that HSBC ought to have realised warranted additional checks 
before it processed it.
I think in a situation like this HSBC should have called and spoken to Mr F to check 
everything was in order, to protect him from the possibility of financial harm. Indeed, it would 
appear from the evidence HSBC has submitted that HSBC did try to contact Mr F about this 
payment instruction  there is an internal bank memo dated 22 April 2016, suggesting so, 
which noted that if Mr and Mrs F called back they should be transferred by the call handler to 
the fraud department.
There is no evidence I have seen, however, that Mr F and HSBC did discuss the payment 
instruction before HSBC processed it  I would expect HSBC to have a record of any 
conversation about the payment if indeed one took place. Without such evidence, I am not 
persuaded I can conclude that a conversation did take place. In any event, despite what 
HSBC has said about this, even if such a conversation did take place  and I have not seen 
any evidence that persuades me it did  I would still need to be satisfied HSBC dealt with the 
call appropriately to protect against the risk of financial harm. Again, Ive not seen any 
evidence that it did so.
I have therefore thought about what most likely would have happened if HSBC had spoken  
and appropriately so  to Mr F about his payment instruction on 22 April 2016 before it 
processed it, as it reasonably ought to have done.
HSBC has said it wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective; and that it doesnt 
think contact with Mr F would have made a difference. To be clear, however, Im not 
suggesting Mr F should have been subject to an interrogation. But HSBC ought reasonably  
to have asked Mr F what the payment was for and for the basic surrounding context, and 
then to proceed appropriately from there  with the aim being disturbing or unearthing a 
potential fraud or scam. 
I have seen nothing that makes me think Mr F wouldnt have responded openly to such 
questions. In which case, I think HSBC most likely would have quickly discovered that this 
was Mr Fs third payment from his HSBC account to a company that had cold-called him in 
March 2016 and claimed to be a derivatives trader, and that everything had since been done 
over the phone, by email, and on-screen.
HSBC has said that there is very little background information about the cold call and why 
Mr F decided to invest in derivatives. However, Mr F has explained there was no particular 
reason why he decided to invest in derivatives; that he had no prior investment experience of 
this kind; and that in March 2016, before he made payment 1, he was cold-called by a 
gentleman (a scammer) who: explained how everything worked, offered considerable 
returns, and tried to persuade him (Mr F) to make a small initial investment. Mr F has said he 
was cautious  so he did some research and only invested a small amount initially (£1,000 
with payment 1); but that the scammers were very persuasive, and everything seemed 
professional; he then withdrew £200 from the investment on or around 7 April 2016, which 
provided him with reassurance; and that after seeing good returns he decided to invest 
more. 
HSBC has said that there is no evidence provided by Mr F in respect of the online trading 
platform. However, we have shared with HSBC all information and communications between Mr F and the scammers that Mr F has been able to provide, both before payment 3 and from 
payment 3 onwards. This includes a screenshot the scammer emailed to Mr F on 
5 May 2016 showing apparent performance.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Fs integrity, and I am satisfied that if HSBC had asked Mr F  
as I am satisfied it ought to have done  what payment 3 was for, and for the basic 
surrounding context, HSBC would have known, or ought reasonably to have known, that 
cold-calling like this, and a payment overseas to a new payee for investments of this nature 
would be a red flag for a potential scam. HSBC would also have learnt from Mr F the name 
of the purported company. I dont think HSBC obtaining and considering these basic details 
about the payment would have been onerous  and I am satisfied that it ought to have done 
so, to meet its obligations to protect its customer from potential financial harm.
Mr F has said that he did research B as far as he was able to. He has said they were 
registered with Companies House; had a very professional website; and made very careful 
demands as to the way funds could be sent, saying that the Bratislava account was a 
Trustpay account which would somehow guarantee the safety of the funds. As Ive already 
said, Mr F has also explained that the credit he received from B on 7 April 2016 for £200 (a 
withdrawal he had requested) was reassuring regarding the legitimacy of the investment.
If B was registered on Companies House (and it appears it was), I dont think the available 
information would have reassured a professional bank like HSBC that Mr F was not at risk of 
financial harm. B wasnt regulated by the FCA. And I think, given HSBCs knowledge of how 
investment scams work, HSBC would have known  or ought reasonably to have known  
that payments like this to international accounts to a company purporting to be a derivatives 
trader posed a significant or material risk of being a scam.
HSBC really ought to have pointed this out had it called Mr F and discussed the payment 
with him as it should have. HSBC was the professional in financial matters and Mr F was the 
layperson. And HSBC ought to have known  if necessary by taking a step back and 
referring for further advice internally before putting the payment through  that there are 
companies that dupe victims with what are effectively fake online portals that purport to show 
investment performance but are sometimes nothing more than a tool to keep the victims in 
the dark as the scam progresses further. HSBC wouldnt have known B was, for certain, one 
of these companies. But I think a stern warning from HSBC to Mr F was justified, including 
further questions about exactly what Mr F knew about the company. I would have expected 
HSBC to have told Mr F that receiving a cold call like this was a red flag; and that the fact the 
company appeared to be registered on Companies House did not mean Mr F was safe from 
being scammed.
HSBC has argued that Mr F wasnt cautious, that he clearly found the scammers to be 
persuasive, and that by this stage Mr F had only made two previous payments to the 
scammers. It has said that Ive not considered how much would have subsequently taken 
place across the remaining subsequent payments, or how plausible or likely it is that it would 
have been able to disturb the scam and cause Mr F to act differently at the point of payment 
3 based on a single telephone conversation with him. So, HSBC has argued, the payment 
and/or future payments may not have been prevented, even if it had intervened. However, I 
think its more likely than not that had HSBC spoken with Mr F as it ought to have, Mr F 
would have been concerned. The operation of Mr and Mrs Fs HSBC account suggests 
Mr Fs decision to follow this investment was somewhat out of the blue, flowing from the 
initial cold call in March 2016. I think that Mr F would have taken such a warning from a 
professional bank like HSBC seriously. Faced with the prospect that he could be making 
payments to scammers and that he might not ever recover the money, I think Mr F would 
have thought things through further and would ultimately have decided that the risk of 
investing with this company was too high to accept. So I am not persuaded Mr F would have gone ahead with the £15,000 payment on 22 April 2016 if HSBC had done what it 
should have.
HSBC has said, in response to my provisional decision, that my decision is unfairly based on 
the premise that it would have quickly discovered a significant amount of information from 
Mr F. But, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think the amount of information 
HSBC would have needed to have obtain from Mr F to recognise there was a risk here was 
actually that much at all  nor, as Ive said, that this would have been onerous. I think the 
payment instruction should have flagged to HSBC for a call to Mr F to check he wasnt at risk 
of financial harm, and that a simple, straightforward, but focused call  first asking for basic 
information and context about the payment and proceeding appropriately from there, would 
have uncovered information (available at the time, and not with the benefit of hindsight) that 
HSBC ought to have realised warranted a tailored fraud and scams warning. HSBC would 
know  or ought to have known  that the fact that B may not have been specifically 
identified at that time as a company of concern by the FCA or other organisations didnt 
mean Mr F was safe from financial harm. So the points HSBC has made about this havent 
changed my mind.
HSBC has also argued that it is unfair to fix it with the knowledge that Mr F ought to have 
had if he had carried out appropriate due diligence, whilst attributing no responsibility for his 
failure to do so himself. I have considered this further below in deciding on contributory 
negligence.
payments 4 to 11 
Given my understanding that all payments were linked to the same scam, I am satisfied this 
means that Mr F also would not have gone ahead with any of the payments subsequent to 
22 April 2016 (listed above).
HSBC has said that whilst the scam is said to have been perpetrated by B, the payments 
were made to different payee names, and Mr F has not explained why he was asked to 
make payments by different methods to different beneficiaries. It has also said that there is a 
lack of information about the payments that followed the initial payment (presumably it 
means beyond payment 1)  for example, whether there were further calls or alternative 
methods of communication, save for access to the online trading platform. However, Mr F 
has explained that further payments to the scam investment were always initiated after a call 
from the alleged trader who would say something like if he invested up to the next level 
they could make more profits; and he says he was always given plausible explanations 
about why the payments should be made to new accounts (such as them moving banks). 
And looking at the details of communications Mr F has been able to provide, and everything 
together, I am satisfied that these payments were part of the same overall scam; and that 
payments to different payees wasnt something Mr F reasonably thought ought to concern 
him. 
HSBC has gone on to say that theres no evidence from Mr F how he uncovered the scam in 
May 2017, why he was unable to do so earlier than that, or why he continued to invest 
significant sums over a period of 12 months without any evidence that his money was safe 
or achieving returns, other than his apparent ability to view an online trading platform. 
However, Mr F has said that his investments appeared to be performing extremely well over 
the period in question; that the online platform was showing some fantastic trades 
throughout the Brexit process which made sense and seemed plausible to him; and that it 
was only after he asked to make a further withdrawal in 2017 and M said he was tied in that 
he started to have concerns; and that the scam was reported to Action Fraud on 7 April 2017 
and passed to the Metropolitan Police by 29 May 2017. I do not find this to be unreasonable, 
or that this is something that persuades me to depart from my provisional decision.payments 1 and 2
On the matter of the first two payments (which were prior to 22 April 2016), I am not 
persuaded these first two payments made using Mr Fs VISA debit card were sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic to say HSBC ought to have contacted Mr F about them. And by 
the time Mr F realised that he had fallen victim to a scam, the chargeback grounds available 
to HSBC under the VISA chargeback rules were very limited (and indeed that would also 
have been the case had HSBC looked to submit chargebacks much earlier).
Prior to 14 October 2017  when VISA introduced a new chargeback ground (applying to 
transactions made after that date), aimed at investment trading disputes in circumstances 
where the merchant prevents an account holder from withdrawing account balances  there 
were only limited valid chargeback grounds available under VISA rules.
In particular, a card issuer (HSBC) could attempt a chargeback where it had written 
documentation from the merchant guaranteeing an amount of profit/return under what was at 
the time chargeback Reason Code 53  Not as Described or Defective Merchandise.
Whilst I agree it is more likely than not that B was not a legitimate merchant, that does not in 
itself give rise to a chargeback right or mean the chargeback would have succeeded. The 
chargeback grounds available to card issuers are limited and require supporting evidence to 
be valid. Without the written evidence of guaranteed performance required by VISA rules, I 
am persuaded that an attempt at chargeback would not have proved successful. 
So I am satisfied that if HSBC had done what it ought to have done, Mr F would not have 
made the payments from (and including) 22 April 2016, but the initial two VISA debit card 
payments would not have been recovered.
contributory negligence
I considered in my provisional decision whether Mr F should bear some responsibility by way 
of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). 
HSBC has made some points about this in its response  in summary that: the only 
independent check Mr F carried out was a Companies House search; Mr F didnt act with 
caution  he parted with over £130,000 without reliable evidence the sums would be safe; a 
cautious investor would have carefully reviewed the communications from B and the 
documents provided  and would have picked up on a number of anomalies and 
inconsistencies which should have aroused suspicion. 
I would like to reassure HSBC and Mr F that I have considered very carefully all the points 
made about this (and indeed the whole of the case).
I am satisfied that at the outset Mr F wanted to proceed with caution, which is why he initially 
invested a relatively small amount (his first payment being £1,000) and checked for B on 
Companies House. 
I understand HSBCs perspective  that Mr F could have done more to ensure the legitimacy 
of B, before he made the payments (particularly payments 3 to 11). However, I am mindful 
that HSBC, as a professional bank, is much more informed and aware, of course, of scams 
like this and how best to avoid them (which is, as Ive explained, part of the reason why I 
think intervention from HSBC would have made a difference from payment 3 onwards). And 
just because some other customers might reasonably have undertaken more research into B before making such payments, that doesnt automatically mean it would be fair to reduce 
compensation on the basis of contributory negligence here. 
This is not an exact science. And it is possible Mr F had some misgivings about B before 
payment 3 and/or at some point before payment 11. But I think it is more probable that 
Mr Fs early interactions with B, Bs website (which is no longer viewable but which Mr F has 
said he found to be professional  and I have no reason to doubt this), his Companies 
House search, and some early profits and his successful withdrawal of £200 on or around 
7 April 2016, reassured Mr F that his investment was safe.  
A person does need to reasonably foresee the risk of some sort of loss  not necessarily the 
precise loss that occurred  in order to be held liable in negligence. I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to say that Mr F was partly responsible for a loss he simply did not see  
in circumstances where, unlike HSBC, he didnt appreciate how scams like this work, nor  
despite what HSBC has said about this  how sophisticated they can be in terms of duping 
victims with what are effectively fake online portals that purport to show investment 
performance but are sometimes nothing more than a tool to keep the victims in the dark as 
the scam progresses further  and by allowing early withdrawals to further hook victims in. 
This was a very sophisticated scam and I dont think Mr F would have reasonably known that 
what he was seeing in terms of a growing investment was not true.
I have carefully considered what HSBC has said about the documented communications 
between Mr F and B. But I dont consider the grammar and spelling in these communications 
could reasonably be said to have been something which, bearing in mind what Ive already 
said about this, ought to have raised Mr Fs suspicions. Neither do I find inconsistencies 
HSBC has referred to between some emails (for example, a signature in some emails, but 
not others) to be something that reasonably ought to have made Mr F suspicious. 
HSBC has said that some of the emails Mr F received were from private email accounts, and 
that there would have been no reasonable explanation for this when purportedly dealing with 
a professional organisation. But, from the evidence Ive seen, Mr F only received one email 
from a private email account before he made any of the 11 payments  and that was on 
16 March 2016 when the trader was following up on his introductory call to Mr F to get 
things moving, linking, in the email, to the official B website. Further emails Mr F received 
like this were on or after 28 March 2017, by which point Mr F had already instructed all 11 
payments. 
HSBC has also said that the payment details that were for Slovakia and then Dubai should 
also has raised some concern. However, Ive already said that Mr F has said that B always 
gave plausible explanations for where the payments needed to be sent, and I am not 
persuaded by what HSBC has said about this.  
HSBC has also pointed towards an email from B to Mr F dated 1 March 2017 which, it says, 
references US legislation in relation to a UK consumer making payments within Europe and 
Dubai; HSBC has said this makes no sense at all. But this was nearing the end of the scam. 
And, as a layperson, and given the complexity of financial regulation, law and jurisdiction, I 
dont think Mr F would have reasonably realised from this that there was something to be 
concerned about. However, as the documented emails show, this email did mark the 
beginning of the end, following which Mr F started to become aware of the scam, albeit 
getting tricked into making some final payments to the scam in order to secure a withdrawal 
that then never materialised.
I have considered the illustrated performance on the investment. And I note that Mr F was 
sent a screenshot on 5 May 2016 indicating a fund value of around £55,000, presumably in 
relation to Mr Fs account with B. By this point Mr F had invested around £21,000 with B. So these would have appeared to be impressive gains in a short period of time, but not, in my 
opinion, most likely so outside what Mr F had been scammed into expecting, given the 
explanation he would have been given, that it should have raised his suspicion  and he has 
explained that the trades, in the climate and context at the time, did appear to be plausible 
and legitimate. 
I have considered that from at least February 2017 the performance appears to have 
substantially risen further. But I am not persuaded that Mr Fs actions, in making payments 8 
to 11 (the 2017 payments), were unreasonable (especially bearing in mind the context at 
that time), to the extent that I would fairly and reasonably reduce compensation here. 
This is a case about whether the scam payments should have been prevented. Overall, in 
my view, it was the failure of HSBC that really caused the loss  but for its inaction in the 
face of unusual and uncharacteristic activity when Mr F instructed payment 3, Mr Fs loss of 
payments 3 to 11 probably wouldnt have occurred. Any errors by Mr F, in the sense that its 
possible that he could have done more, earlier, to research and make sure of the legitimacy 
of B, were effectively superseded by HSBCs errors, breaking the causal chain. So whilst 
there may be cases where a proportionate reduction in compensation is justified for a 
customers contributory negligence, I dont think it can fairly be said that he, the layperson, 
was to blame in this scenario  or that his compensation should be reduced accordingly.
  
Putting things right
It follows that Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive explained above, that had HSBC done what it 
ought to have done, Mr F would not have lost the £130,502.10 paid on and after 
22 April 2016 (payments 4 to 11). Given that Mr F did receive a £200 withdrawal, however, 
HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs F £130,302.10 to cover the net loss.
HSBC should also fairly and reasonably pay Mr and Mrs F interest to compensate them for 
being deprived of the money they lost. I think that had the scammer not taken the money 
from Mr and Mrs F then it would most likely have remained in their HSBC account, so 
interest should be at that rate.
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest award of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs F have suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that 
their loss was ultimately caused by the callous act of scammers and they were authorised 
transactions, but HSBC could ultimately have prevented the payments. In deciding this 
amount, I have taken into account that HSBC has already paid Mr and Mrs F £200.
I understand Mr F is also unhappy with the way HSBC handled matters, including recovery 
of the funds and the blocking of their account for a period. But in light of my conclusions 
above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether HSBC exercised enough care and 
urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the payee banks before they were 
irretrievably removed by the scammers. I also note that HSBC has previously explained the 
reason why Mr and Mrs Fs account was blocked for a period. And overall, whilst I can 
understand why Mr F is generally unhappy with the service he has received from HSBC, I 
think the £200 goodwill payment HSBC has previously credited Mr and Mrs Fs account with, 
and the compensation Ive set out, is fair and reasonable and adequate in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partially uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc  
and I direct it to:pay Mr and Mrs F £130,302.10 within 28 days of receiving their acceptance of my 
final decision; and
pay Mr and Mrs F interest on that amount calculated at the prevailing rate of their 
HSBC bank account, from the date of each respective payment to the date of 
settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mr and Mrs F 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and
pay Mr and Mrs F £150 for distress and inconvenience within 28 days of receiving 
their acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter accrue on 
that sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman