DRN-4227274
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)s
systems prevented them applying for the Pay As You Grow options under the Bounce Back
Loan Scheme. H also complains that the bank closed their account without reason and took
too long to process their account switch.
The complaint is brought on Hs behalf by one of the partners, Mr B.
What happened
H held a business account with NatWest and obtained a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) from the
bank in August 2020. Hs BBL repayments were due to start twelve months after they had
received the BBL.
In August 2021, H applied to NatWest to take a Pay As You Grow (PAYG) option which
would allow them to defer or reduce their payments for six months. However, H says that
they didnt receive a response to their application despite repeatedly contacting the bank.
And as the partners wanted to apply for a PAYG option, H hasnt made any repayments to
the BBL.
In December 2021, NatWest wrote to the partners to say that it didnt wish to provide
banking facilities to them, and they needed to make alternative arrangements as their
accounts would be closed in 60 days. However, NatWest said that the BBL could remain in
place, although H would need to make their repayments from an alternative account.
In February 2022, H attempted to switch their account to a new bank. The partners say that
for some reason, NatWest rejected the account switch, and they then received a cheque for
the balance in their account in March 2022. H was unhappy with the service they had
received from NatWest and made a complaint. Unhappy with the banks response, H asked
this service to look into their complaint.
H told us that that because of the issues with their account, theyd had direct debits
cancelled and hadnt been able to receive payments through their online booking system
which was linked to their NatWest account  causing them a financial loss. H also said their
insurance policy had been cancelled and theyd had to take out a new one at a higher
premium. The partners told us they were experiencing financial difficulty because H hadnt
been able to apply for a PAYG option due to the banks systems.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. While he recognised that Hs
account closure had impacted the partners, he thought NatWest had acted in line with its
terms and conditions in taking this action. He also said the bank didnt need to tell H the
reason for its decision, so it hadnt done anything wrong here. However, he acknowledged
that H had been negatively affected when their account hadnt been switched as expected
and recommended that NatWest pay H £500 compensation and refund any loss of earnings
between the account being closed in January and the new account being opened in May
2022.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had fairly processed Hs PAYG application either, as it
hadnt made H aware that it wouldnt be able to apply for the PAYG options due to their
account being closed. He said the bank had repeatedly said it would action the request but
hadnt done so. So he thought NatWest should pay a further £500 compensation for this part
of the complaint and contact H to discuss the PAYG application.
NatWest agreed to pay the £500 compensation for the PAYG issues and said that if H
applied for the PAYG option again, it would review the application to ensure it was
processed. However, it said it had rejected the account switch in line with its process, and
therefore didnt agree that it should pay compensation or loss of earnings because of this. It
also said that H had waited until the end of the 60 days to apply elsewhere for an account,
so it wasnt fully responsible for H not having access to a bank account during that time.
However, after discussing this further with the investigator, NatWest made an offer of £1,500
compensation to resolve the complaint.
H didnt accept NatWests offer and didnt agree with the banks response. They said this
wasnt enough compensation for the inconvenience caused and wanted £6,500 to settle the
complaint. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2023. I said the following:
I know H will be disappointed with my decision, but Ill explain how Ive reached this. 
H has provided lots of information including numerous call recordings and Ive taken 
everything into account. If I dont directly reference something in my decision, it is not 
because I havent considered it  but because Ive focused on what I consider to be 
most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Account closure
The bank is entitled to make the decision to terminate a relationship with a customer 
and the terms and conditions of the account allow it to do so as long as it has given 
60 days notice  which Ive seen was the case here.
H is unhappy that NatWest decided to close their account without giving a reason. 
They believe this decision was taken unfairly in response to a previous complaint. 
However, I havent seen any evidence thats the case. The bank has provided us with 
the information on which its decision was based, and having reviewed this, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for NatWest to take this action in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
I acknowledge H says its unfair that the bank hasnt given them the reason for the 
account closure, but NatWest isnt obligated to share more information that it already 
has, and I cant fairly require it to do so.
Account switch
H says that NatWest treated them unfairly as the bank blocked their account switch. 
H also says the bank said the BBL was the reason the switch didnt take place  but 
they dont understand why. However, I havent seen any evidence that NatWest said 
the BBL was the reason the switch didnt take place. Id also like to reassure the 
partners that NatWest has provided us with the information and agreement on which 
its decision to prevent the switch process was based and this wasnt related to the 
BBL. Im afraid that the bank has provided this information in confidence, so in line 
with the rules of this service Im unable to give H the explanation they would like. However, having reviewed everything, I think it was reasonable for NatWest to take 
this action.
Furthermore, NatWest has told us that when a switch request from another bank has 
been received, it means that the account is already open and operational with the 
other bank. By preventing the switch request, it was simply the direct debits and 
balance that wouldnt automatically have been transferred. This means that once H 
was made aware by the switching bank by 3 February (when they told this service) 
that NatWest had rejected their switch request, they had several weeks to arrange for 
the withdrawal of the outstanding balance, manually transfer their direct debits, and 
update their online booking site which wouldve prevented them incurring any of the 
losses that they say they suffered as a result of this issue.
I acknowledge that H says it was caused a financial loss by NatWest as some direct 
debits werent paid and they couldnt receive deposits for bookings. However, as I 
dont think the bank did anything wrong in preventing the switch request, it follows 
that I dont think NatWest are responsible for the losses H says they incurred as a 
result.
H says that it was given conflicting information by the bank about the account switch 
and given the correspondence Ive seen between both parties I think thats likely to 
be the case. So I think the bank caused H frustration and meant H made repeated 
calls and emails to NatWest attempting to resolve an issue that hadnt taken place.
PAYG application issues
H says that they repeatedly tried to apply for the PAYG option, but NatWests system 
was preventing them from completing this successfully, which caused them financial 
difficulty. NatWest said that it wasnt able to offer the PAYG option to H because of 
the account closure, so it didnt do anything wrong. But I dont agree. I think H was 
entitled to apply for the PAYG options, in line with the BBL Scheme rules, as this was 
independent of the banks decision to close Hs account after the partners had 
already attempted to apply for the PAYG repayment holiday. I also note the closure 
letter issued to H in December 2021 said that their business current account would 
remain open in case they wanted to request a capital repayment holiday for the BBL 
under the PAYG option - so I think it was reasonable for H to believe that they could 
apply for the PAYG repayment holiday without an issue and without the loan 
incurring interest before they were ready to start making repayments.
H says that because NatWest prevented them applying for the PAYG option, the 
bank started taking repayments which they werent ready to make, which caused 
them financial difficulty. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I say that because Ive 
seen a copy of Hs BBL account statement which doesnt show any payments being 
credited to the outstanding BBL balance. So I cant reasonably say that H was 
caused financial difficulty here due to being unable to apply for the PAYG option 
initially, as they didnt make any repayments to the loan account and therefore still 
had the use of those funds.
However, I do think as a result of NatWest system issue that H was prevented from 
applying for the six-month repayment holiday in August 2021 that theyd wanted to 
do. This would have meant H wouldnt have been expected to make repayments 
from September 2021 to February 2022. Instead, arrears began to accrue on Hs 
BBL account from this point, which I dont think was fair.NatWest told us that as a result of closing Hs account and the partners not applying 
for the PAYG option before the BBL went into arrears, it had to make manual 
changes to their system to allow H to apply. I think it was understandable that some 
delays may have taken place as a result of this. However, I dont think the bank has 
reasonably acknowledged that the reason for Hs BBL arrears was because they 
couldnt apply for the PAYG options. Ive also seen that H was told on multiple 
occasions that they could apply for the PAYG as the system issue was resolved, but 
this wasnt the case. 
This meant H spent time attempting to apply and then having to contact the bank 
when they couldnt complete the application as expected. It was then several months 
before H could make the application, and when they did there was confusion about 
the next steps and contact from NatWest because the partners had said they were in 
financial difficulty. So I think H was caused inconvenience and distress here, and I 
dont think the arrears were fairly recorded against the BBL.
However, I have seen electronic records which show that when NatWest resolved 
their system issue, and H was able to apply in August 2022, they accessed the 
application but didnt sign it  so NatWest wasnt able to action their request. The 
bank then offered to reopen the application again in October, but due to a lack of 
response, it was unable to apply the PAYG option H said they wanted. However, I 
cant see that the option to reapply in October 2022 was communicated to H, so I 
dont think they can reasonably be held responsible for this.
NatWest has told us that due to the time that has passed and the arrears that have 
accrued on the account, it can no longer apply any PAYG options to Hs BBL 
account. The bank has explained that it has now passed the BBL to a debt collection 
agency and if H is unable to make the required repayments, they can liaise with them 
directly to arrange an affordable repayment plan. However, I dont think this is fair. I 
say this because it took NatWest over a year to resolve the system issue so that H 
could actually apply for the PAYG option, it then gave the partners a relatively short 
timescale to apply without taking into consideration how this service would look to put 
things right.
Considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I think NatWest should take the 
account back from the debt collection agency, then rework Hs BBL as if they had 
been able to benefit from the repayment holiday for six months until February 2022  
as I think its clear this was Hs intention - and is what wouldve happened if things 
had gone as they should. I think NatWest should then remove the default and 
adverse credit information from their credit file and make an arrangement with H to 
repay the remainder of any unpaid instalments which have since accrued on the 
BBL.
I also think H was caused distress and inconvenience by NatWest as a result of 
being given incorrect information and not being able to apply for the BBL PAYG 
option when they wanted. This led to the partners repeatedly contacting the bank 
when they shouldnt have needed to. NatWest has agreed that its service fell below 
the level that H should have received, for which it has apologised and offered £1,500 
to settle the complaint.
However, given that I am recommending the bank put H in the position they would 
have been had the PAYG option been applied correctly instead of just compensation, 
I think a total £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair. I recognise that 
H will be disappointed with this as they wanted £6,500 to settle the complaint. However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think NatWest is responsible for the 
financial loss and related impact that H believes is the case.
I invited H and NatWest to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. NatWest didnt say whether it agreed or disagreed 
with the decision. H didnt agree, they said in summary:
The decision is focused more on their BBL than the impact on them from their 
account closure. It should have focused more on the impact on Hs business account 
and considered the partners personal accounts as they were all affected by 
NatWests closure request and refusal to allow the switch. 
If the reason the accounts were closed wasnt able to be shared, why were they 
given 60 days notice to close their account rather than immediately. NatWest should 
tell them the reason given to the new bank for declining the switch request. 
Its unfair to expect them to manually change their direct debits and withdraw their 
cash, this takes a lot of time and should have been done as part of the switching 
process. They had the right to request this, and by not actioning the request, the 
bank had prevented them from leaving and breached the banking rules. 
They disagreed with the stage at which NatWest said their account with the new 
bank was open, as it took several weeks for their account to be opened and the 
online banking and debit cards to be provided.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Mr B says that its unfair the decision doesnt take into consideration that the partners 
accounts were closed at the same time as the business account, as this shows the banks 
actions were deliberate. However, H is a separate legal entity to the partners as individuals, 
and in this decision, I can only consider the actions the bank took towards the partnership as 
the eligible complainant. I recognise Mr B feels strongly about this, but the partners would 
need to raise separate complaints in a personal capacity against the bank for them to be 
considered. If the partners are unhappy with NatWests resolution to those complaints, then 
the service can consider them separately.
Mr B says that NatWest should share the reasons it gave to the other bank for declining Hs 
switch request. And that by not proceeding with the switch, NatWest has broken the 
breached the banking rules and prevented them from leaving  but I dont agree. As a 
service, we're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. 
These rules set out how we approach complaints, in this case DISP rule 3.5.9(R) allows me 
to accept information in confidence where I consider it appropriate to do so. Ive agreed and 
accepted this with NatWest, and therefore I wont be commenting further on the specific 
evidence it has provided regarding this point. However, Id like to reassure H that Im 
persuaded by the banks rationale behind this decision. 
Im also not persuaded by Hs argument that NatWest prevented H from leaving or breached 
the rules. I say this because H was able to apply for the switching request and open an account elsewhere during the 60-day notice period they were given by the bank, so I cant 
reasonably say NatWest prevented them from moving their account elsewhere. And whilst I 
recognise it would have been inconvenient for H to have to contact each of the third partys 
they had regular payments going to and from, as I have already explained, this was a 
decision the bank was able to make. I also havent seen any evidence they were prevented 
from making these manual changes by NatWest, so I dont think the bank has done anything 
wrong here.
 
I recognise that H doesnt think their account with the new bank was open within the 
timescales NatWest has advised and that they were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
However, based on the evidence from both parties, Im satisfied that H did have some 
access to the account prior to their online banking and debit cards being provided  given 
that theyd received a sort code and account number. So I think H could reasonably have 
started moving their regular payments and receiving payments into that account  even if 
transactions had to be completed within a local branch.
H says that the provisional decision has focussed more on their BBL rather than the impact 
caused due to the issues with their account. The reason for this is that, as I dont think 
NatWest made an error with the account closure and switch, it follows that I dont think it 
needs to do anything further to put things right on these complaint points. However, I do 
think it could have done things better with regards to the BBL and therefore I have detailed 
the banks actions in more detail and what I think it should do to put things right. 
Mr B has told us that this has been a really distressing time, and that H has been heavily 
impacted by NatWests actions. I understand why he feels the bank is responsible for this 
and that the compensation paid isnt enough. But after considering all the information from 
both parties, I am recommending the bank put H in the position they would have
been in had the PAYG option been applied correctly instead of just paying compensation. I 
also think a total £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair, as I dont think 
NatWest is responsible for the financial loss and related impact that H believes is the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I intend to instruct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to do the following:
Take Hs BBL account back from the debt collection agency, then rework the BBL as
if the repayment holiday had been in place from September 2021 until February
2022.
Remove the default and adverse credit information from Hs credit file.
Liaise with H with a view to agreeing a repayment plan for the remainder of any
unpaid instalments which would have accrued from February 2022.
Pay H £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman