DRN-3938187
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc wont provide the mortgage product that he applied 
for and which an adviser told him he had got.
What happened
Mr P has a buy to let mortgage with Santander. Mr P selected a new mortgage product with 
Santander on 25 June 2022 fixed until 2 October 2027. The rate was 2.64% with a product 
fee of £1,499.00. Santander says that a cheque for that amount should have accompanied 
the signed acceptance form in order to confirm the new mortgage product. Santander got the 
acceptance form on 6 July 2022 but not the cheque. Santander says it wrote to Mr P on 7 
July 2022 to say it got the acceptance form, but the fee was outstanding. Mr P says he didnt 
get this. 
On 21 July 2022, Mr P enquired about the product switch and was told that it would 
complete as planned. Santander says that the adviser on 21 July made an error, but the 
documentation Mr P received made it clear that the availability of the mortgage product 
depended on the cheque for the fee being received with the acceptance form. In 
recompense for the error, it paid Mr P £100. 
Our investigators view was that Santander had paid fair compensation for the error but that 
the mortgage offer clearly required a cheque to be submitted with the acceptance form which 
wasnt done. So, she didnt require Santander to reinstate the offer. Mr P disagrees and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P wanted a new mortgage product with Santander. Santander issued an offer dated 25 
June 2022 which was available for acceptance until 9 July 2022. In order to accept the offer, 
Mr P was required to return two things on or before 9 July 2022 namely a signed acceptance 
form and a cheque for the product fee of £1,499.00. The acceptance form requires the fee to 
be paid with the form. Mr P returned the form which was signed on 1 July 2022 but not the 
cheque. 
From a reading of the mortgage offer its clear that acceptance of it requires two things. One 
of those was the payment of a cheque but Mr P didnt pay it. I note that in his email to us of 3 
November 2022 Mr P says that he signed the acceptance form and opted to pay the fee. But 
the mortgage offer required payment of the cheque with the acceptance form and Mr P didnt 
do that.  That is set out in plain terms in the mortgage offer. 
Why didnt Mr P pay it? Mr P says that he expected to pay the booking fee on settlement as 
this was what hed done previously. Mr P also says that he didnt have a cheque book. But it 
would appear that even if Mr P had a chequebook he was unlikely to pay it as he presumed 
incorrectly that it wouldnt have to be paid until settlement contrary to what it said in the 
mortgage offer. The mortgage offer couldnt be clearer as to what Mr P was required to do 
and Mr P didnt do it. I cant fault Santander for that. As Mr P didnt fulfil Santanders 
requirements for acceptance of the mortgage offer, I consider that it was reasonable for it to 
proceed on the basis that the offer lapsed on 9 July 2022. Its unfortunate that in a phone call 
later that Mr P was given incorrect information on the progress of the application. I agree that 
Mr P should be compensated for that, and the £100 which Santander paid seems 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr P £100. As it has already done this I 
dont require it to pay anything more,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman