DRN-2007034
The complaint
Mrs W complains that the cost of the pet insurance policy she was sold by Bought By Many 
Ltd has increased significantly and that it wasnt made clear to her that this could happen.
Background
Mrs W took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2017 online with Bought By Many.  
In her first renewal she was shocked to see the premium had risen by 35% and she made a 
complaint. She says the price increase is unfair and unreasonable. Mrs W is unhappy that it 
wasnt explained in Bought By Manys marketing and policy material that policyholders could 
expect to see significant price increases. 
Mrs Ws premium increased again in 2019 by a further 40%. She says she feels locked into 
the policy as due to her dogs age she cant find like for like cover elsewhere. And as she 
hadnt budgeted for the increases the policy is likely to become unaffordable for her. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should explain that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the
insurance cover it provides, and I dont have the power to tell a business what its
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say that the cost of Mrs Ws policy is too high, 
that she should have been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in 
the future.
Insurance premiums are calculated so that they can reasonably be expected to cover the
likely claims arising from an insurance contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally based on the probability of the insured
event occurring, combined with the likely financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers
take a number of different factors into account when doing this calculation and thats not 
something we will interfere with.
Insurers will typically, each year, revisit and reassess the risk, based on the volume and
cost of claims its customers have made. So if the cost of paying claims increases
significantly, an insurer will revisit the way it calculates its premiums to make sure it can 
continue to cover claims in the future  theres nothing wrong with it doing this.
An insurer is unlikely continue to provide any cover if it knows its going to make a
loss. It could find itself in a position where theres no money to pay the claims. So
its fair for an insurer to take steps to avoid this happening. Unfortunately for Mrs W, this 
meant she saw her premium increase more than she expected.
While Mrs Ws premium has increased, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Bought By 
Many has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the 
same position. So I cant say Bought By Many has singled her out and treated her unfairly 
compared to its other customers or that Bought By Many needs to offer her cover for a lower 
premium going forwards.
I know this is disappointing for Mrs W. I understand this situation has caused her frustration
and upset. But I dont think Bought By Many has done anything wrong by increasing the cost 
of the policy as it did.
Ive also thought carefully about the information Bought By Many gave Mrs W when she 
brought the policy.  
In 2017 when Mrs W took out her lifetime pet insurance policy, the relevant rules about what 
a business should do when selling insurance could be found in ICOBS Insurance: Conduct 
of Business sourcebook. These set out that, when selling insurance, businesses must take 
reasonable steps to give customers appropriate information about a policy in good time and 
in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed. This includes drawing the consumers attention to and highlighting 
the main provisions of the policy and the significant limitations and exclusions. 
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a
greater level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding the long-term
cost and cover for customers with these policies as the cost doesnt stay the same for the life 
of the policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and the 
cost of veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to changes in 
insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high the 
cost could be. 
I recognise it wouldnt be possible for Bought By Many to tell Mrs W exactly what was going 
to happen with the price of her policy. But I think she needed clearer information about the 
potential long-term cost implications so she could understand that she might end up in the 
position she is now in  with a policy that is becoming unaffordable for her. The policy was 
being marketed as lifetime insurance, so she understandably expected to keep it for the 
rest of her dogs life. She needed clearer information to properly understand what it was she 
was buying  so she could make an informed choice. But, having looked at the information 
Bought By Many gave Mrs W about the policy at the sale, I dont think it gave her clear 
enough information about the potential costs.
Bought By Many has sent us a screenshot of some of the information Mrs W was given
during the sale and I can see it says that premiums may increase. But I dont think this 
makes clear the long-term risk that the cost of the policy could rise to an amount much more 
than the initial cost was made clear enough. Ive also seen a copy of the terms and 
conditions of the policy and I cant see there is any mention of premium increases in the 
document. 
Where I find something has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it
hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Mrs W chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her dog. And 
shes told us that she wanted to take out a lifetime policy, as she wanted the greater level of 
cover it provided. Mrs W says that at the time she couldnt find any other insurer - she felt 
was reputable - to take lifetime cover with. I can also see that her Bought By Many policy 
has a MoneyBack benefit (for every year you dont claim you receive 20% of your annual 
premium back). This is an uncommon benefit for these types of policy. So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with this policy, even if shed known the premium could 
increase significantly in the future  and she accepts this is a possibility.
Even if Mrs W had taken a different policy, it is impossible to know what Mrs W could have 
ended up with  it might have been cheaper but it might also have ended up being more 
expensive. I do think its likely she would have been paying for some pet insurance. And its 
unlikely better information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted 
in Mrs W paying a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance 
tend operate in a similar way.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs W wasnt so
shocked or upset when the cost increased as it did  instead this would have been
something she would have known could happen.
Mrs W says shes now unable to change insurer due to her pets age. I do recognise that it 
might be more difficult for Mrs W to find a policy to cover her older dog. But a number of 
insurers do now offer insurance for older pets and as Mrs W has told us her pet doesnt have 
any existing conditions, I think it would be possible for her to find cover elsewhere. I 
appreciate that Mrs W says the companies she has looked at that offer lifetime policies are 
not ones that she is familiar with. But its Mrs Ws decision whether to continue with Bought 
By Many or not. 
However, I appreciate that Mrs W is now in is position she didnt expect to find herself in 
when she took out a lifetime policy. Better information about the policy wouldve meant that 
she could have been more prepared for the possibility that she might not be able to afford to 
continue with the policy and have to make a difficult decision about what to do.
I think this lack of clear information has caused Mrs W some trouble and upset. So I think
Bought By Many should pay her £150 as compensation for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Bought By Many should pay Mrs W £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman