DRN-3846325
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a disputed payment 
made from her current account. 
What happened
Miss C says that in December 2021 her phone was stolen while she was on a night out. The 
next morning Miss C saw she had received an email saying her online banking had been 
reset and so she contacted NatWest to see what had gone on. NatWest identified that a 
payment for around £960 had been made from Miss Cs account in the early hours of the 
morning, Miss C says she did not make this payment herself.
NatWest investigated and decided not to refund the disputed payment. It said it could not 
see how a fraudster would have been able to gain access to Miss Cs mobile phone and 
then to her online banking in order to reset it and add a new device so the payment could be 
made. NatWest also didnt think that the payment was indicative of fraud.
As Miss C didnt agree with NatWests decision, she asked us to investigate. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the disputed payment should be refunded. In summary, 
they felt that there was no plausible explanation for how someone could have accessed 
Miss Cs phone and online banking to make the payment. But the Investigator did think that 
the poor service Miss C had received on the phone when she first reported the payment 
merited some compensation, and recommended NatWest pay Miss C £50 to recognise the 
impact of its service. 
NatWest agreed with the Investigators findings, but Miss C did not, so the case has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Miss C is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them 
herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, the key question here is whether NatWest has acted fairly in concluding that Miss C did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Miss C says her phone was stolen at around midnight on 3 December 2021. NatWests 
records show that Miss Cs online banking was then accessed at around 4am on 
4 December 2021. Her online banking was logged into using her PIN/password. A new 
user/mobile device was then enrolled in her online banking, NatWest has told us that in 
order to re-enrol in online banking the user would have needed:
-Either Miss Cs customer number and debit card number OR her full name, date of 
birth and post code; then
- Miss Cs sort code and account number or her debit card details; then
- For the change to be validated by a one-time payment code being sent to Miss Cs 
existing registered device.
Shortly afterwards this new mobile device was then used to log into Miss Cs online banking 
and to make the payment that is in dispute here. So it seems clear that Miss Cs details were 
used to log into her account and set up the new device so that this payment could be made. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
NatWest to hold her liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
its more likely than not that Miss C consented to the payment being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Miss C 
more likely than not authorised the transactions. Specifically, given that Im satisfied Miss Cs 
correct online banking details were used to log into her account and that significant personal 
details would then be needed to add the new device, I cant see how any other party could 
have got hold of those details. I appreciate that Miss C says her phone was stolen, but even 
if someone had been able to see her passcode for her phone and then access her phone 
using that code, that does not explain how theyd have been able to obtain the security 
details to access her online banking or to get all the details needed to re-enrol in online 
banking with a new device. So I agree with our Investigator that the information Miss C has 
given to us doesnt suggest any plausible way that a fraudster could have gained access to 
her online banking to add the new device.
I appreciate that Miss C has seen various news reports about fraudsters hacking mobile 
phones and online banking. But Ive not seen anything to show thats what happened here, 
and Im not aware of any wider issue with the type of phone Miss C had or with NatWests 
online banking or mobile app that would have meant it was easy for a fraudster to access the 
details needed to make this payment.
I also note that the payment itself does not suggest fraudulent activity. Miss C had over 
£2,000 in her account at the time of the payment, but under half of this was spent and only 
one transaction was attempted. And while I appreciate Miss Cs comment that there was a 
daily limit on her account for payments from the app of £1,000 before further security would 
be required, that still means that the payment was around £40 below the limit. Thats strange 
behaviour for a fraudster, who we would expect to try to maximise their profit by spending as 
much as they could.
Miss C has also commented that the payment was out of character for her account and that 
it should have been flagged by NatWest as suspicious, but I dont agree that is the case. The 
payment wasnt large enough to necessarily flag as potential fraud and wasnt consistent 
with other fraud trends  for example, it didnt empty Miss Cs account. 
Taking everything into account, I think, on balance, that NatWest was reasonable to 
conclude that Miss C more likely than not authorised this payment. It follows that NatWest is 
entitled to hold her liable for it.I do though agree that the service Miss C was given when she contacted NatWest about the 
payment could have been better, she was passed around between teams and calls were 
ended unexpectedly before she was able to get the assistance she needed. Ive noted 
NatWest has agreed with our Investigators findings that it should pay Miss C £50 in 
recognition of any distress caused by that poor service. And Im satisfied that offer is fair in 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
NatWest should pay Miss C £50, if it has not done so already.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman