DRN-4300535
The complaint
X complains that West Bay Insurance plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a large sports utility vehicle, first
registered in 2016.
X acquired the vehicle in 2019 (according to the 2022 policy schedule).
For the year from mid-September 2022, X had the vehicle insured on a policy branded with
the name of a retailer and arranged by an insurance intermediary. West Bay was the insurer
responsible for dealing with any claim. Any claim (except a glass claim) was subject to an
excess of £425.00.
Unfortunately, in mid-October 2022, X reported that someone had stolen the vehicle.
In late October 2022, X agreed to buy a replacement vehicle for about £35,000.
West Bay said that Xs old vehicle was a total loss and that its pre-theft value had been
£30,000.00.
By mid-December 2022, X had complained to West Bay that it wasnt paying him enough
and hadnt offered him an interim payment.
By a final response dated mid-January 2023, West Bay turned down the complaint about the
valuation. It referred to figures in the trade guides as follows:
CAP £25,987.00
Glass £27,200.00
Cazoo £31,662.00
But West Bay accepted that there had been delay in responding to Xs request for an interim
payment. It said it was sending X a cheque for £100.00 compensation. 
A few days later, X brought his complaint to us.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator
thought that West Bays valuation fairly reflected the market value of the vehicle, and the
offer of compensation for the delays and inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to X and 
to West Bay on 2 August 2023. I summarise my findings:
The market value of the vehicle formed a cap on the amount of any claim for the theft 
of the vehicle and its accessories. So I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct West 
Bay to pay X any separate amount for the roof bars.
I didnt find that West Bay treated X unfairly by its valuation.
West Bay shouldve offered an interim payment when X disputed the valuation in 
November 2022.
I was satisfied that £100.00 was fair enough for distress and inconvenience. 
Subject to any further information from X or from West Bay, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct West Bay Insurance plc to:
pay X (in addition to its payment of £100.00 for distress and inconvenience) simple 
interest on £29,575.00 at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of his claim to the date of 
its interim payment. If West Bay considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from this interest, it shall tell X how much it has 
deducted and provide X with a certificate so that X may reclaim the tax if appropriate.
X disagreed with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, that: 
The insurance doesn't cover the real- world cost of replacing the loss with a similar 
vehicle at short notice at the time in question from a reputable dealer.
The accessories are also mentioned as covered. If a car with accessories, and a car 
without accessories, are both covered to the same value, then the accessories are 
effectively not covered, and the policy wording (to say that they are) is misleading. 
An award at least in the mid-range (say £200.00), if not at the upper end of the range 
would have been reasonably appropriate. 
West Bay accepted the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
It agrees to add 8% interest from the offer date of 22 November 2022 to the payment 
date of 10 January 2023, which is a net interest amount of £255.82. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Roof Bars
The policy terms included the following:
3 Fire and theft
What is covered under this section
This section provides you with cover for loss or damage to the car and its
accessories caused by fire, theft or attempted theft. The insurer will decide either to;
 pay to have the damage repaired; or pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it;
or
 pay you an amount equal to the loss or damage

The insurer will not pay more than the market value of the car at the time of the loss
unless the new car benefit applies.
So there was cover for the theft of the vehicle and its accessories. But that cover was limited
to the market value of the vehicle. (The new car benefit only applied to a vehicle that was
less than 12 months old.)
Ive seen the invoice for Xs replacement vehicle. It includes £336.00 including VAT for roof 
bars. I find it likely that the value of Xs old roof bars was less than that. In any event, I dont 
accept that they were covered over and above the market value of the vehicle.
Rather, I consider that the market value of the vehicle formed a cap on the amount of any
claim for the theft of the vehicle and its accessories. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to
direct West Bay to pay X any separate amount for the roof bars.
In response to the provisional decision, X says that the accessories werent effectively 
covered. But I find that the meaning of the policy term is plain. Its possible that accessories 
would add to the market value of the insured vehicle. But theres not enough evidence that 
Xs old roof bars added to the market value of his vehicle.
Market Value
We expect an insurer to value a used vehicle by reference to the retail figures in certain
trade guides. We usually find those figures persuasive because they are based on extensive
research of likely selling prices.
Compared to the guides, we usually find advertisements less reliable because they contain
sellers asking prices that may be subject to negotiation downwards.
Typically, each guide contains a different figure so that they form a range. We may disregard
any figure thats significantly out of line with the others. Subject to that, we often say that any
figure in the range is fair and reasonable.
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition of Xs vehicle.
Ive mentioned the roof bars. I also accept Xs evidence that his vehicle had corrosion
protection and a new engine. I also accept his evidence that immediately before the theft,
the vehicle was in above-average condition. However, I havent seen enough evidence to
show that any of those features made it unfair to use the retail figures in the trade guides.
For a vehicle like Xs, Ive seen retail figures in the trade guides as follows:
CAP £25,987.00
Glass £27,200.00
Auto Trader £29,553.00
Cazoo £31,662.00
I dont disregard any of those figures as an outlier.West Bays figure of £30,000.00 is well within the range of those figures  and towards the
top end of it. So I dont find that West Bay treated X unfairly by its valuation. I dont find it fair
and reasonable to direct West Bay to increase its valuation or to pay X any more for his lost
vehicle.
In response to the provisional decision, X has said that West Bays figure wasnt enough to 
pay for a similar replacement vehicle. But Im satisfied that West Bays figure was fair in line 
with our usual approach.
Interim payment
X asked for an interim payment on about 12 December 2022. On about 30 December 2022,
West Bay agreed and asked for Xs bank details so that it could make the interim payment. X
provided those details on about 7 January 2023.
In mid-January 2023, West Bay made an interim payment of £30,000.00 less the excess of
£425.00, that is £29,575.00.
West Bays final response said that it shouldve responded more promptly after the request 
on about 12 December 2022. However, I consider that West Bay shouldve offered an 
interim payment when X disputed the valuation in November 2022.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct West Bay to pay X interest at our usual rate.
The provisional decision included interest to start from the date of the claim (mid-October 
2022). In response, West Bay has contended for interest to start from the date of its offer (22 
November 2022). On reflection, I consider that, from the date of the claim, I should allow one 
month before I would say that an interim payment shouldve been made, and interest should 
start to run. I intend to leave it to West Bay and X to work out the amount of gross interest 
and any deduction for income tax.
Distress and inconvenience
In my view, the theft and the need to make a claim were bound to cause X upset and put him
to some trouble. That included the need to make calls and to provide information to his
insurer.
However, I consider that West Bay was responsible for some delays and shortcomings in its
communication. And that caused X to make extra phone calls and to have to repeat
information.
I give West Bay credit for its payment of £100.00.
Also, I take the view that much of Xs distress and inconvenience was to do with being kept
out of his money, for which interest is compensation. 
In response to the provisional decision, X has contended for increased compensation. But 
Im, keeping in mind that I havent upheld his complaint that West Bay under-valued his 
vehicle. Im also keeping in mind that Im awarding interest on the £29,575.00. So Im 
satisfied that £100.00 is fair enough for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I conclude that its fair and reasonable to direct West Bay to pay X (in addition to its payment of £100.00 for distress and inconvenience) simple interest on £29,575.00 at a yearly rate of 
8% from the date one month after his claim to the date of its interim payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct West Bay Insurance plc to:
pay X (in addition to its payment of £100.00 for distress and inconvenience) simple 
interest on £29,575.00 at a yearly rate of 8% from the date one month after his claim 
to the date of its interim payment. If West Bay considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from this interest, it shall tell X how much 
it has deducted and provide X with a certificate so that X may reclaim the tax if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman