DRN-3554328
The complaint
Mr P complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave him a 
running account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 17 February 2020, Mr P applied for a running account credit facility with Studio Retail. 
He was given an initial credit limit of £150. The credit limit was increased on one occasion 
in April 2020 to £200. 
In 2021, Mr P complained to Studio Retail to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Studio Retail ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ps complaint is that Studio Retail made credit available that was unaffordable. Studio 
Retail has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Studio Retail failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Mr P with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Studio Retail to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were 
unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit and subsequent credit increase were modest and 
the maximum monthly payments for that credit would have been relatively modest. And 
subsequently through the credit increase the account was largely well managed. 
I have noted the defaults on the credit file that Mr P has provided. I note that at the time of 
the credit opening there had been two defaults. But I also note that one of those defaults 
was settled and the other happened over two years before. So, I dont think either of these 
would have put off Studio Retail from providing this credit. I have also considered the 
adverse markings I have seen on Mr Ps credit report. On balance I dont think that had 
Studio Retail been aware of them, that they would have put them off providing the very 
modest credit it did in 2020. 
Im mindful of what Mr P told us about his current circumstances and I am sorry to hear of 
them. But this case must be judged on the circumstances that pertained at the time the 
initial credit and the credit increase were provided. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr P to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Studio Retail to think that the credit it 
provided Mr P was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr P was 
managing his account or what Studio Retail could see of his management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr P to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman