DRN-3045406
The complaint
Ms B complains that her residential property investors insurance was mis-sold to her by 
Lumley Insurance Limited.  
What happened
Ms B has arranged her insurances through her broker, Lumley, for a number of years, 
including one for a property she rents out. In 2019 there was an escape of water at the 
property. Damage was caused and a claim lodged and accepted by the insurer. The insurer 
initially tried to find alternative accommodation for the tenant but in the end the tenant 
decided they would rather terminate the tenancy to avoid the upheaval of moving to 
temporary accommodation and back again. 
The policy included cover for loss of rent whilst the property was uninhabitable. Once repairs 
are completed and the property can be re-let, any further period of lost rent isnt covered by 
the policy. The insurer said it would cover Ms Bs claim for lost rent under the policy terms. 
Ms B complained to the insurer that she would continue to lose rent between repairs 
completing and the property being reoccupied with a new tenant. 
Ms Bs insurer looked into her complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it would indemnify her for 
her lost rent in line with the policy terms. The insurer pointed out to Ms B that her policy 
included the option to take out enhanced loss of rent cover which, had it been selected by 
her, would have covered her for lost rent until she was able to re-let the property. But, it said, 
she hadnt chosen to take it out and it couldnt now add the cover retrospectively. 
Ms B then raised the issue of the enhanced loss of rent cover with Lumley. It said that the 
insurers position regarding loss of rent cover was correct as per the policy terms and it 
couldnt force coverage where none existed. But, it said, once the repairs were nearing 
completion there was no reason the property couldnt be marketed for a future occupancy 
date. It also said that loss of rent cover was automatically included with the buildings cover 
and that there had been no available option to select the enhanced loss of rent cover when 
itd been arranging the policy. 
Ms Bs policy renewed in August 2019 and her premium more than doubled. Ms B 
complained to Lumley about the increased cost of her insurance and that it hadnt offered or 
arranged enhanced loss of rent cover as part of her policy. Lumley contacted the insurer to 
ask about the additional cover and the fact its system didnt allow it to select it when 
obtaining a quote. It also asked the insurer how much the enhanced cover would have cost 
Ms B if it had been offered. The insurer said it couldnt say as each individual case was 
subject to its own individual underwriting at the time. The insurer said the enhanced cover 
wasnt something it normally offered clients. 
Lumley looked into Ms Bs complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It issued its 
final response to her complaint in November 2020. It said it had no control over the premium 
charged as that was a matter for the insurer. It said itd tried to find her cover with a cheaper 
premium but was unable to do so because there was a high value open claim against her 
existing policy. With respect to Ms Bs loss of rent it said the enhanced loss of rent option 
was shown on her policy schedule as non-operative because the insurer automatically 
included loss of rent cover within the buildings cover section of the policy as a standard 
benefit. It said there was no option on the quotation system for it to add enhanced loss of 
rent cover to the policy. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to Lumley, Ms B complained to this service that 
Lumley had mis-sold her policy that only included loss of rent cover until the property was 
inhabitable rather than when it was occupied.
At the August 2021 renewal Ms B changed brokers. Her new broker was only able to get her 
a quote from one insurer because of the recent claim; the insurer was the same one as 
Lumley had been placing Ms Bs cover with. Two quotes were obtained  one including the 
enhanced loss of rent cover and one without. Ms B selected the latter. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
was satisfied that Lumley had made Ms B aware of the policy terms and had brought the 
loss of rent cover to Ms Bs attention. And he was also satisfied that the enhanced loss of 
rent cover wasnt available when quoting her cover. So, he said, he didnt think Ms Bs policy 
had been mis-sold by Lumley. He said there was no evidence either that Ms B wouldve 
acted any differently had she known about the enhanced loss of rent cover. 
Ms B disagreed with our investigators findings. She said the enhanced loss of rent cover 
had clearly been an option all along (as evidenced by the fact shed just taken out her annual 
policy through another broker but with the same insurer and had been quoted two prices, 
one without enhanced loss of rent cover and one with) but itd not been offered to her.  
Our investigator then asked Ms B and Lumley for some further information. Lumley 
explained that itd told Ms B that itd be a good idea to start marketing the property for rent a 
good two months before the repairs were due to complete. And it said that the enhanced 
cover that Ms B was referring to was, in reality, an extension to the standard loss of rent 
cover whereby it would provide an extension of that cover should the policy limit be 
exceeded (and other factors met). 
Lumley said Ms B was referring to cover being available for lost rent for the period between 
repairs being completed and new tenants taking up occupancy. But, it said the optional 
cover she was referring to in the policy wouldnt have provided cover in this scenario. It said 
the insurer had also confirmed this; namely this type of cover wasnt available. 
Ms B told our investigator that shed relied on Lumley over the years to give her the best 
advice and sell her a policy most suitable for her needs. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
noted that from the information provided that Lumley itself hadnt been responsible for the 
original sale of the policy in 2011 (having been sold by another broker) so he couldnt 
reasonably hold Lumley responsible for it. He thought the information Lumley had sent at 
later renewals had been in order and that itd been able to show that even if the enhanced 
cover had been requested the insurer was unlikely to have offered it. 
And he thought that the cost of Ms Bs policy wouldve been significantly higher in the years 
prior to the claim if she had been able to take out the enhanced loss of rent cover. This was 
based on the difference in cost of the policy with, and without, the cover quoted at the 
August 2021 renewal. Our investigator said that it didnt appear that Ms B had elected to 
take out the policy with the enhanced cover in August 2021 so, based on that, it was 
reasonable to assume that even if she had been given the option to include the cover prior to 
the claim, she wouldnt have elected to do so. So our investigator was satisfied that, even if Lumley had offered Ms B the enhanced loss of rent cover, she wouldnt have taken it out 
because of the significantly increased cost of doing so. 
Ms B replied to say that she disagreed with our investigators findings. She said shed been 
at odds with various parties during the period of the claim and was looking for some form of 
redress. She said shed lost a very nice tenant in the process and incurred numerous 
additional expenses as a result of the claim and that Lumley didnt appear to be fighting her 
corner enough. She said she hadnt taken out the enhanced cover at the 2021 renewal. But 
she said Lumley had said to her that the enhanced loss of rent cover wasnt available to her 
and she believed it. Ms B said that that now doesnt appear to be true given that shed been 
offered it this year. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Ms B, I dont think her complaint can 
reasonably be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The documentation Ive seen that was sent to Ms B by Lumley (after it assumed the 
brokerage) at each renewal appears to me to be in order. Lumley did what was required of it 
for an advised sale and theres no evidence it made an error based on the information 
provided to it by Ms B which would allow me to fairly conclude itd sold her an unsuitable 
policy. All the relevant information I would expect to see when recommending and arranging 
an insurance policy of this nature was provided to Ms B and it was her responsibility to read 
the documentation she was provided with to make sure the policy she had been sold met her 
requirements. 
From the available evidence I can see that the policy does indeed provide loss of rent cover 
and that Ms B was indemnified by the insurer for the rent she lost whilst the property was 
uninhabitable. Its my understanding that there was a shortish gap between the repairs 
finishing and replacement tenants being found. But this was a period when the property was 
deemed habitable so the standard loss of rent cover on Ms Bs policy didnt apply. 
Ms B is required to mitigate her losses though. I can see that Lumley suggested to her that 
she market the property for rent in the run up to the repairs being completed. But it is unclear 
to me why there was a gap between the completion of the repairs and the next tenant 
moving in. And on reviewing the policy terms it seems to me that the enhanced cover 
indemnifies the policyholder for loss of rent solely in consequence of the damage being 
claimed for. It doesnt appear to me to cover a scenario where the repairs are completed and 
the property is habitable but, for some other non-damage related reason, it hasnt been re-let 
to a new tenant. 
Ive seen a number of policy schedules and they all state that the enhanced loss of rent 
cover is not operative. So Im satisfied that Ms B knew she didnt have this cover. And Im 
satisfied from the evidence that the enhanced loss of rent cover wasnt available for Lumley 
to accept as an option on the insurers system. Ive seen no evidence that Ms B ever asked 
Lumley about the cover.
Even if I were to accept that Lumley shouldve highlighted the cover to Ms B and told her it 
was an option she could exercise, Ive seen no evidence that she wouldve done so. I say 
that because at her 2021 renewal Ms Bs new broker arranged a policy with an annual 
premium of £2,743.32 which didnt include the enhanced cover. I can see that Ms B asked the broker how much the premium would be if the enhanced loss of rent cover was included 
and was given a price of £3,285.99 which she didnt proceed with. Ive also seen a number 
of emails, and a complaint from Ms B, that her premium doubled in 2019 (to £1,312.49) 
following the claim and increased again in 2020 and 2021. So I think its reasonable to 
assume that the price of her policy was important to Ms B and Im not persuaded, that even 
if the option had been put to her by Lumley, she wouldve chosen to pay for the enhanced 
cover.
As Ms B didnt pay for it, and as Im not persuaded that she wouldve done so if itd been 
offered to her, I dont think I can reasonably say she has suffered any detriment as a result 
of not having this cover. As I think its reasonable to assume she never wouldve chosen to 
take it out even if it had been highlighted as an option, I cant fairly conclude shes suffered 
any loss from not having it. I know Ms B has said she accepted what Lumley had said about 
the enhanced cover not being available to her but that has turned out not to be true 
(because her new broker offered it to her this year). But, as Ive said, Im not persuaded she 
wouldve done anything different even if Lumley had told her she could have the enhanced 
cover. 
Ms B has said that shes incurred expense with the claim, suffered the loss of a good tenant 
and is looking for redress. But this complaint is about her policy being mis-sold so I cant 
look at these complaints here. Ms B would need to raise these issues with Lumley first, 
should she wish to do so, so it has the opportunity to address them. And, in any event, I 
cant make Lumley pay redress for the actions of others. That wouldnt be fair. 
So, it follows that this is a complaint that I cant fairly or reasonably uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman