DRN-4214367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Amtrust Europe Limited declined an insurance claim for to 
damage to their sofa.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an insurance policy, underwritten by Amtrust, which provides cover 
for their sofa. When they noticed a mark on the sofa they made a claim on the policy.
Amtrust arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa. They said they had checked the mark 
and it was due to grease and staining which had built up over time. Amtrust said this wasnt 
covered by the policy and rejected the claim.
Mr and Mrs B complained but Amtrust didnt change its position. When they referred the 
complaint to this service our investigator said Amtrust had applied the policy terms correctly, 
so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree and have requested an ombudsmans decision. They say Amtrust 
has changed its policy and is not applying the policy terms in line with the policy they bought.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for sudden accidental damage and stains. Theres no cover for 
wear and tear or stains that happen gradually over time. 
Amtrust arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa. They examined the sofa and carried 
out a heat test. The technician said the issue was caused by a build up of grease 
contamination over time; it wasnt accidental damage.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs B say about the nature of the staining, and I know they say 
the technician caused further damage when he carried out the heat test. But the report is 
clear that this isnt accidental damage; its something that happened gradually, and damage 
wasnt caused by the testing. Its reasonable for Amtrust to make its decision based on 
expert advice. 
While Mr and Mrs B disagree, they havent provided any independent report. In the absence 
of that and based on what the technician appointed by Amtrust has reported, Im satisfied its 
decision is in line with the policy terms and is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman