DRN-3150253
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to help when they fell 
victim to an investment scam. 
The loss occurred from a joint account, but for ease of reading and as hes done all the 
correspondence on the complaint, Ill only refer to Mr S. Mr S has more recently used a 
representative to help with his complaint, but again Ill ascribe the comments of the 
representative to Mr S himself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In March 2019 Mr S made a payment for 
£15,000 via online banking from his account. At the time he believed he was funding an 
investment with a firm Ill refer to as R. He says at the time he did checks to ensure that R 
were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
A few months later Mr S saw information online which suggested R might be a scam. He did 
further research and discovered that hed been dealing with scammers whod impersonated 
the genuine R. He contacted Barclays and reported that hed been the victim of a scam. 
Barclays contacted the bank that had received the payments but unfortunately no funds 
were able to be recovered. 
Mr S complained, he thinks Barclays should reimburse him as hes been a genuine victim of 
a scam. Barclays said they couldnt refund Mr S, but they did offer £50 compensation for 
some service failings. Mr S didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she didnt think Barclays reasonably could have prevented Mr S loss. As he still disagrees, 
Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr S as his strength of feeling on the matter is clear, so Ill explain why. 
Part of Mr S submissions refer to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is a 
voluntary code (which Barclays have signed up to) which in certain circumstances allows 
victims of authorised push payment scams to receive reimbursement from the banks 
involved. But this wasnt introduced until May 2019 and it wasnt retrospective. Mr S 
payment was made in March 2019, prior to the introduction of the CRM. So it doesnt apply 
to this complaint and cant be used as the basis for asking Barclays to do more. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr S instructed the payment for £15,000 through his online banking. 
So, the starting point is that Barclays ought to follow his instruction. However, Barclays also 
have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests. So, there 
will be circumstances where its appropriate to stop and question a payment before releasing 
it. There is obviously a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and 
allowing customers free access to their funds. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr S instruction to send £15,000 to a new payee was 
so unusual or out of character for him and his account that I think Barclays ought to have 
intervened. I dont think it was and Ill explain why. It wasnt uncommon for Mr S to make 
large payments (of similar and greater value) from his account. In the few months prior to the 
scam, Mr S made payments of £25,000, £40,000 and £30,000 from his account. Ive 
considered his submissions as to the reasons for those payments as well as him saying that 
the scam payment was to a new payee. But even if the payments Ive mentioned above 
were to existing payees, Im not persuaded that alone is enough to think its reasonable to 
have expected Barclays to have intervened. I just dont think the £15,000 scam payment 
would have stood out in any way to Barclays as unusual or suspicious. 
I appreciate that more recently initiatives such as confirmation of payee (which allows the 
sender of funds to check the name on the account they are paying matches what they 
expect) have been introduced. But at the time of the payment it was correctly executed if it 
was sent to the unique identifiers or sort code and account number specified. There was no 
requirement for Barclays to do more or to check the beneficiary name or any references prior 
to processing the payment. Overall I dont think Barclays were wrong to follow the instruction 
Mr S provided or that the payment was incorrectly executed.
As I dont think Barclays ought to have done more when the payment was made, Ive gone 
on to consider their actions in attempting recovery once notified of the problem. Mr S 
contacted Barclays in July 2019 once hed discovered the scam. Im satisfied Barclays 
promptly reported this to the receiving bank who later said that no funds remained to be 
returned. I dont think Barclays could have done more to try to recover Mr S funds. 
Mr S has also highlighted a media article where another person fell victim to a similar scam 
and received reimbursement from their own bank (which wasnt Barclays). That 
reimbursement was for a far greater sum than Mr S loss. He doesnt understand why he 
shouldnt also be refunded. Ive taken this into account, but I can only consider the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. There are a variety of reasons why a bank might 
choose to refund their customer. But just because another bank took a decision to do so in 
broadly similar circumstances, that doesnt oblige Barclays to follow suit. 
And whilst I understand this isnt a core part of Mr S complaint, for completeness, I also find 
the offer of £50 compensation to be fair. I think this is sufficient to compensate for the impact 
of any service failings by Barclays in their overall handling of the matter. If Mr S hasnt 
already accepted this and would like to, he should contact Barclays to arrange this.  
Im of course sorry to hear Mr S lost such a significant amount of money. And I accept he 
has been the victim of a cruel and callous scam. But being a victim in this way doesnt 
automatically entitle him to a refund from Barclays. It would only be fair for me to tell them to 
reimburse him if I think they either caused the loss or hindered its recovery. And as I dont 
think they did, I cant fairly tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman