DRN-4310021
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim he made on his home 
insurance policy. Any reference to UKI in this final decision includes its respective agents 
unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved, so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mr C made a successful claim on his UKI home insurance policy for damage caused 
to doors at his property. A replacement double glazed unit was required as part of 
this repair. UKIs contractors carried out the works.
Mr C later discovered the replacement unit only carried a five-year warranty, but the 
original double glazing that had been damaged had a warranty extending to 2030 
(seven years). Mr C said UKI told him it would replace items on a like for like basis 
and not to any lower standard than what he originally had. He therefore asked UKI to 
extend the warranty of the new unit to match the length of the one he had pre-loss.
UKI said the replacement unit was of the same standard  if not better due to 
regulation changes. It said the warranty on this couldnt be extended as it was a 
standard guarantee its contractors offered on all their products. And that the loss of 
warranty wasnt covered under Mr Cs policy.
Mr C complained to UKI. He said replacing the unit to the same standard as the 
original should include the warranty. Not doing so made Mr C believe the 
replacement unit was of a lower standard. He said if UKIs contractors couldnt 
extend this, it should replace the unit again using a contractor that could.
UKI maintained its position, so Mr C brought a complaint to this Service. Our 
Investigator didnt uphold it. He said UKI had treated Mr C fairly and didnt need to do 
anything further. Mr C disagreed and the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
. 
When settling a claim under the policy UKI is entitled to repair or rebuild the 
damaged part using our own suppliers.
In this case, UKIs contractors carried out repairs to the damage caused at Mr Cs 
property. Part of that process involved replacing a double-glazed unit. Id expect this 
item to be the same, or as close as is possible to the item that was damaged. 
UKI say the replacement double glazed unit is of at least the same standard and 
specification as the original unit and its provided comments from its contractor which 
support this. So, on balance of what Ive seen, Im persuaded it settled the claim fairly 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr C thinks that UKI should extend the warranty of the replacement unit if its of the 
same quality as the original. UKI says Mr Cs policy covers damage to his buildings  
not his warranty. And as set out above Im satisfied UKI has fairly rectified the 
damage to his building under the claim.
Other than Mr Cs opinion on the matter, Ive not seen further evidence to persuade 
me that the standard, or quality of the replacement unit has been (or will be) 
impacted by the warranty thats been offered in this case by UKI. So, I wont be 
directing UKI to do anything further in relation to this.
As has already been explained to Mr C, its a general fair and reasonable principle 
that any repair carried out should be effective and lasting. This means it should 
properly resolve the damage and for a reasonable period of time. 
With that in mind, Mr C is welcome to speak with UKI should any future issues arise 
with the area of double glazing it repaired. UKI should bear in mind its policy 
guarantees its work and the wider fair and reasonable principle of carrying out an 
effective and lasting repair. Depending on the circumstances, UKI should at that point 
consider whether theres more for it to do.
As it stands theres nothing to suggest this principle hasnt been met based on the 
current available evidence and so I dont think theres any more for UKI to do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman