DRN-2676772
The complaint
Your text here
What happened
Mr T holds an account with Nationwide. A feature of this account is that account holders are 
entered into a prize draw to win £100, so long as the account holder pays £100 into the 
account each month for three consecutive months prior to the draw. If money is withdrawn 
from the account, then in order to be eligible for the prize draw, the account holder must pay 
that money back into the account, as well as the additional credit of £100 for that month.
Mr T won the prize draw in July 2020 and £100 was credited to his account, which Mr T 
withdrew that same month. Mr T then noticed that he hadnt been entered into the next prize 
draw, despite making the necessary payments into the account. So, Mr T made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ts complaint and found that because hed withdrawn the 
prizemoney in the same month it was paid to him their systems recognised this as a 
withdrawal on the account, which affected his eligibility for the next prize drawer. Nationwide 
apologised to M T for this, and they made a payment of £100 to Mr T as compensation.
Mr T didnt feel that Nationwides offer of compensation went far enough, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that 
the £100 compensation that Nationwide had offered was fair, so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide explained in their complaint response to Mr T that whilst their systems didnt 
recognise the prizemoney as a credit to the account, it did treat any money withdrawn from 
the account, including any prizemoney received, as a withdrawal. So, in this instance, 
because Mr T withdrew the prize money, this meant that Nationwides system thought the 
account was in a negative position regarding credits, which meant that Mr T didnt meet the 
criteria to be entered into the next prize draw.
Nationwide acknowledged that it wasnt clear to account holders that this would be the case, 
and they have since made amendments to their systems which now allows customers to 
withdraw prize draw winnings within the same month that the prizemoney was received 
without any issue.
Nationwide dont dispute that Mr T incurred some inconvenience here. Whats in dispute is 
whether the £100 compensation payment made by Nationwide to Mr T represents a fair 
resolution to Mr Ts complaint.
Matters of compensation are often very subjective, and an offer that is considered fair and 
reasonable by one party might not be considered so by another. And Im aware that Mr T 
doesnt feel that the £100 paid by Nationwide adequately reflects the inconvenience this 
matter has caused.
However, the payment of £100 that Nationwide made here does feel fair and reasonable to 
me, especially as the amount Nationwide have paid is equal to the amount which Mr T might 
have won had he been entered into the prize draw - as should have been the case - and 
been a winner in that draw. 
I understand that Mr T feels that because the £100 compensation was paid to him at a later 
date than he would have received the prize money from the later prize draw he has missed 
out on potential interest for that period of time. But its difficult to agree with Mr Ts position 
here, especially considering that theres no guarantee that Mr T would have been a winner of 
the later prize draw, had he been entered.
It follows that I feel that the £100 compensation that Nationwide have already paid to Mr T 
here represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, and this means that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Nationwide to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, given everything that I have explained above, why I have reached the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman