DRN-3323129
The complaint
Mr G complains that Urban Jungle Services Ltd (Urban Jungle) gave him unclear information 
about a home contents policy he was buying. He says because of this hes had a 
subsequent claim refused by an insurer and his policy was avoided (treated as if it never 
existed). 
What happened
Mr G was buying an insurance policy for the contents of his property online. He was using a 
service provided by Urban Jungle which was acting as a financial intermediary or broker.
Mr G was unsure how to answer a question about declaring previous claims. So he called 
Urban Jungle to discuss this and some other questions he had about contents insurance.
The member of staff he spoke to said she couldnt advise Mr G how to answer the question. 
But she did give him two examples of claims that, if hed made in the past, would need to be 
declared. She said Mr G would need to read the policy documents to see if hed made 
claims for things that would potentially have been covered by the policy he was now wanting 
to buy.
Mr G agreed that hed do this  and he also told the member of staff about two separate 
issues hed had with a laptop, where he found at least one of the issues wasnt insured.
Mr G later completed his application for insurance, and answered the question about 
previous claims as true  that is, there had been no previous relevant claims in the past 
five years..
Some months later Mr G asked the insurer to consider a claim. It concluded that hed 
answered the question about previous claims incorrectly and it both said it wouldnt meet the 
claim and avoided his policy. Mr G complained about this and subsequently the Financial 
Ombudsman service decided that the insurer was entitled to do that, so long as it refunded 
the premium Mr G had paid.
Mr G then complained to Urban Jungle saying the terms and conditions werent clear which 
led to his problems when making the claim. Urban Jungle didnt think it did anything wrong, 
so Mr G asked this service to review his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Whilst he had every sympathy 
for Mr G, he did think Urban Jungle had given Mr G enough information to guide him on how 
to answer the question correctly  even if the question itself wasnt, at first reading, 
particularly easy to understand.
Mr G doesnt agree, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I too sympathise with the situation Mr G finds himself in, Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.
I appreciate that our investigator didnt think the question Mr G was trying to answer was 
particularly clear on first reading, but I dont think that means I cant reach a fair decision on 
this complaint. What Im considering is whether Urban Jungle gave Mr G enough information 
so he could answer the relevant question accurately. I think it did. I say this for the following 
reasons:
Urban Jungle doesnt write the questions asked during the application process. 
Thats done by the insurer. Nevertheless I still think I can reach a fair decision here.
Mr G, when applying online, initially answered the question to say he had made a 
relevant claim, He then couldnt get a quote. Thats recorded in Urban Jungles 
internal records and he also mentioned this during the call Ive listened to. 
When Mr G called Urban Jungle, he was asking for advice on how he should answer 
the question. He explained hed answered the question confirming hed made a 
previous claim but then couldnt get a quote for cover. 
The member of staff said she couldnt say how he should answer the question. But 
she did give Mr G two examples to guide him on how he could work out if any 
previous claims were ones he should declare. Mr G said he understood these  and 
also that hed go away and review the terms and conditions for the policy he was 
trying to buy, so he could work out if previous claims should be declared.
The member of staff also explained that whether cover was offered depended upon 
many factors that the automated process took into account. 
Mr G then described how hed had a problem with his laptop in the past, when hed 
left it somewhere and later discovered he wasnt insured for this. He and the member 
of staff also discussed accidental damage cover. 
Mr G subsequently bought a policy, including personal possessions cover. That type 
of cover is for items that are being used outside the home. 
Taking all of this into account it seems to me that Mr G understood what the member of staff 
told him during the phone call and acted accordingly. 
Mr Gs subsequent claim was for a bicycle. Thats one of the things clearly listed as covered 
by his current policy. Mr G had previously claimed for a bicycle but hadnt declared this. I 
havent seen anything that makes me think Mr G didnt have enough information to realise  
he should have declared that claim when buying the policy. I also think that if hed still been 
uncertain he could have called Urban Jungle again to make sure. I cant see that Urban 
Jungle did anything wrong during the process.  My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman