DRN-3124752
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the decision by MetLife Europe d.a.c to turn down her income 
protection claim.
What happened
Mrs F is covered under her employers group income protection scheme. The scheme will 
pay benefit if Mrs F cant work in her occupation because of illness or injury. It has a 26-
week deferred period.
Mrs F has fibromyalgia. She stopped working in September 2019 because of her symptoms 
and made a claim under the scheme. MetLife turned down the claim because it didnt think 
the medical evidence supported that Mrs F met the scheme definition of incapacity. Unhappy 
with this, Mrs F brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought MetLifes claims 
decision had been reasonable. 
Mrs F didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be payable, Mrs F needs to show that she was incapacitated for the 26-week 
deferred period. The policy explains a member is incapacitated if theyre unable, by reason 
of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of their occupation. 
MetLife points out that Mrs Fs condition was long-standing, and that shed previously been 
able to work with her symptoms. It says that theres no medical evidence to support that her 
functional capacity was impacted throughout the deferred period, or that there was a 
deterioration in her symptoms around the time she stopped work. 
The deferred period was 10 September 2019 to 10 March 2020. Ive therefore considered 
the medical evidence during this period.
I see that Mrs F visited her GP in early September 2019. She reported having a recent flare 
up of symptoms, and so was signed off work. Mrs F then visited her GP again on 27 
September 2019, and the GP recorded that she was no better and asking for more 
painkillers. The GP said Mrs F felt very stiff and was trying to be active.
Mrs Fs GP continued to sign her off as unfit to work due to fibromyalgia for the remainder of 
the deferred period. However, it seems that Mrs F didnt go and see her GP again during 
that time. 
Mrs F visited a rehabilitation case manager (Mr K) in January 2019, and she told him that 
her symptoms had deteriorated over the past year and had a significant impact on her ability 
to complete her job. Mr K concluded that Mrs F couldnt work. Though as our investigator 
has pointed out, this was based on Mrs Fs reporting of her symptoms and her view of her 
ability to work. For example, Mr K said that Mrs F was experiencing a significantly bad period 
in relation to the management of her symptoms, but this isnt reflected in her medical 
records.
Mrs F visited a consultant rheumatologist in March 2020 (after the end of the deferred 
period) after this was suggested by Mr K. The rheumatologist wrote to Mrs Fs GP and said 
she had been off work over the past six months with worsening symptoms of sleep, pain, 
IBS and brain fog. Though again, it seems this was based on Mrs Fs own reporting of her 
symptoms at that appointment, which isnt supported by her GP records from the relevant 
period. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs F experienced symptoms during the deferred period. However, for 
her claim to be payable, the evidence needs to support that her symptoms were so severe 
that they prevented her from working (and that this was the case for the full 26-week period). 
Although Mrs Fs GP signed her off as unfit to work throughout the deferred period, Mrs F 
only visited her GP on two occasions about her symptoms, and that was during the first 
month of her absence. Her GP records therefore dont document what her symptoms were 
during the full 26-week deferred period, or how they were preventing her from working.
On balance, I think it was reasonable for MetLife to conclude that Mrs F didnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity throughout the whole of the deferred period, and therefore turn 
down the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman