DRN-3017507
The complaint
This complaint is about two buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages Mr W and Mrs W hold with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. The mortgages were due for repayment in January 2018. Mr 
W and Mrs W are unhappy with how Barclays handled their request to consider extending 
the mortgage terms. The complaint has been made jointly by both Mr W and Mrs W, as 
our rules require, but all of our dealings on it have been with Mr W.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,400 pages of documents. Ive read 
everything, but in what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Another reason for me not to repeat all the details here is that our decisions are published 
and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr W and Mrs W 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (and rounding the 
figures) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr W and Mrs W have held the BTL mortgages since 2008; theyre both interest-only, and 
for broadly the same amount (£68,000) and were due for repayment in January 2018. 
Mr W and Mrs W planned on repaying them from the sale of another rented property 
(which Ill call N) but wanted to know if Barclays would consider extending the BTL 
mortgages. This would allow them to maintain the income stream from N. 
Mr W and Mrs W wanted to have the discussion in person at their local branch. They tell 
us they first approached Barclays four months before the mortgages expired, and didnt 
receive any meaningful response. Barclays says it only deals with term end discussions 
over the phone, and that it explained this to Mr W and Mrs W on many occasions. In 
January 2019, Barclays appointed Law of Property Act 1925 Receivers to take over 
managing the BTL properties. The Receivers, whom Ill call T, removed the tenants and 
recommended possession proceedings. 
Mr W and Mrs W complained about the impact of the Receivers appointment, and what 
they regarded as Barclays failure to answer their original request to consider extending 
the mortgaqe terms. Barclays issued a final response in February 2020. Briefly, it admitted 
to some problems with written communications going to the wrong property and paid £250 
compensation for that. Otherwise, it agreed to put possession proceedings on hold and 
reiterated its position that Mr W and Mrs W should have spoken (and indeed still should 
speak) with the relevant telephone team about the now-expired mortgages.
Mr W and Mrs W referred the complaint to us: whilst its been with us, Mr W and Mrs W 
have now sold N, and are in a position to redeem the two BTL mortgages. However, 
theyve been reluctant to do so unless Barclays dealt with their claim for financial loss that 
is part of this complaint. 
Our investigator urged them to repay the mortgages separately, rather than make doing so 
conditional on the outcome of their complaint. He also explained that our investigation 
would be confined to what happened before the complaint was referred to us in early 
2020. When he considered the case, our investigator considered Barclays settlement offer 
to be fair and reasonable and didnt recommend any further redress be paid. 
Mr W and Mrs W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we reach our 
findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We 
consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
Ill begin by reiterating an important point about the scope of our investigation. In his letter 
responding to the investigators informal view, Mr W wrote in detail about what has 
happened since the complaint came to us in 2020, and indeed what is still happening now. I 
understand how strongly he feels that we should deal with that as well, but Im afraid our 
rules (which derive from an Act of Parliament) dont allow us to. So, just as the investigator 
did, Ive confined my review of this complaint to the events leading up to Barclays issuing its 
final response in February 2020.
Those events, according to Mr Ws testimony, commenced with him writing to ask Barclays 
to consider extending the mortgages. Hes sad that was about four months before the 
mortgages were due to expire; that was in January 2018, so Im taking it to mean he first 
contacted Barclays around September 2017. The available evidence doesnt corroborate that; the earliest written correspondence we have from Mr W and Mrs W asking for the 
mortgages to be extended is from June 2018, so five months after they expired.
Ive noted what Mr W has said about his earlier letters being on a previous computer, and 
Im happy to take what he says at face value. Ive also noted his point about some of 
Barclays letters about the expiry of the mortgages being addressed to the security 
addresses rather than his and Mrs Ws home address. The latter is what Barclays 
acknowledged in its final response, and the reason it offered compensation of £250. But 
what I then have to consider is what difference, if any, the addressing of letters to the wrong 
place and/or any failure on Barclays part to reply to letters received between 
September 2017 and January 2018 had on the eventual outcome.
Ive given these two points a very great deal of thought, because they go to the very crux of 
the dispute. However, having done so, Im not persuaded they make a material difference. I 
say that because even if Barclays had replied to letters received from Mr W during that 
four-month period, it would have done so by asking him to contact its specialist telephone 
team, just as it did subsequently. 
Meanwhile, if Barclays had sent the letters it did send to the correct address, that would 
simply mean Mr W and Mrs W would have received letters asking them to contact the 
specialist telephone team. In that context, Barclays position was consistent throughout; it 
was always willing to engage in a dialogue about the BTL mortgages with Mr W and Mrs W, 
provided they called the relevant team on the phone. The difficulty is that Mr Ws position 
was also consistent throughout; he didnt wish to deal with matters on the phone, hed only 
do so face to face in a branch.
So I next have to consider whether Barclays position was fair and reasonable. I have no 
regulatory function, so its not within my remit to tell Barclays how it should design and run its 
operations. If Barclays has chosen to structure its end of mortgage term unit around 
telephone contact, it can do that. Insofar as it had done that, Barclays wasnt singling Mr W 
and Mrs W out or treating them unfairly; it was simply asking them to contact it the same way 
it would ask any borrower whose mortgage was ending to contact it.
I appreciate Mr W didnt want to do that; I understand he prefers to conduct business in the 
same manner he used to when he worked in the sector. I understand his strength of feeling 
in this respect, but ultimately it cant be the yardstick by which I judge Barclays conduct. I 
have to do that by reference to what is considered normal business practice today. Ive done 
that, and I havent found Barclays wanting. 
Underpinning this dispute is the starting point that Mr W and Mrs W owed Barclays close to 
£140,000, and they were contractually obliged to pay the money back by January 2018. In a 
situation where they wanted Barclays to extend that deadline, it was incumbent on them to 
accommodate Barclays way of working, rather than expect it to make bespoke changes to 
its way of working in order to accommodate their preferences.
Had they done that by having a telephone dialogue with the specialist team, I consider it 
more likely than not that term extensions would have been agreed beyond January 2018, 
allowing Mr W and Mrs W to postpone the sale of N and avoiding the need for Barclays to 
appoint Receivers. But insofar as Mr W and Mrs W didnt engage in that dialogue, I cant 
fairly find that Barclays was wrong to appoint Receivers. These mortgages were due for 
repayment in January 2018 and whilst Mr W and Mrs W may have made every monthly 
interest payment on both mortgages on time, they didnt make the final capital payments on 
time. That placed them in breach of contract, thus allowing Barclays to appoint Receivers in 
accordance with the contract terms.Once Barclays had made the appointment, the Receivers acted for Mr W and Mrs W, not for 
the bank. The losses for which Mr W and Mrs W seek redress flow largely from decisions the 
Receivers took as their agent. Its up to Mr W and Mrs W whether they wish to pursue their 
claim against the Receivers rather than Barclays; its not something we can deal with as we 
dont have any jurisdiction over Law of Property Act Receivers.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions the determination with which Mr W has 
brought the complaint. He sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank has done 
(or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may, I have 
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes 
taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done 
so, I cant find in Mr W and Mrs Ws favour, however much Mr W thinks I should.
For the mistakes Barclays made in addressing letters to the wrong place, it has paid what I 
consider fair compensation. Insofar as those mistakes didnt change what happened 
subsequently, there are no reasonable grounds for me to order Barclays to do more by way 
of redress. 
Mr W and Mrs W dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they 
nor Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mr W and Mrs Ws right to take legal action against 
Barclays over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman