DRN-2501761
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with unaffordable loans. 
He says effective affordability checks werent considered and this led to him being provided 
with unaffordable loans.  
  
Background
L2G initially provided Mr C with a loan of £250 in October 2019. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1,028.52 
was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £57.14. This loan was repaid early and a second 
loan for £400, on similar terms but with a monthly repayment amount of £91.42, was 
provided in January 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided 
these loans as proportionate checks would have shown they were unaffordable. 
L2G disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr C prior to 
providing him with these loans. It also carried out credit checks. Mr C declared that he was 
earning around £2,675.00 a month and had expenditure of £1,066.00 a month. This left him 
in excess of £1,600.00 a month to make his monthly repayment. That said L2G didnt 
consider this information accurate and increased Mr Cs expenditure and decreased Mr Cs 
expenditure to take account of this. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But the credit check it carried out showed Mr C 
had a debt burden which had been increasing and had outstanding short-term loans. This 
coupled with L2G not being confident in the income and expenditure information Mr C 
provided, such that it adjusted the figures and its adjustments not capturing all of Mr Cs 
expenditure lead me to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr Cs actual monthly 
expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr C with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr C
would have been unable to repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mr C would have 
been unable to sustainably repay these loans.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr C could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Mr C was 
already heavily overdrawn and his income was being used to gamble and meet his 
commitments to existing creditors. 
In my view, he was always likely to use the funds from these loans in the same way which 
meant he was unlikely to be able to repay them without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr C would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr C was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did Mr C lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with these loans?
As Mr C paid a high amount of interest and charges on loans that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr C by:
refunding the interest and charges Mr C paid as a result on these loans;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr C to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman