DRN-3592153
The complaint
Mrs R complains about advice she received when taking out a life protection policy with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs R took out a life protection policy with HSBC. In 2021 Mrs R realised the policy 
wasnt suitable for her needs so complained to HSBC about the advice. 
HSBC looked into things and said the sale had been done by a third party broker so they 
werent responsible for any advice given about the policy. HSBC gave Mrs R the details of 
the broker who they say sold the policy so she could make contact, they also passed on 
details of the complaint directly.
Mrs R didnt agree with this saying it was HSBC who sold her the policy so brought the 
complaint to our service. After considering all of the evidence one of our Investigators didnt 
think that HSBC sold the policy. They explained that HSBC had no record of any sales calls 
and that their systems showed the application came from a third party.
Mrs R disagreed saying she was sure that HSBC called to sell and set up the policy as they 
asked a lot of questions. Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear how strongly Mrs R feels about what happened and I want to assure her that Ive 
considered everything that has been provided when coming to a decision. 
After carefully considering all the evidence Im satisfied that HSBC did not sell the policy and 
so arent responsible for any advice given. 
Mrs R said she received telephone calls from HSBC when arranging the sale and set up of 
the policy. HSBC said they dont make outbound calls of that nature. HSBC also have no 
record of any telephone calls, either inbound or outbound, with Mrs R around the time of the 
sale.
HSBC systems show that the application was submitted to them by a broker. This is backed 
up by the application which shows the broker details and says they will receive a 
commission for arranging the policy.    
Mrs R may have legitimate concerns about the sale of the policy however Im satisfied that it 
wasnt HSBC who gave any advice so they are not responsible. HSBC have provided Mrs R 
with the details of the broker who did sell the policy so any concerns about the sale and 
advice should be addressed there. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman