DRN-2580779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain HSBC UK Bank Plc have recorded incorrect information on its 
internal records which had an impact on a mortgage application they recently made. .
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
HSBC have said its unable to amend its internal records that show incorrect 
information regarding Mr and Mrs Ms credit payment history. HSBC have however, 
placed a memo on Mr and Mrs Ms file explaining the situation, allowing it to refer to 
its underwriting team - so the incorrect information doesnt affect any potential 
mortgage application. I think this is a reasonable work around in the circumstances to 
make sure Mr and Mrs M arent disadvantaged by HSBCs mistake
Mr and Mrs M would like to know how long the negative data will remain on HSBCs 
internal records. Our investigator has asked for this information, but HSBC havent 
provided it. Mr and Mrs M will understandably be concerned about this information 
remaining on the internal record  and potentially impacting any prospective business 
they intend to do with HSBC. So I think it reasonable HSBC provide an explanation of 
how long this information will remain on its internal records to 
Mr and Mrs M
HSBC accepted the information has been recorded internally in error. Although the 
information is not reported to any credit reference agencies, so would not have any 
potential impact externally, it has meant a mortgage application decision in principle 
has been declined. And although a satisfactory work around has been established, 
Mr and Mrs M still have the inconvenience of potentially having to go through this 
procedure in future when making an application.
So taking everything into account Ive set out above. I do think compensation is due. I 
appreciate the concerns Mr and Mrs M have  and why they feel so strongly about 
what has happened. But considering the facts of the complaint, I think the £600 
compensation recommended by our Investigator fairly represents the inconvenience 
theyve been caused. So I make no further award.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Provide detail to Mr and Mrs M of how long the incorrect information will exist on its 
internal record
Pay Mr and Mrs M £600 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman