DRN-3255506
The complaint
Mr J complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly when it provided him with a credit card 
account in 2015 and then increased the credit limit on that card on a number of occasions.
What happened
Mr J had a credit card account with NewDay. He says he applied for the card in 2015. He 
says he was receiving disability benefits and he thinks now he shouldnt have been given 
the card. He says NewDay increased the credit limit on a number of occasions since 2015 
without carrying out proper checks. He says at the time when he was given increased 
credit limits he was also getting additional loans from other lenders.
Mr J says that because of NewDays irresponsible lending hes been left with a debt he 
cant repay and hes now got adverse information recorded on his credit file including a 
default. He thinks NewDay should repay him all of the interest and charges hes had to pay 
together with 8% interest and he wants the adverse information removed from his credit 
file. Mr J complained to NewDay.
NewDay investigated his complaint. It said it had looked again at the information hed 
provided on his application form. At that time, hed told NewDay he was employed and had 
access to other household income. It said it had carried out its usual checks. There was no 
record of any arrears on any of his active accounts and there was no negative information 
on his credit file. It said thered been a default recorded on his credit file 34 months 
previously. In view of the length of time since that happened it had agreed to an initial credit 
limit of £300.
NewDay said it had reviewed the credit limit at regular intervals and had carried out risk- 
based assessments before offering any increased limit. It had increased the limit as 
follows:
March 2016 to £1300; and
July 2016 to £2500.
It said Mr J had been given the opportunity to opt out of these increases but he hadnt 
done that. In June 2017 Mr J had contacted NewDay and asked for a further increase to 
£3500. NewDay had completed its usual checks before agreeing to that increase.
NewDay said that after Mr J told it about his financial difficulties it had agreed to set up 
a reduced payment plan. The account had defaulted in August 2018 and had been sold 
to a third party at that time, in line with the terms and conditions for the account.
Mr J didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
his complaint. He considered that the checks NewDay had completed when the account 
was opened in 2015 and subsequently in March 2016 and July 2016 had been 
reasonable and proportionate. So, he didnt think NewDay had acted irresponsibly 
during this period.
Our investigator thought there was evidence in June 2017 that Mr Js overall 
indebtedness had been increasing significantly. He said this shouldve caused concern. 
NewDay hadnt asked Mr J for further information at that stage about his circumstances. 
So, our investigator thought the increased credit limit in June 2017 was unaffordable.
Our investigator thought NewDay should:
rework the credit card balance so that all interest and fees that had arisen as a 
result of the credit limit increase in June 2017 were removed. Any interest after 
that date could only be charged on the initial balance before the credit limit 
increase;
arrange a suitable repayment plan with Mr J. If NewDay considered it appropriate 
to record any negative information on Mr Js credit file it should backdate this to 
June 2017;
or
if there was no outstanding balance after the refund referred to above, 
NewDay should pay the balance in the account to Mr J together with 8% 
interest on that balance. In these circumstances any adverse information 
recorded with credit reference agencies should also be removed.
Mr J accepted what our investigator had said. NewDay didnt respond. Because 
NewDay didnt respond the complaint was referred to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
As mentioned above, Im issuing a provisional decision in this case because 
although Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, Im intending 
to require NewDay to take different actions, to those suggested by our 
investigator, to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this provisional decision Im only looking at Mr Js complaint about the 
Aqua credit card issued to him by NewDay. He had other credit agreements 
with NewDay but they are not the subject of his complaint. So, Im not 
considering those credit agreements.
Before a lender provides credit to a consumer there are certain checks 
that its required to make. Details about those checks can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook in the section entitled 
CONC (Consumer Credit) (the Rules). Those checks should be 
reasonable and proportionate. The thoroughness of the checks required 
will depend on a number of factors - such as the size of the credit relative 
to the consumers income and the amount of the repayments.
When considering this complaint, Ive looked at the checks which NewDay 
carried out when it issued the credit card and then on each occasion that it 
increased the credit limit.
The history of the credit limits on the account is as follows: 
November 2015  credit limit £300
March 2016  credit limit £1300;
July 2016  credit limit £2500;June 2017  credit limit £3500
The checks carried out by NewDay
NewDay says it carried out all necessary checks in line with its own policies 
and procedures. It uses data from external agencies to estimate the income 
and expenditure of the consumer. NewDay says it also makes checks with 
external credit reference agencies to determine what the consumers overall 
level of debt is. It uses that data together with its own internal scoring cards 
to determine whether the proposed credit limit is affordable. If there is 
evidence of any overlimit fees on the account, for a certain period of time, 
then it will not offer a credit limit increase.
The Rules state that when determining whether the consumer can afford 
the amount of credit offered the lender can take into account other 
household income. And it can use statistical data. So, it isnt always 
necessary for the lender to verify the information provided by the consumer 
 such as asking the consumer to send payslips or other evidence of 
income.
The initial application
I can see that when Mr J first applied for the credit card, he told NewDay he 
was in employment. Hes told us he was in receipt of disability benefits. Ive 
looked at his joint current account and I can see evidence of benefits being 
paid into it. But, theres also evidence of other credits being made to that 
account which is consistent with the information he provided to NewDay in 
his application form. Some of that income was household income  earned 
by his partner.
As stated above the Rules permitted NewDay to rely on statistical data to 
estimate Mr Js income and expenditure  it wasnt necessary for it to 
verify that data by asking him to provide proof of income. NewDay 
carried out all of its checks - in line with its policies.
There was evidence of a default thatd been registered on Mr Js credit file 
34 months previously. NewDay did take that into account. It set the initial 
credit limit at £300. So, having considered everything, Im satisfied NewDay 
carried out proportionate and reasonable checks when it set the initial credit 
limit at £300.
NewDay says it reviews each of its accounts and makes risk-based 
assessments on an ongoing basis to decide whether to offer to 
increase the credit limit. So, Ive looked at whether the checks it carried 
out each time it increased the limit were reasonable and proportionate.
The increased limit in March 2016
The first credit limit increase was in March 2016  less than 6 months 
after the credit card had been issued. The increased limit was significant 
 an increase of £1000. So, Id have expected NewDay to check that this 
was affordable and sustainable.
I can see that, in line with its policy, NewDay again collected 
statistical data. The data showed there was no adverse information recorded about Mr J with credit reference agencies (apart from the 
default referred to above). It also showed Mr J had no active payday 
loans. The data was assessed using NewDays internal scoring 
processes and this confirmed the increased limit was affordable.
When considering whether NewDays checks were reasonable and 
proportionate, Ive also looked at how the account had been managed in the 
period since it was opened. Mr J had made all payments on time and hed 
been making payments which were more than the minimum payments 
required. There was nothing in the data to suggest he was experiencing 
difficulty making the payments.
Im satisfied on balance that the checks carried out for this increase were 
reasonable and proportionate. NewDay also told Mr J he didnt have to 
accept the increased limit. He didnt opt out.
The increased limit in July 2016
NewDay again increased the limit only four months later. This increase was 
for a further £1200  bringing the limit to £2500
By this stage Mr J had been operating the account for over six months. Hed 
made all payments on time and had continued to make payments which 
were greater than the minimum required. There was also no evidence of 
any adverse information with credit reference agencies or evidence of any 
active payday loans. The data did indicate that his overall indebtedness had 
increased in the period since the credit card was first granted. But, there 
was no evidence of any adverse information held at credit reference 
agencies and there were no active payday loans at the time of the increase.
NewDay carried out the same checks as previously  in line with its policies 
and procedures. Ive looked at the data it held and, although there was 
evidence of increased indebtedness, the internal assessment indicated that 
the lending was still affordable and sustainable, Im satisfied the checks 
were reasonable and proportionate.
The increased limit in June 2017
Mr J requested this credit limit increase. The request was for an increase of 
£1000  raising the limit to £3500. So, this was a further significant 
increase.
NewDay didnt ask Mr J to update his personal information at this time. It 
was the case that his circumstances had changed. I can see from the joint 
current account that there was still evidence of benefits being paid and 
there was also evidence of employment income. But it looks like Mr Js 
employment had changed and its not clear whether the status of his 
employment was permanent or temporary. There was still evidence of 
other household income.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for NewDay to continue to rely 
on statistical data to estimate Mr Js household income and expenditure  
given the passage of time since the initial application and the overall 
increase in his indebtedness to both NewDay and other lenders at this time. 
The statistical data indicated that Mr Js overall indebtedness to other 
lenders now exceeded £11,000. It had been around £1800 in March 2016.It is the case that Mr J had continued to make all payments to the card 
account on time throughout the whole period since November 2015. But 
his account had been at or close to the limit for the period since the 
increase in July 2016 and hed only been making the minimum payments  
although on occasions he paid marginally more than the minimum 
payment.
The fact that the increased limit in June 2017 was unaffordable and that the 
payments were unsustainable was also evidenced when Mr Js account 
exceeded the limit shortly afterwards in January 2018. He stopped making 
payments after that date.
Having considered everything here, I agree with our investigator when he 
said that there was information available to NewDay in June 2017 which 
shouldve caused it to make further enquiries. If it had done that it wouldve 
found out about the change in Mr Js employment status and it wouldve 
been able to ask him for further information about his overall indebtedness. If 
it had made those enquiries  which I consider wouldve been reasonable 
and proportionate given the statistical information it did have - I dont think it 
wouldve agreed to increase the limit at this time.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things right
Having considered everything here, I agree with our investigator when he 
said that NewDay should take action to put things right.
Ive provisionally decided it needs to re-work the account for the period 
after the increase in the credit limit granted in June 2017 so that all interest 
and fees which arose after that date as a result of the increased credit limit 
are removed. Interest after June 2017 should only relate to any outstanding 
balance which existed prior to the credit limit increase.
After the account has been re-worked if there is a credit balance then 
NewDay should refund that to Mr J together with 8% simple interest from the 
date the credit balance arose. In these circumstances, any adverse 
information recorded at credit reference agencies about the account should 
be removed.
If there is a negative balance after the account has been re-worked (the 
Corrected Balance), as seems more likely to be the case, Mr J will have 
to make arrangements with NewDay to repay that balance. Id expect 
NewDay to treat him positively and sympathetically. I see it has shown a 
willingness to agree a repayment plan with Mr J.
Ive also thought about any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr 
Js credit file as a result of the increased limit applied in June 2017. If after 
the account has been re-worked there is a debit balance, I think NewDay 
should amend the information its recorded at credit reference agencies to 
reflect the Corrected Balance.
Mr J has already told NewDay about his current financial difficulties. Hes 
confirmed to our service that his position hasnt changed and he says he 
couldnt afford to repay the Corrected Balance in full or make any payments 
to NewDay (other than the nominal monthly amount hes already agreed 
with NewDay). So, I dont intend to ask NewDay to remove any default it 
may have registered with credit reference agencies. I say this because if there is already a default recorded it will remain on Mr Js credit file for six 
years from the date it was first registered. Any new default would then be 
registered after that date. So, I think it would act to Mr Js detriment if I was 
to require NewDay to remove any default it had already registered.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I 
intend to uphold this complaint, in part, about NewDay Ltd.
I intend to require NewDay Ltd to take the following action:
rework the credit card account so that all interest and fees that 
arose as a result of the credit limit increase in June 2017 are 
removed. Any interest after that date can only be charged on the 
balance outstanding before the credit limit increase was applied. 
For avoidance of doubt, the credit limit increase applied in June 
2017 should be removed from the account;
in the event that there is an outstanding debit balance after the 
account has been reworked (the Corrected Balance), NewDay 
Ltd should seek to agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr J. In 
these circumstances, NewDay Ltd should also amend the 
balance outstanding recorded with credit reference agencies for 
the period after June 2017;
Or
in the event that there is no outstanding balance after the account 
has been re- worked, NewDay Ltd should pay any credit balance in 
the account to Mr J together with 8% interest on that balance. In 
these circumstances any adverse information recorded with credit 
reference agencies after June 2017 should also be removed.
NewDay didnt agree with my provisional decision. It made the following points:
It said that because its final response letter had dealt with other accounts Mr J held 
with it, I should consider those other accounts when deciding how to resolve with 
this complaint.
It said it followed the rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) to ensure reasonable and proportionate 
checks were carried out. It said it didnt ask for bank statements as part of its 
assessment and wasnt required to.
It said that within six months of the increase in June 2017 the statements showed 
that the credit limit was not exceeded, the cash transaction facility was not used 
and there were no late payments. It also said that the external data showed that 
within six months of the increase in June 2017, Mr J had no payment 
arrangements with other lenders, no arrears with other lenders, no evidence of 
financial difficulty with other lenders and no evidence of affordability issues with 
other lenders. Although he had three payday loans, it said these were well 
managed  and none had been opened within the six months prior to the credit 
limit increases.
Mr J didnt make any comments in response to my provisional decision. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay has indicated that it thinks I need to consider other accounts Mr J held with it. It had 
looked at the operation of those other accounts when considering his complaint about the 
Aqua account. Mr J hasnt complained about those other accounts. 
I have taken those other accounts into consideration when thinking about Mr Js overall 
credit position in relation to the lending on the card being complained about here. But, I 
havent commented about those accounts specifically because Mr J hasnt complained about 
NewDays management or operation of those accounts. So, as I said in my provisional 
decision, I have only considered the complaint about the Aqua credit card account when 
reaching this decision. And, even taking into account the conduct of those other accounts, it 
remains that I think NewDay should have done more in relation to this particular card in the 
circumstances.
It is the case that when providing credit, NewDay is required to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. And, it is correct when it says that that doesnt always mean it has to 
ask for copy bank statements. But what is reasonable and proportionate depends on the 
circumstances of each case. 
As I said in my provisional decision, by June 2017, the statistical data which NewDay relied 
upon when making its decision here, indicated that Mr Js overall indebtedness  had 
increased significantly since the date when it initially provided credit to him. It was also the 
case that Mr Js account had been at or close to the limit since July 2016 and hed only been 
making the minimum payments since that time. In these circumstances, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable and proportionate for NewDay to have carried out further checks. I remain 
of that view.
NewDay has suggested that the subsequent history of Mr Js credit file supports its view that 
the lending in June 2017 was affordable. I agree that the subsequent history of an account is 
relevant when reviewing a decision where credit has been made available. But, the 
subsequent history of Mr Js account shows that by January 2018 he was no longer able to 
make payments to the account  that was only seven months after his credit limit had been 
increased by £1000 (from £2500 to £3500). And, theres also evidence of payday loans 
having been taken out by Mr J in the intervening period and of his overall indebtedness 
continuing to increase. So, I dont think that the subsequent history of this account or Mr Js 
financial position generally does support NewDays assertion that the lending was 
affordable.
I remain of the view that had NewDay carried out further checks in June 2017, it wouldnt 
have agreed to increase the limit.
Having considered everything here, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional 
decision, I havent changed my view about how this complaint should be resolved. 
When reviewing the actions that NewDay should now be required to take to put things right, 
it will be necessary for NewDay to firstly bring this account back under its own management. 
It will then be in a position to take the actions Id set out in my provisional decision. NewDay 
has confirmed that it can repurchase the account if there is an outstanding balance or it can 
ask the party which purchased the account to reduce the balance by the refund amount.My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about NewDay Ltd, in part. I now 
require it to:
bring the Aqua credit card account back under its own management;
rework the Aqua credit card account so that all interest and fees that 
arose as a result of the credit limit increase in June 2017 are removed. 
Any interest after that date can only be charged on the balance 
outstanding before the credit limit increase was applied. For avoidance 
of doubt, the credit limit increase applied in June 2017 should be 
removed from the account; and
in the event that there is an outstanding debit balance after the account 
has been reworked (the Corrected Balance), NewDay Ltd should seek to 
agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr J. In these circumstances, 
NewDay Ltd should also amend the balance outstanding recorded with 
credit reference agencies for the period after June 2017;
Or
in the event that there is no outstanding balance after the account has 
been re-worked, NewDay Ltd should pay any credit balance in the account 
to Mr J together with 8%* simple interest on that balance. In these 
circumstances any adverse information recorded with credit reference 
agencies after June 2017 should be removed.
* * If NewDay Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr J, it should tell 
him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman