DRN-2194258
The complaint
Mr M complains that a finance agreement he has with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) was misrepresented to him as he was not aware there was a final balloon 
payment, didnt know he was also financing paint protection and didnt need the additional 
warranty.
Mr M has been represented throughout but for ease I will refer only to Mr M in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to him. If it was and if that misrepresentation led him to enter into an 
agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, Id ask VWFS to take some further 
action.
Unfortunately, the copy of the finance agreement VWFS and Mr M have provided is not very 
clear and much of the detail is ineligible.
I understand that Mr M was not expecting to pay a balloon payment at the end of his 
agreement and Mr Ms representative has explained that he has difficulty reading. Ive not 
seen evidence that the business were aware of that when the finance agreement was set up 
in September 2016 and I think Mr M had a responsibility to ensure he understood the 
agreement he was entering into. 
Mr M has signed the agreement and I note he also signed the pre-contract explanation 
checklist to say the finance had been explained to him.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary Im persuaded that the agreement was most likely 
to be have explained to him and I think, because he signed the agreement, that it was most 
likely he would have been given a copy.
I can see that paint protection and an extended warranty are items covered on the invoice. 
Mr M didnt complain about their presence for several years and I dont think I have sufficient 
evidence to suggest they were not what he wanted.
Ive considered the finance agreement. Mr M has explained that he wasnt aware that a final 
balloon payment was necessary. Its clear from the finance agreement that this is a hire 
purchase agreement and that a final payment can be made. But the parts of the agreement 
that explain whether the payment must be made (or refinanced) or whether the payment is 
optional are not legible. Ive been provided with a copy of VWFSs Contract Review system 
in which the agreement is described as a lease purchase agreement and Ive reviewed the 
standard text for that sort of agreement. Where I can read the text on the partially corrupted 
copy of the agreement, it coincides with the standard text on the lease purchase template 
Ive seen. So, on balance, Im persuaded that this was a lease purchase agreement.
Im therefore not persuaded that VWFS were unreasonable when pursuing Mr M for the 
balloon payment which would always have been due under this type of agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman