DRN-2809353
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains British Gas Insurance Limited reduced the
level of cover under a home emergency policy without telling it and mis-diagnosed a fault
with the boiler. Mr L, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
 
What happened
Mr L says he and his wife bought a house previously owned by their daughter through S, a
limited company, in 2018 which they then rented out.
Mr Ls daughter had had a policy with British Gas when she owned the house. British Gas
records show she had a British Gas power flush in October 2015.
Mr L and Mrs L wanted their daughters policy transferred to them but say British Gas told
them they needed a new policy. Mr L took a new policy out in February 2020 (it seems his
daughters policy had continued until then). His cover included the boiler, controls and
central heating on a service and repair basis.
On 10 April 2020, British Gas was called out because Mr Ls tenants had no hot water. From
British Gas job history records, the engineer said the boiler tested ok. He said he
repressured the vessel but noted the water quality was very poor. His notes also say the
system had heavy sludge and he advised and quoted for a power flush.
On 16 April 2020, British Gas was called again because the tenants had no hot water. From
British Gas job history records, the same engineer came out. He noted normal operation
but said there was air in the system. And again he said a power flush was needed because
of poor circulation.
Mr L wasnt at the house for either of these call-outs  only the tenants were there.
Mr L then got two letters from British Gas, both dated 16 April 2020. The first was headed
Heres our quote for your home improvement and gave a fixed price quote of £800 for a
power flush which Mr L had 28 days to accept. The second was headed Theres still time to
book your home improvement. This letter didnt mention a power flush but said British Gas
had recently given a quote for a home improvement which would last for another 14 days
from the date of the letter.
On 18 April 2020, British Gas sent Mr L another letter thanking him for choosing a Gas
Appliance Check. It showed he had cover for this type of check (as well as some other
cover Mr L had taken out with the boiler cover in February 2020).
On 8 May 2020, British Gas says Mr L called to ask about its 18 April letter. It says it told
Mr L his policy had been downgraded because the boiler had failed its first visit and needed
a power flush. British Gas says it also told Mr L the department dealing with power flushes
was closed (presumably due to the Covid-19 lockdown).
On 14 May 2020, Mr L contacted British Gas because his tenants had no hot water again.
British Gas refused to come out, saying Mr L no longer had a maintenance contract because
his policy had been downgraded. He was given the same information about the department
dealing with power flushes being closed.
So Mr L arranged for an independent engineer to come in. This engineer said the micro
switch on the boiler was faulty. Mr L says the engineer quoted £830 to replace the switch but
recommended the boiler should be replaced. Mr L did this (and included a power flush in the
work that was done), at a cost of £2,000.
Mr L complained to British Gas. Hes said if hed been able to continue with his daughters
policy, a future power flush wouldve been included in the cover. Hes questioned whether a
power flush was necessary anyway, given (a) his independent engineers findings and (b)
the power flush previously done by British Gas. And Mr L also complains British Gas
downgraded his cover without telling him.
British Gas offered Mr L £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the poor service and
communication hed had with the letters it sent. But it said its engineer had explained
everything to Mr Ls tenants and expected them to pass the information on. British Gas also
said that, because of the Covid-19 restrictions, its heating upgrades and chargeable work
(which is what it wouldve classed the power flush as) were on hold.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr L brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at
it upheld it. She thought the service Mr L had received  particularly between 8 and 14 May
when Mr L had tried to arrange the power flush  was extremely poor. She recommended
British Gas pay Mr L an extra £150 (in addition to the £50 it has already offered) in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him.
British Gas disagreed. It said while it understood there was some confusion around the
cover, had Mr L questioned this when he got the letter the problems wouldve been
avoided. British Gas said the downgrade in cover wouldve been explained to Mr Ls
tenants and it was his responsibility to get this information from them. And it said that while
there were delays in telling Mr L the power flush couldnt be carried out, we at this service
didnt have the power to look into this part of his complaint.
So Mr Ls complaint came to me to decide. On 26 April 2021, I issued a decision on Mr Ls 
complaint in which I explained that I intended to uphold it. But, because some of my reasons 
for doing so differed from those our investigator gave, I issued a provisional (rather than a 
final) decision.
Mr L on behalf of S says he has nothing to add to my provisional decision. British Gas says 
the same but reiterates some points its made before.
Mr Ls complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. In that decision, I said Id look at what I thought were the three main 
aspects of Mr Ls complaint, as follows.
Did British Gas act fairly in requiring Mr L to enter into a new insurance contract?
Mr L says if hed been able to continue the cover his daughter had, a further power flushwouldve been included in his cover. I think he says this because, under the terms of his
policy, if Mr L bought a British Gas Power Flush, any future ones he mightve needed to
keep his system working properly wouldve been included, for as long as he had continuous
cover for his boiler with British Gas.
Assuming Mr Ls daughters policy had the same term, I can see Mr L s point. But legal
ownership in the property changed when Mr Ls daughter sold the property to S. In these
circumstances I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of British Gas to require Mr L to
enter into a new contract of insurance with it.
Did British Gas properly diagnose the problem with the boiler?
Mr L says, because his daughter had a power flush done in 2015 and had a filter fitted, this
shouldve meant another power flush was unnecessary. And he says his independent
engineer subsequently said the problem with the hot water was a faulty microswitch.
The power flush Mr Ls daughter had had done took place almost five years earlier. Ive seen
no expert evidence to say a boiler and central heating system thats been power flushed
once and been fitted with a filter shouldnt need another power flush. So Im not persuaded
by Mr Ls argument here. But if he has any expert evidence to back up what he says, Id be
grateful if he could let me see it and Ill look at this point again.
In diagnosing the fault with Mr Ls boiler, Id expect British Gas to take such steps as are
most likely to identify the cause with the least disruption. And Im mindful that even the most
skilled and experienced people wont necessarily be able to fix all problems straightaway.
Ive already quoted from the notes British Gas engineer made on his visits on 10 and 16
April. On the first visit, he says he re-pressured the vessel; on the second, he notes there
was air in the system. And in both he refers to a power flush being needed. Ive assumed
that, after both visits, Mr Ls tenants had hot water again for a while (but if Im wrong about
this, Id be grateful if Mr L could let me know).
Around a month or so after these visits by British Gas (and having had the hot water fail
again), Mr L says his independent engineer diagnosed a different fault with the boiler. Our
investigator has asked Mr L for a copy of his independent engineers initial report of the fault
and the cost of the work he recommended. Mr L sent us the engineers invoice for replacing
the boiler (which included a power flush). But, so far, we havent seen a formal report
identifying what Mr Ls independent engineer thought the fault was and the action he
recommended.
So, based on the information Ive got, I cant say British Gas has acted unfairly or
unreasonably in relying on its engineers findings in diagnosing the fault with the boiler at the
time. But, again, if Mr L has information he thinks shows otherwise, Id be grateful if he could
send it to me and Ill reconsider this point.
Did British Gas communicate the downgrading of the policy clearly?
British Gas accepts its letters to Mr L about the policy downgrade couldve been clearer. But
it says he shouldve asked his tenants about what its engineer had said on his visits. And it
says if Mr L had responded to its letter about the policy downgrade this would all have been
avoided. Its for this reason it thinks the £50 it has offered in compensation is fair and
reasonable.
I dont agree. Mr Ls policy included whats called a first service. This is a check British Gas
does to confirm it can cover the boiler and controls or central heating. Mr Ls policy says this
check is usually carried out within 42 days of cover being taken out. It says an engineer willcheck (a) the boiler is on British Gas approved list and (b) the boiler or central heating dont
have any pre-existing faults. If they do have faults, it says British Gas will either tell its
customer (a) what needs to be done to get the problem fixed, and how much it will cost, or
(b) offer a different product or level of cover, or (c) cancel the agreement.
Mr Ls first service wasnt carried out within the usual 42 days (quite probably because of
Covid-19 lockdown restrictions). It was carried out as part of the call-out for the boiler repair
on 10 April. From what Ive seen so far, I dont think its likely Mr L wouldve known British
Gas was also assessing whether it would cover his boiler as part of this call-out.
British Gas says its engineer explained everything to Mr Ls tenants but of course theres no
record of what the engineer said. Mr L says English wasnt his tenants first language and
theyve now left the property so we cant ask them what they remember.
In any case, in downgrading the cover, British Gas was making a significant change to
Mr Ls level of cover. And I think it was under a duty to communicate that change clearly to
Mr L, as the policyholder. From the information Ive seen so far, it didnt do that. Telling
Mr Ls tenants isnt enough in these circumstances. British Gas letters to Mr L of 16 April
refer to a quote for a home improvement but (confusingly) give different timescales for
accepting the quote, while its letter of 18 April simply refers to a different product it offers.
I dont think theres anything in these three letters (or anything else Ive seen so far) making
it clear to Mr L his cover would be downgraded from that he bought in February 2020. Nor is
there anything to explain the background to the home improvement British Gas is
recommending and how it fits in with things.
I should also say that, looking at Mr Ls policy wording about the first service, I think British
Gas was entitled either to tell Mr L what needed to be done to fix the fault, or change his
level of cover, or cancel his agreement. It looks to me as if, in sending the home
improvement letters, British Gas was attempting (and in my view not clearly) to tell Mr L
what he needed to have done to fix the fault. But, within only two days (with its letter of 18
April), it was also telling him it was downgrading his cover  having given him (in the 16 April
letters) either 28 or 14 days (depending on which you read) to accept the quote. I dont think
the policy terms say cover can be downgraded before a policyholder has a reasonable
chance to fix a fault.
And even if Im wrong about the policy terms, in the particular circumstances here, I dont
think British Gas acted fairly and reasonably in downgrading Mr Ls cover. In early May
2020, Mr L tried to arrange a power flush but was told the relevant department was closed,
presumably due to the Covid-19 lockdown. I cant see that outcome wouldve been any
different had Mr L contacted British Gas in late April, since the UK was already in lockdown
then. So Mr L found himself in a position where British Gas had told him what work it would
need to carry out to get his cover back on its original footing  but then also told him it
couldnt do that work. Knowing it couldnt carry out the work it was recommending because
of the lockdown, I dont think British Gas shouldve downgraded Mr Ls cover at the time it
did.
Its clear to me Mr L has had significant distress and inconvenience because of the actions
British Gas took. I think the letters British Gas sent made it very difficult for Mr L to work out
what was going on. It seems Mr L was shocked when British Gas did finally make it clear in
a phone call in early May that he didnt have the cover he thought he had, and I can
understand why. He was clearly bemused at times being told British Gas couldnt do the
work it said he needed to be put back on cover. In these circumstances, I intend to award
Mr L £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. This is in addition to the
£50 British Gas has already offered him and to the discount of £47.16 which I believe it
applied to the premium for the reduced cover Mr L got.British Gas says we at this service dont have the power to look into the delays Mr L
experienced in May 2020. But I dont think that issue is relevant here because I think British
Gas didnt act fairly and reasonably in downgrading Mr Ls cover when it did. And the
compensation I intend to award is connected to that failing and the distress and
inconvenience Mr L was caused because of it.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr L on behalf of S says he doesnt have anything to add to my 
provisional decision and British Gas says the same. But British Gas does reiterate its view 
that that if you have an insurance policy in place, and receive a letter downgrading the 
cover, the first thing you would do, if unsure why, would be to contact the insurer and 
question why this has happened. There is onus on the policyholder, as well as the insurer, to 
the check the cover is adequate and suitable for their needs.
It says that while it understands theres has been some confusion caused around the cover, 
had this been questioned by Mr L when he received the letter, then this would have all been 
avoided.  It also says the downgrade in cover would also have been explained to the 
responsible adult present at the time of the visit and it believes it was Mr Ls responsibility to 
get this information from his tenants. British Gas also says Mr L was told on 8 May 2020, 
when he called one of its advisors that the cover was downgraded as the boiler had failed 
the first visit due to sludge in the system.
None of the views British Gas has expressed in response to my provisional decision are 
new. And, in that decision, I gave my reasons why I wasnt persuaded by British Gas views. 
Ive seen nothing since to make me think I should change the findings I made in my 
provisional decision, which now form part of this final decision. 
Putting things right
I direct British Gas Home Insurance Limited to put things right as I set out below  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ls complaint on behalf of S and direct British Gas
Insurance Limited to pay Mr L an additional £150 (on top of the £50 it has already offered
him and the discount of £47.16, which I believe it applied to the premium for the reduced 
cover Mr L got) for the distress and inconvenience its caused him. British Gas should pay 
this sum within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr L on behalf of S has accepted my 
final decision. If it doesnt, it should pay interest on this sum at the rate of 8% simple for the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman