The complaint
Mrs H complains that BUPA Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
increasing the insurance premium for her private health insurance. She wants matters put 
right.
What happened
Mrs H had private health insurance with BUPA over several years. The premiums increased 
over time. But Mrs H didnt think that this was fair or reasonable as she said that a consultant 
who had received payment from BUPA under her policy had provided poor care and been 
abusive towards her. 
Mrs H complained to BUPA. It said that it had explained to Mrs H from when she first raised 
her concerns about the consultant that it couldnt investigate, and Mrs H had to contact the 
consultant and the hospital directly about her concerns. BUPA said that it had supported and 
advised Mrs H for the past ten months, but her focus had been about the consultant, not 
treatment. It pointed out that it was required under the policy for Mrs Hs private treatment 
and done so, but it couldnt do more or provide cover for no payment.
Mrs H complained to us; she was also unhappy about how BUPA had handled her complaint 
as she felt its tone was hurtful.  The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He explained that complaints handling wasnt a regulated activity within the 
jurisdiction of this service and that BUPA was an insurer; it wasnt responsible for the alleged 
actions of the doctor. He noted that the General Medical Council (GMC) was investigating.  
The investigator thought BUPA had acted fairly in trying to help Mrs H and gave reasonable 
customer service. He didnt think the premiums had been calculated unfairly or 
unreasonably, and BUPA had paid the claims made by Mrs H under the terms of the policy.
Mrs H disagreed. She said that BUPA didnt always call her as promised and said that she 
felt BUPA had not provided the necessary treatment and care. BUPA repeated that it was 
not the provider of the service Mrs H had received and so not responsible for the quality of 
any care provided by an independent self-employed doctor. The investigator remained of the 
view that BUPA had provided regular assistance to Mrs H and wasnt responsible for the 
actions of medical professionals. Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complaints handling isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service, but I can 
and will look at whether BUPA has generally acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with 
Mrs H. I will look at the core of this complaint, which is about the relationship between the 
premiums charged and the concerns raised by Mrs H about her consultant.
DRN-1744365Premiums are set according to a number of factors, such as the cost of private healthcare in 
the location of the consumer. The service provided by a particular consultant isnt a factor 
that affects insurance premiums, though the claims history can do so.
And its correct to note that BUPA is an insurer; it isnt responsible for the actions of a self-
employed private doctor for whom it pays under a particular policy. That doesnt mean that 
BUPA shouldnt raise concerns or ask questions, but its ability to deal with the matter is very 
limited; for example, it could look to offer to pay for a consumer to see a different doctor or 
refuse to cover particular hospitals or doctors in very serious cases.
I note from the evidence available to me that Mrs H has complained to the doctor and the 
hospital. But BUPAs ability to assist further is limited due to the nature of its role. It told 
Mrs H to raise her concerns with the consultant and the hospital, and raised the possibility of 
a complaint to the GMC. This is in my view a fair and reasonable response by an insurer. I 
also can see that BUPAs staff and in-house clinicians have spent a significant amount of 
time talking to Mrs H and trying to support her. I cant say that the customer service given 
was unreasonable or unfair  in my view, BUPA was trying its best to help Mrs H in a difficult 
situation and it explained when it needed more time.
Ive looked at why BUPA has set Mrs Hs premiums at the rate that it has, and can see 
several factors were involved. I cant say that theyve been set unfairly or unreasonably; 
BUPA has followed its procedure and it isnt responsible for the quality of the care (so it 
wouldnt be reasonable to exclude claims for which it has paid from consideration). BUPA 
has from the evidence before me complied with its duties under the policy and paid for the 
covered private healthcare Mrs H chose to receive.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 
3 November 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman