DRN-1515774
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited applied unfair charges 
at the end of her agreement. She wants the disputed charges waived.
What happened
In March 2016 Mrs M was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with MBFS. 
The car was collected and inspected in April 2019. MBFS later asked Mrs M to pay damage 
charges.
Mrs M disputed the charges. She doesnt think the damage was caused whilst the car was in 
her possession because no damage was identified when the car was collected.
MBFS said it had tried to arrange collection and inspection via its agents but ultimately the 
car had been collected by uplift agents and wasnt inspected until it reached the de-fleet site. 
It agreed to remove £35 of charges as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs M remained unhappy and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the damage fell outside the BVLRA 
fair wear and tear guidelines and that the charges had been fairly applied.
Mrs M didnt agree with the outcome so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs M would be concerned to be invoiced for charges she wasnt 
expecting. Shes not disputing the excess mileage or the extra hire period charges so Ill 
focus on whether the damage charges have been fairly applied.
Mrs Ms agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result this service is 
able to look into complaints about it.
Mrs Ms responsibility was to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the agreement. This includes  a requirement to return the car in good condition. Fair wear 
and tear excepted.
BVLRA guidelines on fair wear and tear are a recognised industry guide which is used to 
provide a consistent approach to the assessment of damage when a car is returned at the 
end of an agreement.
Briefly summarised, the disputed damage relates to a  broken cargo net, scuffed door mirror, 
interior mirror, broken mirror lamp and seat base cover.
Ive seen photographs of the car taken at around the time of inspection. Ive looked at the 
inspection report and Ive taken account of the relevant guidelines. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that the damage identified falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines. The 
way in which the guidelines apply to each item of damage has been outlined by the 
investigator and I wont repeat that here.
I understand that Mrs M feels that the damage wasnt there when the car was collected. Ive 
looked at the photo of the damage to the seat and although I cant prove  who did it, it 
doesnt look like the kind of damage that would have occurred suddenly, and as a result of 
the agent driving the car to the de-fleet site. On balance, I think its more likely that the 
damage was present when the car was collected.
I understand that Mrs M wasnt told about any damage when the car was collected. The 
information provided suggests that the car wasnt inspected at collection and that the agent 
wasnt a BVLRA inspector. So I dont think  even if the agent told Mrs M  that there wasnt 
any damage  that this changes my overall view about the damage.
In summary, I find the damage to be outside of BVLRA guidelines and that it was present at 
the time of collection. In my opinion the charges have ben fairly applied.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman