DRN-4412235
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about her property insurer Ageas Insurance Limited regarding a claim 
she made when her home was flooded and it said she was under insured.
What happened
Mrs Cs property was flooded in October 2021. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster who visited 
within a few days. He was worried the property was underinsured. It was decided a surveyor 
would be appointed. The surveyor found the propertys rebuild value was in excess of that 
estimated by the loss adjuster and Ageas confirmed Mrs C as only 19% insured. Ageas 
noted the repair value was around £17,000 without VAT, and so said it would settle with her 
in cash on pro-rated basis at £3,459.87. Ageas also required her policy be adjusted mid-term 
to reflect what it saw as the correct sum insured (which should equal the rebuild value), and 
Mrs C was asked to pay an additional premium, with the adjusted sum insured remaining for 
the 2022 renewal. 
Mrs C was unhappy. She said the rebuild sum had been miscalculated by Ageas. She said 
her home was of non-standard construction, as noted by the surveyor, but the surveyor had 
then completed a standard rebuild calculation. Mrs C said shed also shown the surveyor her 
deeds which allow her the right to gather building materials from the surrounding area. Mrs C 
felt it would cost far less to rebuild her property than Ageas was claiming. She was worried 
the delay in repair, including the property not being dried, was allowing more damage to 
occur. When Ageas wasnt prepared to change its position, Mrs C complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator noted the expert evidence of the surveyor. She was satisfied that Ageas 
had fairly and reasonably found Mrs C was underinsured. But she also felt it had caused 
some delays which would likely impact the repairs. So she said Ageas should pay £1,000 to 
cover any additional costs Mrs C had and £300 to compensate her for upset.
Ageas accepted the proposal. Mrs C remained unhappy. She provided a rebuild estimate 
from her contractor. This was sent to Ageas and our Investigator also asked Ageas to gather 
some more detail from the surveyor about how the specific construction type of Mrs Cs 
property was accounted for when considering the rebuild value. Ageas obtained an 
explanation, and the complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
I felt it should be upheld because I wasnt persuaded that Ageas had shown it had calculated 
a fair and reasonable rebuild value. So I didnt think it could fairly and reasonably pro-rate 
the claim or adjust the policy cover. My provisional findings were:
Underinsurance
Mrs C arranged a policy via a broker with Ageas. She said the rebuild value for the property 
was around £100,000. The policy documents for renewal in October 2021 (before the flood) 
showed the sum insured for the property was set at £105,140. The policy wording links the 
sum insured to the rebuild value. In short the policy says the sum insured should reflect the 
rebuild value and, if it does not, then a claim will be settled on a pro-rata basis. So if the sum 
insured is only half of the rebuild value, only half of the claim will be paid.
The surveyor, when appointed by Ageas, said the rebuild value for the property was 
£543,000. Ageas, setting that against the sum insured of £105,140 said Mrs C was only 
19.3% insured. 
I note the completion of the rebuild calculation by a surveyor. Often an expert opinion like 
this would be persuasive evidence of underinsurance. But each piece of evidence like this 
has to be considered on its own merits in light of the situation at hand. Here Ageas file 
shows that the assistance of a surveyor was sought initially because of the level of 
suspected underinsurance. But also, Ageas said, because it wanted an expert opinion given 
the non-standard construction of Mrs Cs property. However, when our Investigator recently 
enquired with Ageas about how the surveyor had taken the non-standard construction into 
account when determining the rebuild cost, the answer received was that no adjustment had 
been made because the property was of standard construction.
I also note that the calculation submitted by the surveyor did use the normal industry 
calculator that determines rebuild costs for properties constructed by standard methods, 
using standard materials. The accompanying report notes though that the property is built 
from stone material, although not stone usually found in buildings, with likely a lime-based 
mortar. It also notes the age of the property  built at a time certainly when modern day 
construction methods did not apply. Im aware that Mrs C shared a copy of her deeds with 
the surveyor  which she says afford her the right to reclaim materials from the locale for 
building. I can understand she thinks this would impact the rebuild cost. 
Im not persuaded then that the rebuild value determined by the surveyor can fairly and 
reasonably be relied upon by Ageas as proof that Mrs C was underinsured. That being the 
case, I dont think it can rely on the property being underinsured to pro rate the claim 
settlement for building repairs. I also note that the policy for 2021/2022 was adjusted 
mid-term to account for Ageas revised rebuild value/sum insured, with the 2022/2023 
premium being similarly affected. Im also aware that renewal of Mrs Cs policy for the 
upcoming year is due soon, Ive not seen those documents, but expect they/the sum 
insured, will also be based on the unfair and unreasonable rebuild set by Ageas. I intend to 
require Ageas to resolve all of these issues. 
Building reinstatement
Ageas scope for repairs was completed in January 2022, with the cost of work detailed as 
£17,871.24 plus VAT. Mrs C, worried damage had progressed, obtained an estimate in 
February 2023, the cost for work detailed as £21,835, not subject to VAT. To me the content 
looks broadly similar and the costs are generally comparative. Neither includes any cost for 
drying though. And I see that Mrs Cs quote does contain a caveat that tiling costs might be 
subject to change. Im mindful that the property may have dried somewhat and that some 
damp materials are still to be stripped out anyway. Im also mindful that the Ageas policy 
allows for it paying for damage repairs, rather than being one where Ageas would generally 
seek to undertake the repairs itself. 
Having taken the above into account, and bearing in mind Im not allowing Ageas to settle 
pro-rata, I think Ageas should pay Mrs C the sum of her estimate, plus interest*. The 
application of interest is to account for any general change in costs since the estimate was 
completed. If, once work starts, the contractor Mrs C has appointed, thinks extra work, not 
covered by the estimate and cost is required  possibly drying or extra tiling for example, 
which Mrs C wants Ageas to cover the cost of, she will have to seek Ageas approval. This 
will likely mean work has to be interrupted and put on hold. That is unfortunate but I think it is a fair way forward at this time for both parties as it will allow the delayed claim to move on 
and repairs to start. 
If Mrs C wants to submit her meter readings to Ageas  taken in 2021/2022 when Mrs C was 
trying to dry the property  she can do so. She should also provide copy bills and details of 
the dehumidifiers she was using. Ageas should consider these as part of the claim. Interest* 
should be applied to any payment made to Mrs C for extra fuel used, from the date she paid 
any increased sum to the utility company until settlement is made. For interest* to be applied 
Mrs C will have to provide readings, bills and dehumidifier details to Ageas within one month 
of the date she accepts my final decision  if it remains the same and she does.
Policy adjustments
Mrs Cs policy in 2021 had a premium of £651.89 and a sum insured of £105,450. Mrs C has 
said this was adjusted part way through the year and she had to pay an increased premium. 
Im not sure what the increased premium was. But as Ive found Ageas rebuild value was 
unfair and unreasonable, it logically cant be fair or reasonable for that to be applied to the 
policy in the form of the sum insured. Ageas should reimburse any extra payments Mrs C 
made to it for the policy year 2021/2022, plus interest* on each extra sum paid from the date 
of payment until settlement is made.
Ive seen the policy document for renewal in 2022. It shows a sum insured of £637,808 and 
a premium of £990.79. I have to bear in mind though that, by the renewal in 2022, the claim 
for 2021 would likely have been taken into account in calculating the premium. So I cant 
reasonably say that the likely only reason for the increased premium is the higher sum 
insured. Im going to require Ageas to recalculate the 2022 premium  using the sum insured 
from the previous policy adjusted by index linking. If the premium is less than that Mrs C was 
charged for cover for the year 2022/2023, Ageas will have to reimburse her any extra sum 
she paid, from the date of payment until settlement is made.
Im aware that the 2023 renewal is pending. Ageas should record the sum insured as that on 
the 2021 policy, adjusted by index linking to the current date. Mrs C shouldnt have paid 
anything for the renewing policy yet so there shouldnt be any funds for Ageas to reimburse. 
Although I may amend my final decision if it looks like some initial payments for the year 
need to be accounted for. I would hope that the claim will now progress and will be resolved 
before another policy year begins. Assuming the claim has been resolved then it will be up to 
the parties what they do in terms of renewing cover next year. 
Compensation  
The loss adjuster sent a final response letter to Mrs C on behalf of Ageas on 
21 December 2022. That is the point to which I can consider Mrs Cs distress and 
inconvenience. At that time shed had just over a year living in her flood damaged home. 
Thered been little to no remedial action  I understand Mrs C had run some dehumidifiers 
for a time but stopped when Ageas wouldnt agree a cost. Whilst Mrs C has had power, the 
house has been damp, smelly and mouldy  including the kitchen units. I dont doubt that 
was distressing and inconvenient for her, seriously affecting her daily life over that sustained 
period. I also note shes spent a lot of time and effort trying to challenge Ageas.
I understand the contents claim was also delayed. In part because of Ageas concerns about 
the level of buildings cover. I can understand Ageas having wanted to look into the contents 
side of things  but the contents claim wasnt settled until October 2022. Ive not seen any 
good reason for that being so delayed. I accept it being on-going and unresolved was an 
added frustration for Mrs C.Having taken everything into account I think £1,500 compensation is fairly and reasonably 
due to Mrs C. I intend to require Ageas to pay this sum.
Mrs C said she accepted my findings. Ageas loss adjuster provided further comment, 
disagreeing with the outcome.
Ageas loss adjuster said it was disappointing that I had gone against the findings of the 
professional surveyor. It was felt that appointing a surveyor had been a reasonable way of 
ensuring the underinsurance was fairly addressed. Also that it was unlikely Mrs C would be 
able to rebuild her home using items from her locale. The loss adjuster said the delay in the 
contents claim was solely a knock-on effect of the on-going underinsurance issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ageas wanted to try and fairly assess the underinsurance, and it acted to 
do that by appointing a surveyor. But I explained provisionally why, on this occasion, in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint, I didnt find the surveyors findings persuasive 
evidence of likely underinsurance by Mrs C. My view in that respect has not changed.
I dont doubt the potential underinsurance impacted the contents claim to a degree. But the 
surveyors report, which Ageas ultimately sought to rely upon regarding settling the buildings 
claim on a pro-rated basis, was completed in January 2022. Ive still seen no good reason 
for the contents claim then being delayed until settlement was made in October 2022. My 
views regarding the delay in the contents claim have not changed.   
My view on this complaint has not changed from that stated provisionally. My provisional 
findings, along with my further comments here, are now the findings of this, my final 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to:
Pay Mrs C £21,835, plus interest* applied from 1 February 2023 until settlement is made.
Consider any extra work/costs found necessary during the repair programme.
Consider Mrs Cs evidence of meter usage for drying the property. If she presents 
readings, bills and dehumidifier details within one month of accepting my final decision, 
interest* will need to be applied to any payment for extra usage made to Mrs C, from the 
date she paid the utility company until settlement is made.
Reimburse to Mrs C, the extra premium she paid for cover after the 2021/2022 policy 
was adjusted mid-term to increase the sum insured. For each extra payment Mrs C 
made, apply interest to the reimbursement sum applied from the date she paid the sum 
until settlement is made.
Recalculate the 2022/2023 premium, based on a sum insured equivalent to that initially 
set on the 2021/2022 policy adjusted in line with index linking.
If the recalculated premium is less than what Mrs C paid, reimburse her the difference, 
plus interest* applied on each extra sum Mrs C paid, from the date she paid it until 
settlement is made.
Recalculate the 2023/2024 premium, based on a sum insured equivalent to that initially 
set on the 2021/2022 policy adjusted in line with index linking. 
Pay Mrs C £1,500 compensation.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Ageas to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman