DRN-3114012
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the way that Amtrust Europe Limited has handled a subsidence 
claim under her residential property owners insurance policy .
What happened
In 2017 Miss K made a claim to Amtrust after noticing movement in a residential property 
she let to tenants.
After carrying out some investigations Amtrust said there was historic settlement that dated 
from before Miss Ks policy had started in 2012. It said her policy didnt cover pre-existing 
damage.
Following a complaint by Miss K Amtrust said it would cover the ground stabilisation works 
and repairs to the cracking above ground that had happened since the policy had begun in 
May 2012. A schedule of works was drawn up and agreed. Amtrust obtained quotes for the 
works. 
In May 2018 Amtrust told Miss K its contractor was reluctant to carry out the agreed works 
in case it was held responsible for some of the older damage or drawn into a dispute. So 
based on its quote Amtrust offered Miss K a cash settlement.
Miss K wasnt happy with that and complained to this service. Another ombudsman upheld 
the complaint. She held that Amtrust should carry out subsidence repairs and then create a 
new scope of works to include all damage caused as a result of the subsidence movement 
during the policy term and any older damage it needed to repair in order to reinstate the 
house.
Miss K accepted the decision and work started.
Miss K made another complaint to Amtrust about the way the works had been carried out. In 
particular she was unhappy that:
Amtrust wouldnt replace rotten floor boards and joists in the lounge;
The repairs to the outside of the front of the house were of poor quality;
Amtrust wouldnt provide alternative accommodation for her tenants while the repair 
work was underway; and 
The bedrooms hadnt been repaired properly.
Amtrust said its contractors couldnt re-fix the floorboards because it had discovered rot and 
new floor joists were needed. It said this was a maintenance issue that Miss K needed to 
cover at her own cost. Amtrust agreed to redecorate the front of the house. It gave Miss K 
£100 compensation because its contractors didnt leave the property in a suitable condition 
when works were completed.
After Amtrusts contractors had redecorated the front of the property Miss K still wasnt 
satisfied with the quality of the works. Amtrust said the work had proved more complicated 
than expected, and its contractors were still working on the repairs. It said there needed to 
be good weather in order for the decorating to be completed. It didnt agree it should have 
provided alternative accommodation for the tenants or pay loss of rent.
Miss K brought another complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining 
why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional findings 
is set out below:
replacement floor joists
Only some sections of the timber floor around the edge of the lounge were lifted to enable 
the stabilisation works. Its clear from photos that the joists underneath were rotten. Amtrust 
said the floorboards could have been re-laid and a replacement laminate floor fitted on top. I 
havent seen any evidence to the contrary. But of course the best time to sort out the rotten 
joists was when the laminate floor had already been lifted. So I can understand why Miss K 
chose to have that work done at her own expense.
Like most home insurance policies Miss Ks policy doesnt cover damage caused by rot. I 
havent seen any evidence that the rot was caused by the subsidence. Where an insurer 
chooses to settle a claim by repairing the damage, this service expects it to carry out an 
effective and lasting repair. If the only way to repair damage covered by the policy (in this 
case, subsidence) is to repair uninsured damage such as rot, then Id say that the insurer 
should carry out the uninsured work. But I must be satisfied that the uninsured work is 
genuinely necessary for an effective and lasting repair to the insured work.
I dont think thats the case here. The floorboards that had been lifted to enable stabilisation 
could have been put back and the laminate flooring could have been laid on top. So I dont 
think Amtrust treated Miss K unfairly in refusing to accept responsibility for replacing the 
rotten joists.
repairing cracks to the front of the property 
Miss K was unhappy with how the cracks to the front of her property had been filled in. She 
was advised that the existing bay had been constructed from a certain type of stone and an 
attempt to repair it with sand and cement, as Amtrusts builder had done, was doomed to fail 
as the materials werent compatible. Her consultant thought the cracks should be cleaned of 
all of the sand and cement mortar, then re-pointed with a mortar mix of 6 - 1 Bath stone dust 
and white cement, which, when dry, would breath with the existing stone. 
Amtrust says that when its builder carried out the repairs it proved more complicated than 
expected. It says the builder discovered several layers of old filler that needed to be 
removed first. Amtrust says its repairs have put the property in a better position than it 
was at the start of the policy. It says there were a number of unsatisfactory repairs before 
the property was insured by it. Amtrust says its not responsible for putting the property in 
perfect condition  only returning it to the condition it was in when it was the insurer.
Amtrusts instructions to the builder were essentially to do the minimum to fill in the external 
cracks. I havent seen any evidence that consideration was given to the special sort of stone 
of which the property was constructed.  
As mentioned above, Amtrust needs to ensure its repairs are effective and lasting. 
Sometimes this means a consumer will end up in a better position than they were in prior to 
the loss or damage happening. But if thats necessary to ensure a lasting repair, then I think 
thats the only fair solution. So I am minded to say that Amtrust should redo all its repairs to 
the cracks to the front of the property as recommended by Miss Ks consultant. painting the front of the property
Miss K was unhappy with the paint work to the bay window. This was because it hadnt been 
painted in full. Amtrust said it would ensure this was done. In view of my provisional finding 
regarding the redoing of the external cracks, Amtrust will need to redecorate the bay after 
that work has been carried out.
repairs to bedrooms
In July 2020 Miss K told Amtrusts loss adjuster that according to her tenants more cracks 
had appeared in the property. The loss adjuster replied that it wouldnt be a surprise if 
additional movement had occurred as a result of the delay in stabilising the property. In 
particular there were cracks in the middle and rear bedrooms.
Amtrusts loss adjuster later said that these cracks had been noted in previous visits and 
they werent connected to subsidence damage. He thought they were consistent with 
normal shrinkage rather than subsidence. So Amtrust refused to repair them. Miss K paid 
£1,365 to have that work done.
Bearing in mind that the loss adjuster advised that there was almost certainly ongoing 
movement at the property and that fact that stabilisation works werent completed until 
about three years after the loss was discovered, I think its likely that the cracks in these 
two bedrooms were either new cracks caused by the ongoing movement or historic cracks 
that had opened up as a result of the same. In either case to treat Miss K fairly I think 
Amtrust should reimburse her for the cost of repairs plus interest.
loss of rent
Miss Ks policy includes cover for up to 12 months loss of rent if the property couldnt be let 
out because of damage covered by the policy.
I can see that the company carrying out the stabilisation works told Miss K that the lounge 
would have to be cleared of furniture but the works would only take a few hours. Other than 
the work to the lounge and exterior, the rest of the work inside involved filling in cracks and 
redecorating.
Miss K said that according to the builder who did the rest of the works, it would be easier if 
the tenants werent in occupation. I dont doubt that was the case. Im also sure it would 
have been inconvenient for the tenants to have the building work going on around them. But 
Im not persuaded that it was necessary for Miss K to serve notice on the tenants to 
terminate the tenancy. It follows that I dont think Amtrust is liable for all Miss Ks loss of rent 
once the tenants had vacated in early September 2020. Because of the inconvenience I 
think its likely that Miss K would have had to agree some reduction in the rent if her tenants 
had stayed. They were paying £900 a month. I think a reasonable reduction would have 
been £200 for one month since the work was scheduled to be complete by the following 
month. 
Miss K has shown that she found a new tenant who was due to move into the property in 
October at a rent of £1,200 a month. The tenant didnt actually move in because of the delay 
to the works caused by the dispute about the rotten timbers in the lounge floor. Since I 
havent found that Amtrust acted unfairly in that respect, I dont think it should be liable for 
the ongoing loss of rent from October onwards.
trouble and upsetLastly Amtrust has caused some unnecessary trouble and upset to Miss K by the fact that 
the external repairs will need to be redone which will involve her in further liaison with her 
tenants. I think it should pay £100 to compensate her for that.
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision. In summary Miss K made the following points:
With regard to replacement floor joists Amtrusts builder had told her the floorboards and 
joists in the lounge had been damaged by subsidence. Amtrust had asked the builder for 
a quote to replace them. In anticipation of this work being authorised by Amtrust the 
builder had bought the materials to carry out the work and stored them at the property.
So far as loss of rent was concerned her tenant had been frustrated by the fact that the 
claim had been going on since 2017. Amtrusts builder had told her it would be better for 
the tenants to move out due to the amount of work and the fact that one child suffered 
from asthma. The tenants refused a reduction in rent whilst the works were carried out 
and also refused to allow access for the works. She felt she had little choice but to serve 
notice on the tenant bringing the tenancy to an end. 
The property remained unlet not just because of the joists but also because of the 
cracks in the bedroom.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties agreed with my provisional findings regarding repairing cracks to the front of 
the property, painting the front of the property, repairs to bedrooms and trouble and upset, I 
see no reason to change them and they now form part of this final decision.
I havent seen any expert evidence to support Miss Ks claim that the floorboards and joists 
in the lounge were damaged by subsidence. There is a reference to them suffering from rot 
and the photos Ive seen support that but that sort of damage wouldnt normally be caused 
by subsidence. Ive also seen extensive correspondence between the builder and the loss 
adjuster but theres nothing in that requesting authorisation for the additional work. The fact 
that the builder might have bought the materials for the work isnt enough to persuade me 
that Amtrust ought to pay for it.
Loss of rent is available under the policy if the property couldnt be lived in. I havent seen 
any evidence that this was the case. Under the original schedule of works the lounge would 
be out of use for a day due to subsidence-related works and the rest of the works would 
take four weeks. But since they only involved filling in cracks and redecorating, I dont think 
that would have meant the property couldnt be lived in.
I can see that originally the tenant did agree to the works being carried out but asked that 
they be postponed due to their religious celebrations. This was agreed. So Im not sure why 
they might have changed their mind and refused access later. Under the tenancy agreement 
Miss K was entitled to access for repairs and so she could have enforced this right if 
necessary. I dont think Amtrust should be liable for the consequences if she felt she had to 
serve notice on them to vacate the property.
I agree that the cracks in the bedrooms were unsightly and might have put off some 
potential tenants. But I think the state of the lounge with no floor would have been far more 
off-putting. Since I remain of the view that Amtrust wasnt responsible for repairing the whole of the lounge floor, I dont think it should pay loss of rent for the period that the house was 
unlettable.
I still think it would be reasonable for Amtrust to pay £200 by way of a reduction of one 
months rent since the work was scheduled to take one month. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Amtrust should redo all its repairs to the cracks to the front of the 
property as recommended by Miss Ks consultant and then redecorate, reimburse her 
£1,365 for the cost of repairing cracks in the bedrooms, plus 8% simple interest* from 29 
January 2021 up to the date the settlement is paid, pay her £200 in respect of loss of rent 
and £100 for trouble and upset.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
redo all its repairs to the cracks to the front of the property as recommended by Miss Ks 
consultant and then redecorate. 
reimburse her £1,365 for the cost of repairing cracks in the bedrooms, plus 8% simple 
interest* from 29 January 2021 up to the date the settlement is paid;
pay her £200 in respect of loss of rent; and
£100 for trouble and upset.
*If Amtrust Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss K a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman