DRN-3677725
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) have 
handled his request for help to recover money following the cancellation of hotel 
accommodation. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr P booked a hotel stay for seven nights abroad using a travel merchant, 
who Ill refer to as O. He paid a total of £554.92 using his Virgin Money credit card. The stay 
was scheduled to start on 22 April 2020. 
In mid-March and early April 2020 Mr P emailed O and cancelled his booking due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. His booking confirmation confirmed he would be entitled to a full 
refund if he cancelled the accommodation before 14 April 2020, so he didnt think hed have 
a problem receiving his money back. But despite several emails to O over the course of the 
next couple of months, he never heard from them.
Because O werent responding, Mr P asked Virgin Money to help recover the money. This 
was in May 2020. Virgin Money sent him a dispute resolution form to complete, which Mr P 
returned a couple of weeks later. Virgin Money wanted more information from Mr P and 
asked him to send it through to them. At this time, they gave Mr P an email address to send 
the information to. As Virgin Money hadnt heard from Mr P by 23 July 2020, they declined 
his chargeback claim and wrote to him to let him know. In their letter to Mr P, Virgin Money 
also said theyd considered Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) but 
didnt feel it applied as they couldnt identify a breach of contract or misrepresentation from 
the supplier. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P contacted Virgin Money in early August 2020 to raise a complaint. 
He said that he had sent the information across but had difficulty using apps and email and 
couldnt attend a branch as he was shielding during the pandemic. It transpired that Mr P 
had incorrectly entered the email address when responding to Virgin Moneys request for 
additional information, so the information had never been received by them. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator sent the information across to 
Virgin Money and asked them to reconsider the S75 claim. Virgin Money responded to say a 
chargeback claim was now out of time, and a S75 claim wouldnt be valid as the debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship had been broken because Mr P had used O to facilitate 
his booking. Our investigator considered this and decided to uphold the complaint. She said 
she felt the DCS relationship was in place because O had told Mr P he could cancel for free 
until 14 April 2020 on his booking confirmation, and Os terms and conditions state that all 
cancellation requests must be made to them. So, our investigator said O had set the 
cancellation terms and would be responsible for a breach of contract relating to them. In 
addition, our investigator said she also felt Virgin Money had enough information from the 
outset to raise a chargeback claim for Mr P. She said Virgin Money had sufficient information 
on the dispute resolution form and from a phone call with Mr P on 4 May 2020 to raise the 
chargeback at that time. 
Because of this, our investigator said Virgin Money should refund Mr P the total amount of 
£554.92. She also said they should pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the end of 
July 2020 until the date they settle, to reflect the fact Mr P has been out pocket for some 
time. 
Despite several attempts to make contact, Virgin Money have not responded to our 
investigators view. 
As Virgin Money havent responded, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
laws and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice. 
Chargeback
There are different ways that a bank can assist customer who have had issues with goods or 
services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules, in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Virgin Money to ask for a payment Mr P made 
to be refunded. 
There are no obligations for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for 
one. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right 
exists and there is a reasonable chance of success.
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback; this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
In Mr Ps case Virgin Money didnt raise a chargeback when he contacted them in early 
May 2020 and sent them his completed dispute resolution form at the end of May 2020. 
They have said they needed some additional information to enable them to raise the 
chargeback, and they never received this from Mr P.
The Mastercard scheme rules from the time Mr P raised his request with Virgin Money would 
suggest that the chargeback reason Credit Not Processed would have been the most 
appropriate in these circumstances. And the rules go on to say that a letter, email, message, 
or dispute resolution form are acceptable for the chargeback to be raised provided it 
provides sufficient detail to enable all parties to understand the dispute. Im satisfied that the 
dispute resolution form, along with the information Mr P provided to Virgin Money in his 
phone call to them on 4 May 2020 gave sufficient detail. Mr P told Virgin Money that he was 
raising the dispute because he had requested to cancel his hotel stay with O several times 
since early April 2020 and hadnt received a response. I think in these circumstances Virgin 
Money could have raised the chargeback claim at this point. Had the chargeback claim been raised I think it would have had a good chance of success, 
considering the cancellation terms outlined on Mr Ps booking invoice. But I dont know for 
certain that the claim would have been successful  because of that Ive also considered 
whether a S75 claim should have been considered by Virgin Money.
Section 75
In this case the relevant law includes S75 of the CCA. S75 says that in certain 
circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the 
credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
the goods or services. This is subject to certain criteria that need to be satisfied such as the 
claim has to be within specific financial limits and the existence of DCS relationship between 
the parties. 
Virgin Money have told our investigator that a S75 claim couldnt be considered as the DCS 
relationship wasnt in place. They said that, as Mr P had used O to facilitate his hotel 
booking, the DCS relationship had been broken. But I agree with our investigator here and 
think there is a valid DCS relationship in place. As our investigator has pointed out, O 
explained to Mr P in his booking confirmation invoice that he would be entitled to free 
cancellation of the accommodation up until 14 April 2020. And Os terms and conditions 
state that all cancellation requests must be made to them. As it appears O have set the 
cancellation terms here, Im satisfied they would be responsible for a claim about the breach 
of contract in relation to them.
Mr P has said he tried to contact O numerous times over a two-month period to find out 
where his refund was. He has also provided screenshots of his email correspondence to O, 
where he mentions cancellation and a refund  most of which were sent to O prior to 
14 April 2020. Im satisfied Mr P tried to cancel his hotel stay prior to 14 April 2020, and as 
per his booking confirmation should have received a full refund. As this didnt happen, O 
have been in breach of their contract. As Virgin Money have equal liability under S75 it 
follows that they should now reimburse Mr P. 
My decision is that Virgin Money should refund Mr P £554.92 for the hotel booking that was 
cancelled. Im also asking them to pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the time the 
original chargeback claim was closed by them, to reflect that Mr P has been without this 
money for some time. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money must:
Refund Mr P £554.92 following the cancellation of his hotel booking.
Pay Mr P 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the original chargeback 
claim was closed (23 July 2020) until the date this is settled.*
*If Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr P how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman