DRN-2797564
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Santander UK Plc wouldnt send him a new passbook via post. As 
a result, he feels Santander wouldnt make reasonable adjustments and so he feels he has 
been discriminated against.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators finding for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why, but first I need to clarify for Mr E that this service is unable to make findings on 
whether something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because 
we are an informal, free alternative to the Courts and only a court of law can make a legal 
finding based on the definitions set out within the act. I know Mr E will be frustrated by this 
as it is clear he wanted a direct answer to his allegation.
Despite the above, I can consider whether Santander has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner. In order to do that I will take a number of things, including the Equality Act 2010, 
into consideration. 
The first thing I have considered is Santanders policy when it comes to issuing new 
passbooks. Having reviewed its internal guidance, I am satisfied that its policy outlines 
certain steps which need to be taken which means customers need to be present in branch, 
largely for identification checks. Therefore, I cant conclude that Santander has acted unfairly 
by requesting Mr E visit branch to issue a new passbook.
However, I have gone on to consider the fact Mr E has explained he cant visit a branch, and 
as such, reasonable adjustments should have been made by Santander. The Equality Act 
says that businesses have a duty to make reasonable adjustments for customers who are 
placed at a substantial disadvantage due to their disability. However, in law, Santander is 
only required to make adjustments which are reasonable, and ones that dont fundamentally 
alter the nature of its service. Thats relevant law and Ive taken it into account when 
reaching my decision.
I can see that Santander and our service has asked Mr E the reasons why he couldnt attend 
branch on more than one occasion. However, Mr E has been reluctant to provide this 
information as he feels it isnt relevant. But in order for Santander, and in turn our service, to 
consider if reasonable adjustments could or should have been made, I think it is reasonable 
to enquire about the reasons that prevent/prevented Mr E attending branch.  So, as Mr E 
hasnt provided our service or Santander with any information regarding his disability, or the 
adjustments he needs to ensure he is not substantially disadvantaged, I cant fairly conclude 
that Santander has treated him unfairly.  
I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed with my findings and he feels that his reasons for not 
being able to attend branch are private. But in order for reasonable adjustments to be made, 
its reasonable for Santander to have an understanding of the barriers Mr E faces and the 
reasons why it is required to depart from its usual course of business. So, with that in mind I 
wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman