DRN-2667521
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
his credit limit.
What happened
Barclaycard reduced Mr S credit limit on his credit card from £18000 to £250 in December 
2020. He closed his account in December 2020.
Mr S complained. He said his credit records would be affected. He wants Barclaycard to 
accept his proof of income at a branch or by email and reinstate his limit. He didnt want to 
leave the house to post his proof of income because of the Covid-19 measures.
Barclaycard said theyd reduced Mr S limit in line with their responsible lending policy  and 
they could do this as it was included within the cards terms and conditions. They offered Mr 
S compensation of two amounts of £25 as hed had problems getting through in the phone to 
discuss matters with them, and there were some issues with secure messaging. Theyd 
asked him to post proof of income to them so they could review his limit  but he hadnt done 
this.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said he reviewed Barclaycards 
terms and conditions  and these say they could reduce a customers credit limit without 
notice. In Mr Ss case, they did write to him in advance. Theyd asked Mr S to send to them 
proof of income so they could review his limit, but he hadnt sent this to them. The card 
account had had a nil balance since January 2020  so he thought any impact on Mr S of 
the reduction would be limited. The entry on Mr Ss credit file wasnt a negative one. Theyd 
offered two payments of compensation of £25 for problems Mr S had with secure messaging 
and a disconnected call. So, Barclaycard had acted fairly.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman looks at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says hes been inconvenienced by the reduction in his credit limit. He didnt want to 
post his proof of income to Barclaycard  because he didnt feel safe going out to post it and 
asks that he visit a branch to do this. He wants his credit limit reviewed. Hes concerned that 
his credit rating will be affected by the reduction in his limit.
Ive thought about what happened here and what both Barclaycard and Mr S have told us.
Our investigator is correct  Barclaycards terms and conditions do say they can reduce 
credit limits at any time, and without notice. They say Well review it from time to time. If we 
change your credit limit, well write to you and let you know. And, they say If we reduce 
your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to 
not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate. (However, we 
may choose to give you up to seven days notice).
In Mr Ss case, they did write to him on 22 October 2020 - ahead of the reduction in 
December 2020  so they gave more than four weeks notice. They offered to review his 
limits if he sent to them evidence of his income  and enclosed a pre- paid envelope for him 
to do this. 
Also, whether Barclaycard choose to lend money (or not) to a customer is down to their 
commercial judgement  which theyre entitled to exercise. So, Im not going to interfere with 
that.
Mr S didnt send them proof of his income. I dont think his reasons for not doing this are 
compelling  even during the lockdown measures, he wouldve been able to go out and post 
the letter in a post box  he didnt need to visit a post office as Barclaycard had given him a 
pre-paid envelope.
I can see that his account has now been closed. And the balance was zero from January 
2020  so its very unlikely that Mr S couldve suffered any hardship from the reduction, as 
he wasnt borrowing any money from Barclaycard when the limit reduction took place.
Looking at the impact on Mr S credit file. Barclaycard, like all lenders, must record accurate 
information at credit reference agencies. So, in connection with the reduction in Mr S limits, 
thats what theyve recorded. How other prospective lenders interpret this is a matter for 
them  but I can say that this type of information isnt normally seen as negative in the same 
way as for example, a defaulted account would be.
Barclaycard admitted some service failings which occurred when a call was disconnected 
and there were problems with secure messaging. Mr S rejected these offers. But 
Barclaycard acted properly in that respect also.
So  and I can see that Mr S will be disappointed by my decision - but I wont be asking 
Barclaycard to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman