DRN-4137218
The complaint
Mr C complains MBNA Limited (MBNA) unfairly declined his loan application having 
previously agreed to it. 
What happened
Mr C says he applied for a loan with MBNA in February 2023 and received a loan agreement 
which he signed and sent back to MBNA. Mr C says he was then asked to provide further 
identification via an online link, which he did and the following day he was informed his loan 
request had been unsuccessful. 
Mr C says he cant understand how MBNA could provide a loan agreement and then 
withdraw the offer without any explanation. Mr C says this matter has caused him stress and 
worry and he now has a lack of confidence as a result of this and wants MBNA to 
compensate him for that. 
MBNA says although the loan was offered to Mr C further checks were carried out and 
unfortunately Mr Cs application didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr C wasnt happy with MBNAs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all of the available information and partially upheld the complaint. 
The investigator felt while MBNA were within its rights to refuse the loan, the level of 
communication throughout the process could have been better. The investigator says he 
understood why Mr C was left confused and distressed and asked MBNA to pay him £75 by 
way of compensation.
MBNA agreed to pay the £75 in compensation, but Mr C didnt feel this was sufficient and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be partially upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr C to have signed and returned a loan 
agreement to MBNA, only to be informed his loan application had been declined. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if MBNA acted reasonably when it declined Mr Cs 
loan application, having already issued a loan agreement to him. 
Mr Cs complaint centres around the fact despite him receiving a formal loan agreement from 
MBNA, it subsequently withdrew this without a full explanation why.
Without trying to minimise the frustration and upset this would have undoubtedly caused Mr 
C, Im not fully persuaded that MBNA are at fault here. I say this because although I can see 
Mr C did return the signed loan agreement, by his own admission and as detailed in section 
2 of the loan agreement, it does state that further satisfactory identification checks would 
need to be carried out and if this didnt meet MBNAs needs, the loan agreement could be 
withdrawn. 
I understand Mr C wants a fuller explanation as to why the loan agreement was withdrawn at 
this stage, as explained by the investigator, and while he may not agree its not the role of  
this service to tell banks like MBNA it must do so  after all this is business sensitive 
information and all banks will apply different criteria from time to time. 
This doesnt mean that Mr C is necessarily a poor credit risk, simply that he didnt meet 
MBNAs individual criteria following its final identification checks - this is underlined to some 
extent by the fact I understand Mr C did obtain finance elsewhere. 
Thats not to say Mr C wasnt inconvenienced here, he was, and MBNA could have provided 
better communication at the time the loan was withdrawn. I am satisfied, although this would 
have been frustrating for Mr C here, the recommendation by the investigator of a £75 
compensation payment is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct MBNA Limited to pay Mr C £75 for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct MBNA Limited to pay Mr C £75 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman