DRN-2574408
The complaint
Ms B complains about her motor insurer  U K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line 
(UKI)  failing to have a county court judgement (CCJ) against her removed after a 
third-partys insurance claim was paid. UKI accept they made an error, but Ms B feels they 
should do more to put things right.
What happened
UKI handled a claim against Ms B following an accident in 2016. The claim went to court in 
2017, and was decided against her. Although UKI paid what was ordered, they didnt tell the 
court. This meant the judgement remained on Ms Bs credit record. 
Ms B became aware of the CCJ against her in 2020, when she checked her credit file. She 
complained to UKI, who got the it removed from her credit record. They also offered Ms B 
compensation of £750. 
Ms B felt this wasnt enough compensation. She noted that when the CCJ was removed 
from her record, her credit score went up significantly. She felt the error had affected her 
ability to get cheap credit for three years. So she wanted UKI to increase their offer. 
UKI said Ms B would need to show more evidence of the impact on her, before theyd 
increase their offer. Unhappy with this, Ms B brought the matter to us. But our investigator 
had much the same view  without more evidence, there didnt seem to be a case to 
increase the compensation.
Ms B asked for the case to be looked at again, so its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mistake by UKI isnt in dispute here. From wat theyve said when looking at the 
complaint, I find they should have done more to have the CCJ against Ms B marked as paid 
in 2017. That would have stopped it being on her credit record. The focus of my decision will 
be what UKI should now do to put Ms B in the position she should have been in, had UKI not 
made their error. 
Putting things right
Ive seen UKI have now had the CCJ removed from Ms Bs credit record. So going forward, 
thats as it should have been, if no mistake was made. 
Ive also looked at the credit record Ms B sent to UKI with her complaint, showing her credit 
use over the years. Shes said that prior to 2017, she was offered 0% credit transfers, which 
helped her reduce how much interest she paid on the money she borrowed. She says that 
those offers stopped in 2017.
I havent seen why they stopped, but I can appreciate Ms Bs feeling that the CCJ caused it, 
given how much of a difference she saw to her credit score once the CCJ was removed from 
her record. But although she may not have been offered the 0% transfer rates, I dont see 
that as confirming she wouldnt have been able to get them if shed applied for them. 
I cant see any evidence of Ms B being turned down for credit, or being offered credit at a 
less favourable rate because of the CCJ on her credit record. I can understand why Ms B 
thinks it had that effect, but its not clear to me that it did. So although I can appreciate Ms B 
will be disappointed to hear it, Im not going to direct UKI pay any compensation for a direct 
financial loss arising from their error. 
But Ms Bs feeling that the errors caused her to be worse off should be recognised. I find a 
payment of compensation is appropriate to do that. How much to pay is a matter of opinion. 
To make my decision, Ive thought about the unwelcome surprise Ms B must have felt when 
she found out about the CCJ on her credit record in 2020. And the disappointment she felt 
when she found out it was there because of a mistake by UKI, entirely beyond her control. 
And Ive factored in the upset she feels because she thinks the error has caused her to be 
financially worse off.  
With those factors in mind, I find UKIs offer of £750 compensation is the right figure for this 
case. Its significant enough to recognise the emotional impact on Ms B from 2020 onwards, 
when she knew there was a problem. Im not trying to reflect the amount of time the error sat 
on Ms Bs credit record, so I think its wrong to view this as £250 per year, as Ms Bs 
suggested. And Ive already explained why Im not looking to compensate her for a specific 
financial loss. 
My final decision
The offer by U K Insurance Limited to pay £750 compensation to Ms B was reasonable, 
given the circumstances of the case. If this decision is accepted, they should make that 
payment to her in a reasonable amount of time. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman