DRN-3279198
The complaint
Ms B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) gave her poor advice when she 
wanted to renew her mortgage. She wants Clydesdale to refund £1,897.05 of fees she was 
charged when she paid off the mortgage a few months later.  
What happened
Ms B had a conversation with a member of staff about what she should do when the fixed 
interest rate period on her mortgage came to an end. She told the member of staff that she 
intended to sell the property in a few months as she was getting married.
Ms B says she was advised to go online and pick the mortgage that best suited her needs. 
She did that and a new mortgage was arranged. Ms B sold her property and later 
complained to Clydesdale about the early repayment charge (ERC) she had to pay. She said 
shed asked for advice and no one told her that the best option, given she intended to repay 
the mortgage within a few months was to simply let her existing mortgage convert to a 
variable interest rate for a few months  something that, overall, would have been much 
cheaper than having to pay the ERC. 
Clydesdale said it didnt have a copy of the call recording, so didnt know if ERCs had been 
discussed. It apologised for this, but pointed out that the mortgage offer Ms B received 
clearly stated that an ERC was applicable  and Ms B hadnt queried this. Clydesdale also 
said it hadnt recommended any particular mortgage as Ms B had chosen from those 
advertised on its website.
Ms B asked us to review her complaint. Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought Ms B hadnt been given advice by Clydesdale and it had made that clear on the 
mortgage offer. He also thought the ERC was described in the paperwork, and that Ms B 
had chosen which mortgage she wanted.
Ms B thinks this is unfair so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point Ms B has made when writing to us. Instead Ill 
comment on the points that affect my decision. I have, however, read all the information 
provided by both parties.
Ms B says she first contacted Clydesdale on a chatline  and then emailed Clydesdale 
asking for a call about renewing her mortgage. That call was arranged and Ms B says she 
told Clydesdale she intended to move out in a few months time as she was getting married. 
She says she was directed to Clydesdales website where she should select the mortgage 
that suited her best.
Ms B did that and selected a new mortgage with a fixed interest rate period. Ive had a look 
at the website and there dont appear to be any options that arent fixed rate initially  and 
the website also says that each of the variations of mortgage on offer come with an ERC if 
the mortgage is repaid before the end of the fixed rate term.
Ms B chose one of these mortgages and says she was receiving advice from Clydesdale at 
this point. Clydesdale says it didnt advise Ms B  in that it didnt recommend a particular 
mortgage, but instead gave her information so she could make her own mind up.
A full offer was sent to Ms B in due course. Whether or not Ms B felt she was being advised 
during the phone call, I think the paperwork makes it clear that wasnt the case as theres a 
tick next to a statement about this. And further down the document theres an explanation 
about how much ERC she might pay if she repaid her mortgage before the fixed interest rate 
term ended. Ms B says she doesnt think this is very clear but I have to disagree. And I also 
think that if her recollection of the call was that she was being advised, then she could have 
queried this at the time but didnt.
I can see that Clydesdale has apologised for not having a call recording from the time. Its 
explained that, as this was during the Covid-19 pandemic, many of its staff were working 
from home and couldnt record calls. Thats understandable given the disruption the 
pandemic caused to normal business practises, so I think an apology was the right response 
here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I do not require Clydesdale Bank Plc 
to do more than it has.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman