DRN-2649228
The complaint
Mrs M says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ms credit card account when she applied for the card by post. 
Mrs M mainly told us that PPI had no benefit for her as she had a secure job with sick pay 
provided, as well as savings and a car she couldve sold to help her make the monthly card 
repayments if necessary.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Its completely understandable that Mrs M mightve forgotten details about something that 
happened so long ago. But on the credit card application form she filled in there were Yes 
and No PPI options and on the form Mrs M completed and signed the Yes option has been 
marked  indicating that she wanted the policy.
There was a No option Mrs M couldve ticked instead if she hadnt wanted PPI. This is left 
blank on Mrs Ms application. 
So I think MBNA made Mrs M aware at the time that the PPI was available as an option with 
her credit card and that she chose to take it.
 
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But Ive looked carefully at whether MBNA gave Mrs M enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for her  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought about 
whether that makes any overall difference to what happened.
Mrs M was eligible for the cover according to the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs M told us that she wouldve been entitled to some sick pay if she was off work sick. This 
particular policy looks like it couldve paid out a monthly benefit of 3% of the outstanding 
balance on her card at the start of the claim for up to 24 months if Mrs M was too sick or 
disabled to work. 
I dont think its likely that Mrs M wouldve been able to rely on her employer paying her sick 
pay for as long as this. 
And the policy wouldve paid out on top of any benefits received from work  which I think 
mightve been helpful if Mrs M had found she faced extra costs as a result of being ill or 
disabled. 
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. The policy also couldve paid out for up 
to 12 months if Mrs M lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
I dont know if Mrs M wouldve always had savings to rely on as everyones circumstances 
can change. And it was up to Mrs M to decide for herself if PPI was something she felt might 
be useful, knowing what other means she had to rely on and what her financial situation was 
at the time. 
I can see why Mrs M mightve still  wanted to take out PPI  especially as having PPI meant 
she wouldnt be at risk of having to use savings to cover her credit card monthly repayments 
and she could keep her money to spend on other things or to provide financial security. 
Having PPI meant Mrs M wasnt at risk of being forced to sell her car  perhaps when she 
mightnt get as much as she hoped for and whilst she still needed it. 
So I think that the PPI couldve benefitted Mrs M. 
Its possible some of the information MBNA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
Mrs M wouldve been affected by any of those things. 
So I dont think having more information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put her 
off taking it out. 
On the application Mrs M completed, there was a brief description of the policy benefits and 
some information about what it would cost. 
I dont think that MBNA properly explained the policy cost, or exactly what it might pay out if 
Mrs M made a claim. 
But Mrs M chose to take out the policy when she didn't have to - so she appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. And Ive seen nothing to make me think that the policy wasnt 
affordable for her.  
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs M, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy.
This means that, even though MBNA didnt do everything it shouldve done, I dont find that 
Mrs M lost out because of anything MBNA did wrong. 
So there isnt anything MBNA needs to do now to put things right.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman