DRN-2278210
The complaint
Mr and Ms P complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Ms P took out a mortgage. They took out a joint mortgage with a discounted 
rate of interest: to get this particular mortgage product they also had to take out a PPI policy 
to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr P only. It cost just under £30 a month and 
would have paid out about £324 a month for up to two years if Mr P had made a successful 
claim.
Mr and Ms P say the policy wasnt suitable for them as they had substantial assets and Mr P 
was a Director of his own business. Ms P says Mr P had a pre-existing condition at the time 
so wouldnt have been covered if this had re-occurred. Finally they say Mr P didnt meet the 
eligibility criteria for the policy  so if it had been sold at all it should have been to Ms P, not 
Mr P.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms Ps case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Ps complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
There arent many records of what happened, and the original paperwork isnt available. 
Thats not surprising given the mortgage was taken out about 27 years ago  and repaid 
about 24 years ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep records indefinitely. Nationwide 
has sent us some samples of the sort of paperwork it used at the time, including the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mr and Ms P initially told us that they had no recollection of buying the PPI so werent aware 
it was optional. Nationwide have told us that the sort of mortgage Mr and Ms P wanted 
meant they had to buy PPI as a condition of getting a discounted interest rate. I am aware 
that, at about this time, Nationwide did provide mortgages that came with compulsory PPI. 
That in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold. As Nationwide points out, if Mr and Ms P 
had been unhappy about the PPI then they were free to apply for a different mortgage either 
with them or another provider. They didnt do that, so it seems they were content with the 
package on offer  including the PPI.
Mr and Ms Ps main concern is that Mr P wasnt eligible for the policy. Ms P points out that 
permanent resident is an immigration status which Mr P didnt have in 1993, as hed only 
moved to the UK about a year earlier. Ms P goes on to say that insurance companies 
interpret these policies strictly and  should Mr P ever have tried to claim  hed have been 
unsuccessful.
I cant comment on how this clause might have been interpreted if Mr P tried to make a 
claim, because that situation didnt arise. But I have thought carefully about whether Mr P 
was eligible for the policy. 
The policy says Mr P must be permanently resident in the UK  it doesnt specify that he 
had to have achieved permanent resident status. Unfortunately theres no definition of this 
elsewhere in the document that might help.
So I must decide if Mr Ps circumstances at the time he bought the PPI suggested he was 
permanently resident. I think he was. I say that because Mr P had passed any necessary 
residency qualifications for a mortgage, which was due to run for 23 years. He and Ms P 
were buying a home in the UK, he and Ms P were married and he ran his own business 
here. Theres no suggestion he wasnt intending to live in the UK for the foreseeable future.
I think, on balance, that Mr P was permanently residing in the UK when he bought the 
policy. So it follows that I think  as he met the other eligibility criteria  he was eligible for 
the policy. 
I also agree with Ms P when she says that if Mr P wasnt eligible for the policy then it could 
have been sold to her. That might have happened, and I think it most likely the premium and 
cover level would have been the same given it was linked to the monthly payments for the 
mortgage, rather than earnings. But, as I said above, I think Mr P was eligible for the PPI, so 
I dont think this affects my ability to reach a fair conclusion.
Mr and Ms P have also raised a number of questions about whether the policy was suitable 
for Mr P. Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policy  in that it wasnt advising Mr P 
whether it was suitable for him. But it did need to provide sufficient unbiased information so 
that Mr P could check whether it suited his circumstances. If Mr P thought it didnt he and Ms 
P would, presumably, have had to change mortgage product or approach another lender. It 
is possible that Mr and Ms P didnt get all the information they needed, so Ive thought about 
whether better information might have meant they wouldnt buy the PPI and forego the 
particular mortgage they wanted.
Ms P says Mr P suffered from a pre-existing condition when he bought the policy  and this 
wouldnt have been covered if hed tried to claim for this condition. Mr P says he had been ill 
some time before he got the PPI  but had received no treatment for the previous three 
years nor seen a medical professional about it in the previous 12 months. Neither have said 
that Mr Ps condition meant he ever took time off work because of it. I dont know if his 
condition would have been defined as pre-existing or not, but even if it had been, the policy 
provided cover for other circumstances as it covered unemployment and accidents as well 
as illness. And as Mr P was the main earner that could have been important.
Mr P ran his own business, but the policy terms and conditions didnt make it harder for 
someone who was self-employed to claim.Mr P initially told us he had no assets or savings although Ms P said they had substantial 
savings  and Mr P later agreed with this. I havent seen any evidence to support these 
statements  but it was for Mr P and Ms P to decide if the policy suited them, so this doesnt 
change my decision.
Nationwide needed to give Mr and Ms P enough information for them to make an informed 
choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were told what the PPI would 
cost. But I do think theyd have known it cost something, and that it was compulsory. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable as part of the mortgage package 
they took.
Overall I dont think Mr P and Ms P are any worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may 
have done wrong. So theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman