DRN-3805771
The complaint
Mr E complains that AIG Life Limited refused to accept a claim under his critical illness 
policy, after his daughter was diagnosed with a rare condition.  
What happened
To summarise, in 2020, Mr E took out life and critical illness cover with AIG. The policy also 
provided cover for a policy holders children. Most unfortunately, Mr Es daughter was 
subsequently diagnosed with a rare syndrome. When Mr E contacted AIG to claim on the 
policy, he was told his daughters condition wasnt covered.
Mr E complained, but AIG maintained its position. Mr E thought this was unfair as other 
syndromes were covered. He also said his daughters syndrome has associated conditions 
which the policy did cover. 
Mr E brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He didnt think AIG had done anything wrong in not accepting Mr Es claim, as the 
policy only covered specific listed conditions. He also said there was no requirement to 
consider a proportionate payment, as Mr E had argued for.
As Mr E remained unhappy, his complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. I appreciate this will be unwelcome 
news for Mr E. Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Mr E and his family have been through some very 
challenging times in recent years. My decision is in no way intended to minimise their 
experiences, or the seriousness of Mr Es daughters condition.
Mr Es policy says it will pay out where a child of the person covered is diagnosed with a 
critical illness. The critical illnesses covered are listed in the policy with definitions. The 
policy further says that each definition sets out the exact diagnosis that must be given for a 
claim for critical illness to be accepted.
Mr Es daughters condition isnt listed as a critical illness under the policy. Generally, critical 
illness policies are designed to provide cover for the most common types of serious illness or 
condition and most commonly occurring serious events. Industry guidance from the 
Association of British Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness 
policies. Aside from including mandatory conditions - stroke, heart attack, and cancer - 
insurers are free to decide which illnesses they will cover and, by absence from the policy, 
which they wont. I appreciate Mr E finds this very frustrating, particularly when AIG has 
chosen to cover other less common syndromes. But AIG hasnt done anything wrong in not 
providing cover for, and consequently not accepting a claim for the condition Mr Es daughter 
has.
Mr E also expressed concern about the way AIG responded to his arguments about other 
syndromes being covered and his daughters syndrome having associated conditions which 
are covered under the policy. Mr E was arguing for a proportionate approach. I accept he 
found AIGs response upsetting. But again, I dont think AIG acted unfairly towards him. I can 
see it invited Mr E to provide medical evidence to see if there were any other potential 
avenues of claim. And its possible a claim could be considered in the future, in the 
unfortunate event that Mr Es daughter is diagnosed with an associated condition thats listed 
in the policy. 
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. Once again, Im sorry not 
to be able to give Mr E better news. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman