DRN-1631162
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Ms J says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Capital One made it clear that Ms J didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the application form 
completed at the time and I can see that this included the option to take out the PPI. 
Ms J has ticked the box to confirm she wanted the cover. And there was a No box 
she could have ticked if she didnt want the cover. And Ms J has signed the 
application form which suggests she agreed with everything that had been input on 
the form. So I think its most likely that Ms J chose to take the cover and that she 
understood this was something she could say No to.
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms J so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Ms J got the information she needed to decide if 
it was right for her.
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But she chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that Ms J was only entitled to sick pay for up to six 
months in the event she was too ill to work. And shes told us she had no other 
means she could have relied on in that event, or if she lost her job. So as this policy 
could have paid out for up to 12 months in that event, or if Ms J lost her job, I think 
the policy would have been useful to her if something went wrong. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI and its cost would have put her off taking out the 
cover.
  
my final decision
I do not uphold Ms Js complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman