DRN-3692341
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd  trading as Aqua failed to administer his account resulting 
in additional charges being applied to the account which adversely affected his credit score.
What happened
Mr B explained that Aqua blocked his card after they became suspicious of transactions they 
believed were the result of an account takeover. Aqua had spoken to Mr B at the time of the 
suspicious transactions but werent satisfied that the caller was genuine. 
Mr B was then left with an account he couldnt access via Aquas online portal. Over the next 
few months, Mr B was expecting Aqua to contact him about his account but didnt receive 
any updates about the investigation into the account takeover.
Aqua were advising Mr B to log in to their online portal to read messages and statements but 
he wasnt able to access it because Aqua had blocked it. Over the next few months, Mr Bs 
account accrued interest and additional payment fees because insufficient payments were 
made towards the outstanding balance. Mr B complained to Aqua about the treatment hed 
received. 
Eventually, after about three months, Mr Bs account was re-opened and Aqua agreed to 
credit Mr Bs account with the additional payment fees and offered Mr B £50 to recognise the 
poor customer service hed received.
Mr B remained unhappy with how Aqua had handled his issue and brought his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of 
our investigators who reviewed information supplied by both parties. Aqua wrote to our 
service recognising that theyd let Mr B down and increased their offer with an additional 
£100 and to remove the interest payments from the three months he was without access to 
his account. Aqua also agreed to update their credit reference agency reporting concerning 
the operation of Mr Bs account.
Our investigator thought this was a reasonable offer to deal with Mr Bs complaint and wrote 
to both parties with his opinion about the complaint and the offer. Mr B welcomed the 
increased offer but thought he was due additional refunds concerning charges and interest 
on his account. He also wanted additional compensation from Aqua. 
Mr Bs complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its apparent here that Aquas initial concerns were unfounded and Mr Bs account was 
blocked out of an abundance of caution. I understand why they did this as one of their call 
handlers thought some of the answers to security questions given during a call were 
incorrect. This led to the suspicion that the account had been subject to a take over by 
someone else. Aqua were only trying to protect Mr Bs account from unauthorised use.
Mr B was then left wondering what was happening with his account and Aquas lack of 
communication would, Im sure, have been worrying for him. Aqua have admitted they didnt 
deal with the issue very well, and Im in agreement with them. Aqua should have followed up 
their concerns with Mr B and confirmed it was him who had called in earlier (on the 
registered mobile phone for the account) and then unblocked his access to the account. 
That didnt happen and Mr B accrued additional charges and interest during this period. I 
understand Mr Bs point that he couldnt see what was happening on his account, but Im 
unsure why he wasnt able to make some payments over the next few months, particularly 
as the account was carrying a debt prior to this problem occurring. But, Aqua agreed to 
remove the interest and charges from his account and pay him £150 for the poor service and 
update the credit reporting to reflect these changes. 
Mr B wanted further compensation and Ive thought about this. The issue continued for about 
three months and Im not aware of any other direct financial impact this had on Mr B. Hes 
argued that this caused him additional stress and worry. I dont doubt this at all, but I also 
think the offer of £150 is a reasonable one and I wont be asking Aqua to increase this. I also 
think its appropriate for Aqua to update their financial reporting concerning the operation of 
Mr Bs account.
Mr B believed some of the additional charges hadnt been taken into consideration by Aqua 
but having considered the various documents supplied by both Aqua and Mr B, I dont think 
thats the case. 
Aqua credited Mr Bs Account with three sets of late fees and offered to refund three months 
of interest payments, which I think is a reasonable way for Aqua to deal with this matter. I 
couldnt see any further charges which I think Aqua should refund.
Putting things right
In order to settle, Aqua should now refund (unless already done so) the three months 
charges (£114.31), pay Mr B £150 for the stress and inconvenience caused by their poor 
handling of the account and update their reporting to the credit reference agencies to 
accurately reflect the operation of Mr Bs account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
settle the complaint as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman