DRN-3568661
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited treated him unfairly after hed 
experienced system issues preventing him from accessing its online portal. He says hes 
now suffered financially as a result.
What happened
Mr H has a number of accounts with Aviva, which he manages using its online portal. One of 
those accounts is his pension fund. Mr H is able to make decisions as an active investor and 
action them online. His account became disabled around 10 March 2020, just after hed 
moved a significant part of his funds into cash (Mr H says he did this just ahead of the 
coronavirus market crash). 
Mr H was then unable to login to his account for some time, so he couldnt make further 
changes to his funds. As I understand things, hed intended to move his funds back to 
equities when the markets bottomed out. He also wasnt able to make a one-off pension 
contribution by the end of the tax year. According to Mr H, the latter had significant tax 
implications. He says that after many attempts to call Aviva, he managed to speak to an 
adviser on 6 April 2020, who was able to confirm (by contacting another team) that the fund 
changes requested before 10 March 2020 had been processed. However, the adviser wasnt 
able to help unlock Mr Hs account, or deal with the other changes he wanted to make. 
Mr H complained to Aviva. As a means of putting things right, he asked Aviva to resolve the 
system access problems; honour and backdate the fund changes hed intended to make and 
allow him to retrospectively make a one-off pension contribution for the tax year 2019/20. 
Aviva said the problems occurred due to there being two separate profiles on its system, 
which led to Mr H creating two online accounts with different user names. So, when he tried 
to log in, he mistakenly accessed the other account that wasnt connected to his pension, 
meaning his pension account wasnt visible. It said the accounts had since been merged, 
meaning Mr H could again view his pension online. 
However, Aviva didnt agree that these issues meant Mr H couldnt make a payment into his 
pension (and as a consequence that they caused the knock on impact that Mr H had 
described), because online access is an additional service, which isnt part of the terms and 
conditions attached to Mr Hs policy. It said the dedicated contact centre was there to deal 
with pension issues by phone, email or letter. So, Aviva felt Mr H could have completed any 
fund changes had he used these methods. As far as tax issues were concerned, Aviva felt it 
reasonable for Mr H to allow enough time to make payments when approaching the end of 
the tax year. However, in light of the system issues Mr H faced, it offered him £100 in 
compensation.
Mr H didnt think £100 compensation reflected the impact of the problems hed faced. 
Correspondence continued between him and Aviva. Aviva made similar points, including that 
there were other suitable communication methods available to Mr H. It added that around 
the time Mr H experienced problems, its phone lines were open and available to process any 
requests needed. And whilst phone lines were closed due to the global pandemic between 
about 27 March and 6 April 2020, a recorded answering machine message gave customers 
an email address to send correspondence to or directed them to make contact via the 
website. Whilst Aviva understood Mr Hs frustration at not being able to access his online 
account, it said it couldnt backdate any transactions, as to do so would constitute 
manipulating the markets, which is against the law. It also didnt think Mr H needed online 
access to pay into his pension, as payments could have been made by the other methods 
mentioned.  
Mr H didnt accept Avivas responses, so he complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it as he didnt think Aviva had 
done anything wrong. 
He said making an online instruction wasnt the only way for Mr H to communicate with 
Aviva. So, the investigator felt that Mr H could have made other attempts to get in touch to 
explain the action he was trying to take. Especially as phone lines were open around the 
time that Mr H was trying to complete his transactions, albeit often with long queues. The 
investigator said that Aviva also uploaded an email enquiry form for customers to use. But 
he hadnt seen any evidence of Mr H trying to get through to Aviva in other ways. And he 
didnt think there was any reason to think Aviva wouldnt have done what Mr H wanted -  
especially as its processing times would have allowed sufficient time for a one-off pension 
contribution to be processed before the end of the tax year. 
In order to conclude Aviva was responsible for the loss Mr H said hed suffered (by not being 
able to carry out the transactions he says he wanted to make) hed need to see evidence of 
Mr H attempting to contact Aviva on that date. But he hadnt seen such evidence, nor had 
Aviva. So, he said he couldnt recommend that Aviva retrospectively allow the changes Mr H 
wanted to make. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators assessment. Amongst other things he said hed made 
every effort to contact Aviva via their online portal; complaint portal and by phone. He said 
he found it disgusting that Aviva said he had no case just because he couldnt produce 
evidence of his calls. Mr H said he expected Aviva to search its phone systems for evidence 
hed phoned them during that time and sat on hold and remained unanswered for hours. 
Whilst our investigator considered Mr Hs additional points, ultimately they didnt change his 
opinion. As no agreement was reached, the complaint was referred to an Ombudsman. Its 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted there were problems in Mr H accessing Avivas online portal and Aviva offered 
£100 compensation to recognise there were system issues. Whilst access issues were later 
resolved, Mr H is adamant that Aviva should allow him to retrospectively make the changes 
he wanted to make to his funds had he been able to access the portal at the time. But Aviva 
says it cant do that, so thats the matter that remains unresolved between Mr H and Aviva. 
Mr H says that not having made these changes has caused him a significant financial loss  
not least because there are likely to be tax implications as a result of not being able to make 
a one-off pension contribution before the end of the tax year. In total, hes suggested that 
loss is in the region of £38,000.
I can fully understand Mr Hs frustration at not being able to manage his account in the way 
he wanted. Especially as this happened during a time when there was already a fair degree 
of worry and uncertainty as a result of the global pandemic. And, bearing in mind that access 
to the online portal is intended to make things easier for customers, I can see why Mr H 
would be concerned at not being able to manage his account using this method.
However, whilst using the online portal was clearly Mr Hs preferred option, I also need to 
bear in mind that wasnt the only option available to him. It seems Mr H also had the options to contact Aviva by phone; email; or in writing to explain the transactions he was trying to 
make. 
Mr H said he made many attempts to call Aviva, although hes indicated that he experienced 
long call wait times. Aviva hasnt given me specific call records to show Mr Hs attempts to 
get in touch and Mr H says his phone records wouldnt show attempts to call free phone 
numbers, as theyre not listed. Ive thought about this and I have no reason to doubt that 
Mr H did try to get in touch with Aviva by phone. I say that in particular because when he 
tried to access the portal, Mr H received an error message saying your policies may have 
lapsed or been cancelled and there may have been an error on our side. I think thats 
enough to cause any customer concern, so it seems entirely plausible to me that Mr H would 
contact Aviva to find out what was going on. 
Aviva also confirmed there were waiting times of up to about 58 minutes on the pensions line 
when Mr H was trying to get in touch. And, whilst not specifically stated, Ive presumed from 
what Mr H said that he aborted the calls after a long period of waiting. Otherwise, it seems 
reasonable to assume hed have eventually got through to Aviva and it could have made a 
note of, and, ideally, helped him complete his transactions. 
I accept that long wait times are far from ideal. And its fair to say that many businesses were 
experiencing similar issues around the same time given the ongoing pandemic. However, I 
dont think that means Mr H was prevented from using the telephone option. As Ive 
indicated, its entirely likely that had he persisted, Mr Hs call would eventually have been 
picked up and his intentions noted. But I also need to bear in mind that, whilst probably not 
his preferred option, if Mr H didnt want to or couldnt wait any longer for his calls to be 
picked up, he was still able to contact Aviva in the other ways suggested. 
Mr Hs indicated he made every attempt to contact Aviva about the investment changes 
and additional payment he wanted to make. I accept its likely Mr H called Aviva and I agree 
theres evidence of him sending emails to Aviva later on in connection with his complaint. 
However, I havent seen any evidence to show that he sent an email, wrote to, or otherwise 
made his intentions concerning his investments clear to Aviva in March 2020. Aviva hasnt 
been able to provide such evidence either. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that Mr H tried to use all of the other options available to him 
to get in touch with Aviva. And whilst I understand his frustration due to the online access 
issues he experienced, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think that amounted to Mr H being 
unable to make the changes he wanted. Had he contacted Aviva in other ways, it seems 
likely hed have been able to do what he wanted. Given all of this, I cant fairly conclude that 
Aviva prevented Mr H from making changes to his account or that its responsible for the 
subsequent losses he says he suffered. 
I know that this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman