DRN-4102349
The complaint
Mr C complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a £9.45 payment to go through on his 
Barclaycard after he had closed the account. He said this meant that he had to pay more on 
a remortgage. Mr C wants £25,000 compensation.
What happened
Mr C opened a Barclaycard in April 2019. On a number of occasions, he missed making a 
payment or was late paying the minimum payment. Barclays sent him letters about this, for 
example in August, September, November and December 2021, and in January 2022 it sent 
him a letter saying hed missed three payments. This letter included: We send information 
about how you manage any accounts you hold with us to the Credit Reference Agencies. 
Missed or late payments may affect your ability to borrow in the future. If you're worried 
about this and want to stop further impact to your credit rating, please get in touch.
Between 20 January and 1 February, Mr C made four payments to his Barclaycard, bringing 
the balance to zero. 
On 6 February, there was a £9.45 transaction to a retailer Mr C had previously used 
frequently. So his statement issued on 8 February showed a balance of £9.45, and it said a 
£5 minimum payment was due by 7 March. Mr Cs statements were sent electronically.
Mr C didnt make a payment. His statement issued on 8 March showed a travel transaction 
on 16 February for £4.10, so, with the previous £9.45 balance plus 20p interest, the balance 
was £13.75.
Barclays tried to contact Mr C by text, email and letter over the next few months. On 20 July, 
Mr C paid £15.08 which was the balance and interest outstanding at that point, bringing the 
balance to zero.
On 19 September, Mr C contacted Barclays and disputed the 6 February £9.45 transaction. 
He said he hadnt opened his online statements sent to him, because he said the account 
had been closed with a nil balance. 
On 22 September, Mr C contacted Barclays again and complained. He said that in February 
2022 he had asked for the account to be closed, which Barclays hadnt done. He told 
Barclays that he wasnt sure whether or not he had authorised the £9.45 transaction on 6 
February. Mr C also asked for the late payment markers for March to July 2022 to be 
removed from his credit file.
In Barclays final response letter on 5 October, it said that its fraud department had accepted 
the £9.45 transaction as fraudulent and had credited it back to the account. It closed Mr Cs 
account, sending the £9.45 credit to his bank. It also paid him £25 for the service received, 
and said it had arranged for the late payment markers from March to July 2022 to be 
removed from Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that when he complained to 
Barclays, hed been at the point of re-mortgaging. He said hed been declined by High Street 
lenders, including his existing mortgage lender, because of missed payments on his credit 
file. Mr C calculated how much more interest, and fees, he believed hed pay over the five 
year fixed term of the mortgage with his new lender, and said that he wanted £25,000 
compensation from Barclays.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said that although Mr C had cleared the 
balance on his account at the start of February, there was no evidence that hed instructed 
Barclays to close the account. Barclays had also notified Mr C about the subsequent 
transaction by text and letter, using the correct address and phone number recorded on the 
system. The investigator also said that she couldnt agree that Mr C being declined for his 
preferred mortgage could be solely attributed to the February transaction. She thought that 
the £25 Barclays had paid Mr C was fair, as there had been no evidence of any instruction to 
close the card, and Mr C had been notified about the outstanding balance.
Mr C didnt agree. He sent a screenshot of a text message from Barclays confirming the 
instruction to close his account. But the investigator pointed out that this wasnt dated. Mr C 
sent a revised version with a date added below the previous screenshot. The investigator 
also asked Barclays to check its chat records for February 2022 but Barclays didnt find 
anything from Mr C. 
Mr C said he hadnt received any letters from Barclays because hed moved house shortly 
after closing the account in February. But the investigator didnt change her view.
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision. He sent a list of points, including why would he 
check his account if It had a zero balance and was closed. He said the reason his address 
wasnt changed on Barclays records until late July 2022 was that that was the first 
interaction hed had with them, via text. He said that for the sake of £9.45 it had cost him 
thousands of pounds and also affected his health. He said that the last person hed spoken 
to at Barclays had said theyll put this through as fraud, as it would cost them too much 
money to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, in addition to the 6 February £9.45 transaction which Mr C later 
disputed, there was another transaction on 16 February, a travel transaction for £4.10. Mr C 
never disputed that transaction. So he must have known at that date that the account hadnt 
been closed when hed reduced the balance to zero on 1 February. He must also have 
known that hed have to pay for that undisputed transaction at some point. I cant see how 
he could genuinely have believed the account had been closed at the start of February, after 
he used the card later in the month and that undisputed transaction went through 
successfully on 16 February.
Ive also seen evidence that shows that Barclays contacted Mr C multiple times about the 
balance on his account after Mr C reduced the balance to zero at the start of February 2022. 
It also did this by electronic means, not just by the postal letters from its collections team. So 
Mr C moving home at some point around that date doesnt make any difference to whether 
or not he received information about his account.
Mr Cs statements were electronic, and the contact notes record that Mr C told Barclays that 
he hadnt opened his online statements after February 2022 because he said the account had been closed. In view of the undisputed 16 February transaction, I find it unlikely that he 
could reasonably have believed the account was closed. And even if he did think it was 
closed, it would be reasonable to expect him to have opened them, to check why he was still 
getting them.
I also note that Barclays had sent Mr C multiple missed payment letters before February 
2022. Ive set out the dates of some of those in the facts above. Banks have a responsibility 
to report missed payments. So there would have been several other missed and late 
payment markers which would correctly have been reported on Mr Cs credit file from 
previous Barclaycard payment problems. This means that any issues Mr C might have had 
on his credit file cant be attributed solely to the one £9.45 payment which he later disputed. 
Its much more likely to have been a history of missed and late payments.
In any event, without a full picture of Mr Cs finances, income, expenditure and credit 
records, its just not possible to attribute any mortgage rejections to Barclaycard alone. I also 
note that the mortgage offer which Mr C sent to us was in joint names. So any credit 
problems might have related to this joint applicant too. There is simply insufficient evidence 
to conclude that one £9.45 disputed transaction was responsible for Mr C and his partner 
being declined for the mortgage they wanted. On balance, I consider its more likely than not 
that this issue wasnt responsible for Mr C and his partners failure to be accepted for the 
mortgage they wanted.
Finally, Barclays paid Mr C £25 for customer service. I find that this was generous in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, and I dont require Barclays to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman