DRN-3559688
The complaint
Mr M complained to Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) about the sale of three 
freestanding additional contribution (FSAVC) plans.
Mr M is being represented in his complaint by a claims management company. And both Mr 
Ms representative and Wesleyan have actuaries assisting them with this matter.
What happened
In 1997, following advice from Wesleyan, Mr M took out a FSAVC plan [plan 1], contributing
£3,690.80 annually until 2006 when a final contribution of £2,628.86 was paid. At the time
Mr M was a member of his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS). Mr M took out a
further plan [plan 2] in November 1998, making a single lump sum contribution of £2,628.86.
A further plan was taken out in 2001 [plan 3] but was subsequently cancelled in 2005 after a
review was completed and it was determined that Mr M didnt have the headroom to make
the additional contribution. Mr M received a refund of the single contribution he paid into plan
3 in 2005.
In 2019, Mr Ms representative complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plans.
Wesleyan explained that Mr M had received a refund in respect of plan 3 and it didnt
consider the complaint about plans 1 & 2 as it thought it had been made too late under the
rules that apply.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service where it was considered by one of our
investigators. The investigator didnt think the complaint had been made too late under the
relevant rules and so was satisfied it was one this service could consider. And having,
reviewed the merits of the complaint, the investigator thought the complaint should be
upheld. In summary the investigator said that, by Wesleyans own admission, there was no
evidence to show that Mr M was provided with a comparison of benefits between his OPS
and the FSAVC plans, nor that he was informed of the difference in charges.
The investigator thought that if Mr M had been made aware, he would most likely have
joined the in-house AVC arrangement. The investigator didnt think Mr M would have taken
added years if hed been told about them.
Mr M accepted the investigators opinion and Wesleyan completed a loss assessment on a
charges only basis.
Wesleyan wrote to Mr Ms representative in October 2020. It said that, having completed its
review and calculations, it had determined that Mr M had not suffered a loss as a result of
the advice he received to take out the FSAVCs instead of being a member of the in-house
AVC scheme. Its letter said:
[plan 1] for annual contributions (gross) of £3,690.80 commencing in January 1997,
reducing to an annual contribution (gross) of £2,628.86 from January 2006, which
was the last payment. The contributions were invested in with profits funds
A second [plan 2] was taken out in November 1998 and a single contribution (gross)
of £2,382 was paid and invested in unit linked funds.
Both plans transferred out of Wesleyan Assurance Society on 11 July 2009. The
advice to transfer was not provided by Wesleyan Financial Services.
Instead of paying contributions to the Plans, you could have directed them to the
Scheme AVC arrangement. The Scheme offered members a choice of securing
additional benefits on a money purchase basis and an added years basis. We have
assessed your case assuming you would have made contributions to the NHS
Pension Scheme 'money purchase' AVC.
Loss calculations have been performed based on a comparison of charges between
the FSAVC Plans and the alternative in-house AVC option assuming that you had
chosen to invest initially in the Equitable Life unit linked fund (this attracting lower
charges than the available with profits fund).
The value of the charges is calculated by accumulation of the fund with zero
investment charges less the value of the funds accumulated subject to the individual
Plan charges. For the purposes of comparison, the investment return used is the
CAPS mixed with property fund (Annual) until 1 January 2005 and thereafter the
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index.
As the advice to transfer out of the Plans on 11 July 2009 was not provided by
Wesleyan Financial Services loss has been assessed as if you had not transferred
out. This means that a charges comparison has been carried out for the period from
January 1997 to your Normal Retirement Date in the [OPS] (1 March 2020).
The calculation of loss is limited to the contributions paid whilst employed and a
member of the relevant Scheme.
On this basis, at 1 March 2020, the value of the investment charges incurred within
the two FSAVC Plans were higher than those under the [OPS] AVC option by
£18,498.74.
However, [plan 1] benefited from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Option (GAO) which
provided for an enhanced annuity at retirement by comparison with a competitive
annuity expected to be available in the annuity market. Allowance is made in the loss
assessment for the notional enhancement to the fund value due to this GAO.
Under the GAO at age 60 on 1 March 2020 there would have been a guaranteed
annual pension of £7.016 per £100.00 (of the fund value) payable monthly in
advance with a 5-year guarantee and with no increases. The notional value of Plan
[plan 1] at 1 March 2020 has been calculated to be £84,641.29. To purchase an
equivalent pension at this date as that available from the notional fund would have
required an amount of £143,312.79 (this being calculated based on the FCA
calculation methodology for defined benefits).
The notional fund enhancement at 1 March 2020 is therefore £58,671.50
In calculating the notional fund enhancement, allowance has been made for 25% of
the Plan to be taken in the form of a tax-free lump sum.
Comparing the charges loss of £18,498.74 with the notional fund enhancement of
£58,671.50 due the GAO there is a gain of £40,172.76.
Therefore, there is no loss to you and no redress is due.Mr Ms representative challenged Wesleyan about its approach but ultimately the matter
remains unresolved so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
In summary, Mr Ms representative has said the value of the GAO should not be included in
charges only calculations. In addition, it has queried the annual management charge used in
the calculation  that being 1.5%. It says that FSAVC review bulletin 4 says that:
The default assumption of 1.3% a year is likely to be appropriate for cases where the
FSAVC was set up on a nil commission basis but it is likely to be inappropriate for cases
where commission was taken. ... Where commission has been taken and annual
management charge or RIY information is not available, it is reasonable for firms to 
assume that the charges borne by the investor for the purposes of loss assessment are 
2.9% a year. ... Firms may use an alternative assumption if there is demonstrable 
evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate. For example, where a fee was 
paid by the investor in place of commission in return for a reduction in charges, then a 
lower figure, plus the amount of the fee, might be appropriate.
The actuaries assisting Mr Ms representative has said that, for FSAVC default charges, they
model 1.3% pa if they know that the FSAVC was set up on a nil commission basis and 2.9%
per annum otherwise, i.e. if they dont know the commission status or they dont know that
commission was taken.
Wesleyan remains of the view that its not inappropriate to include the value of the GAO in its
los calculation.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision in June 2022. My provisional
findings are set out below.
Both parties agree that Mr M would have joined his in-house AVC arrangement had 
his FSAVC plans not been mis-sold. So, all thats left for me to decide is what needs 
to be done to put matters right.
Following concerns about mis-selling, the regulator at that time told businesses to 
carryout a review of some FSAVC plans sold between 29 April 1988 and 15 August 
1999. The main aim was to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have 
lost matching contributions or subsidies that the employer wouldve paid, had an in-
house AVC plan been started instead. The sale of Mr Ms plans didnt fall within the 
review because the OPS didnt match or subsidise payments to its in-house AVC 
arrangement.
However, when we uphold a consumer's complaint and its determined that they 
shouldve been advised to take in-house AVCs instead of FSAVCs, we do generally 
tell the business to pay compensation in accordance with the FSAVC review 
guidance, even if the FSAVC plan didnt fall within the scope of the review.
While acknowledging that the model guidance is useful, its simply that, guidance. It 
doesnt set out rules that all businesses must follow. And, in some circumstances, its 
not appropriate to apply the guidance if it will result in unfair redress for a consumer 
that has been mis-sold an FSAVC plan.Having reviewed matters, I do think the guidance allows firms to consider whether no 
loss has been suffered by a consumer. And I also think that one of the situations 
where it can do this is when the FSAVC has a GAO. I say this because of clause 
6.25 of the guidance.
6.25 Firms may wish to investigate whether there has in fact been no financial loss
suffered despite the possible loss of employer matching contributions, subsidised
benefits or lower level of charges in the in-house AVC arrangement.
6.25.1 If the investor has lost out on employer matching contributions or other
subsidised benefits, it is almost certain that a loss will have occurred. However, an
example of circumstances when a loss will not have occurred is where the
investment performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC
arrangement by more than the cumulative value of the lost employer contributions
and any difference in charges. A further example might be where the FSAVC offers
some kind of valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement.
6.25.2 If a firm finds an investor for whom circumstances such as those in paragraph
6.25.1 apply they may conclude that no loss has been suffered.
My understanding of the above is that this allows firms to consider whether in fact no 
loss has been suffered and an example it provides is where the investment 
performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC arrangement by 
more than the cumulative value of the lost employer contributions and any difference 
in charges. A further example might be where the FSAVC offers some kind of 
valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement.[my emphasis]
I think the GAO would qualify as a valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement. 
However, I dont think it necessarily follows that it will always be fair for a firm to 
include its value just because an FSAVC plan has a GAO.
Its important to highlight that the pensions environment has changed significantly 
since the guidance was published in May 2000. The options a consumer had when 
taking their benefits at that time were fairly limited. And I think its likely that it would 
generally have been envisaged that the majority of consumers would take an annuity 
when they took the benefits of their FSAVC plans.
I dont think it would have necessarily been unreasonable to suggest that many 
consumers would have utilised their GAOs at retirement, had that been an option on 
their plan. And under these circumstances, it might not have been considered 
unreasonable for a firm to consider whether the inclusion of the GAO meant that the 
consumer may not have suffered a loss.
However, there have been several changes over the years to the rules for consumers
accessing their pension via drawdown, along with major changes introduced in April 
2015, widely known as pension freedoms. These changes have given consumers 
more flexibility in the way they can access their pension benefits. And these 
freedoms apply not only to the FSAVC plans but would also have been accessible 
under the in-house AVC arrangement. The result of this is that there has been a 
considerable decline in the number of consumers taking annuities.
I note that on another case we have considered here Wesleyan has said that where 
a valuable GAO exists, it would normally expect an investor to take it. I do accept that 
those that do opt to take an annuity, may well utilise any guarantees available on 
their plans because current annuity rates on the open market have dropped considerably. But ultimately these freedoms mean that not all consumers with 
FSAVCs are taking an annuity  and in turn they arent utilising the GAOs - when 
they take their FSAVC benefits.
In the case of Mr M, he has transferred his plans away from Wesleyan and so hasnt
benefited from the GAO. I appreciate that the advice given to Mr M to transfer away 
may not have been provided by Wesleyan but I dont think that alters my decision. I 
say this because Wesleyan has upheld the complaint on the basis that the FSAVC 
was mis-sold and Mr M would instead have joined the in-house AVC arrangement. If 
Mr M had been in the in-house AVC then he could also have transferred his plan to 
another provider; he would not have been restricted to buying an annuity with the in-
house fund. So, for these reasons, I dont think its appropriate for Wesleyan to take 
the value of the GAO into account when the complaint has been upheld on this basis. 
Had Mr M been a member of his in-house AVC, he would also have had the option to 
take his benefits flexibly  but, as at 1 March 2020, he would have paid £18,498.74 
less in charges to the AVC.
For this reason, Im currently minded to say that, where the complaint has been 
upheld on the basis that the consumer would have opted to contribute to the in-house 
AVC, its not appropriate for Wesleyan to take account of the value the GAO adds to 
the plan.
However, just because Mr M would have paid less in charges, it doesnt necessarily 
mean that he has suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. And Im aware that 
Wesleyan has raised this issue as it considers its FSAVC funds have performed 
particularly well.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied the regulators FSAVC review guidance allows a firm 
to consider if no loss has been suffered and one of the instances where it can do so 
is where the investment performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-
house AVC arrangement by more than the cumulative value of the lost employer 
contributions and any difference in charges. So, in my final decision I intend to direct 
Wesleyan to carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC. If it 
can demonstrate that the FSAVCs performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by 
more than the higher charges Mr M has paid, then it may conclude that he has not 
suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. However, if a loss is identified 
Wesleyan should pay Mr M the value of the excess charges.
Im aware that, despite several attempts, Wesleyan has been unable to obtain 
notional values from the in-house AVC scheme. This isnt surprising given that the 
firm operating the scheme has changed over the years. So I have set out below, in 
the putting things right section, details of the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to 
run the comparison.
Mr Ms representative has also queried the rate of annual management charge that
Wesleyan has used in its calculation. The guidance states the default is either 1.3% 
or 2.9% per annum, depending on whether commission was paid. However, its only 
necessary to use the default if the actual charges are unknown. If Wesleyan can 
demonstrate that its using the actual the annual management charge that applies to 
Mr Ms plan, then it doesnt need to use the default. However, if its unaware of what 
the actual charge is, then it should revert to the applicable default.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr Ms representative has said that it has nothing further to add. Wesleyan remains of the view that the guaranteed benefits provided by the plan are 
valuable. But it is pleased that it is able to make an initial assessment of whether there has 
been a loss. But as the plan has been transferred away from Wesleyan, it says the 
comparison with the "benchmarked value of FSAVC contributions" (at the relevant date)
should be based on the actual value of the Wesleyan FSAVC plan as at the date of transfer. 
It says that this is a fair and reasonable comparison that ensures that any liability for 
underperformance against the benchmark following the investor's decision to transfer the 
plan elsewhere does not fall to Wesleyan. 
In terms of the annual management charge that its used in its calculation, its explained that 
its recently completed a piece of work looking at the reduction in yield for the fund Mr M is 
invested in. And it considers 1.5% to be fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Wesleyan considers that the guaranteed benefits are valuable. But I remain of 
the view that it would be inappropriate to take the value of the GAO into account when 
completing this type of calculation. My reasons for this were set out in my provisional 
findings so I dont intend to repeat these here. 
In terms of the annual management charge Wesleyan has used in the calculation, having 
considered what its said, Im satisfied that 1.5% is fair as it reflects the reduction in yield in 
the fund.  And as explained in my provisional findings, Im satisfied the default charge 
amounts Mr Ms representative has referenced are only relevant if the business is unaware 
of the actual charge. 
However, I do acknowledge that Mr Ms plan has been transferred. I agree that, in these 
circumstances, its appropriate for Wesleyan to complete the comparison of the FSAVC and 
the notional value of the in-house AVC on the date the plan was transferred. I think this is a 
fair comparison. If a loss is identified at this stage, Wesleyan should revert to the standard 
charges only calculation as set out in my provisional decision.
Mr Ms representative has been notified of this change and hasnt provided any further 
comments. So I see no reasons to depart from this. Ive therefore set out below what 
Wesleyan needs to do to put matters rights. 
Putting things right
As at the date Mr M transferred away from Wesleyan:
If Wesleyan wishes to consider whether no loss has been suffered, it should calculate a
notional value for the in-house AVC scheme as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other
half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds index. I've chosen this benchmark because this
would have achieved capital growth with a small risk to the capital. The average rate for the
fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable
return without risk to his capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made upof a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government
bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a small degree of risk to
get a higher return.
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean
that Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly
reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objective
and risk attitude.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC with this notional value. If
the actual value exceeds the notional value no financial loss has been suffered and it need
not take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would
ordinarily be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking
this particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr M the value of the excess charges as a lump
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Wesleyan Assurance Society to 
carry out calculations as above. If Mr M accepts the final decision, Wesleyan should add 8% 
simple per year on any loss from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman