DRN-3060382
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC closed her bank account without notification.
What happened
Mrs H had a current account that became overdrawn. Mrs H didnt have an agreed overdraft 
on the account, so Lloyds wrote to Mrs H and asked her to bring the account back into 
credit. Mrs H didnt respond to the letters that Lloyds sent, so Lloyds sent a further letter 
informing Mrs H that they would close the account if the account continued to remain 
overdrawn. The account did remain overdrawn, and so Lloyds wrote off the overdrawn 
balance and closed the account. Mrs H wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mrs Hs complaint, but they noted that theyd sent a series of letters to Mrs 
H advising her of the need to bring the account back to a positive balance, and later that 
they intended to close the account if it continued to be overdrawn. Because of this, they 
didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the letters that Lloyds had 
sent to Mrs H had given her sufficient notice of their intentions, and so they also didnt 
uphold this complaint.
Mrs H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been disappointing for Mrs H to have discovered that 
Lloyds had closed her current account when she hadnt received any notification from Lloyds 
that such a closure was scheduled to take place.
Lloyds have been able to demonstrate that they sent a series of letters to Mrs H over a 
period of several weeks which informed Mrs H that the account was overdrawn and later 
advised Mrs H that they intended to close the account if it continued to remain overdrawn. 
Furthermore, Lloyds have demonstrated that these letters were addressed to the same 
address that Mrs H gave as her address to this service.
Mrs H has stated that she didnt receive any of these letters and has asked how she can be 
expected to respond to correspondence that she didnt receive. I dont dispute Mrs Hs 
testimony here, but this service wouldnt consider holding a business accountable for the 
non-delivery of sent letters, and this is because the delivery of sent letters is undertaken by a 
postal service and therefore isnt something over which the business has direct control.
Importantly, regardless of whether the letters sent by Lloyds were or werent received by Mrs 
H, it remained Mrs Hs responsibility, as the account holder, to have monitored the account 
and to have been aware of the status of the account and of any actions that might have been 
required on it. 
But Mrs H appears not to have done that here, and I dont feel that I can reasonably say that 
Lloyds acted unfairly in how they subsequently acted, given that Im satisfied that they did 
send letters to Mrs Hs address and that they allowed the overdrawn balance to persist for a 
period of several months - providing Mrs H with the opportunity to rectify the account position 
- before they took action to close the account.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs H was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time. 
I trust that Mrs H will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman