DRN-2990024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold a Select Account (SA) in September 2001, a 
Platinum Account (PA) in November 2001, and a Premier Account (PRA) in 2011 by Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C had used a free account for many years before they took out the SA, and then 
the PA and PRA represented upgrades on their previous accounts. So, in my view, they 
were aware that they had a choice each time they took out the packaged bank accounts and 
they chose to do so.
Our adjudicator explained to Mr and Mrs C in her view that she considered its more likely 
than not that the SA, PA and PRA were not unsuitable for them. This was because they 
were able to and did, at various times, use some of the main benefits such as the interest 
free overdraft, the car breakdown cover, the travel insurance, and the mobile phone cover.
And they appear to have had the information they needed about the products and more 
information would not have changed their decision to take out the accounts.
So, Ive reached the same conclusion as our adjudicator for the same reasons that Lloyds 
didnt do anything wrong in these sales.
But Mr and Mrs Cs core complaint point is that they told Lloyds on multiple occasions that 
they didnt want all the benefits, they only wanted some of them at a lower price.
Ive considered this carefully and I can fully understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustration that they 
believe they were paying for things they didnt want.
However, in my view, Lloyds is entitled to decide what package of benefits it wants to put 
into the marketplace as a commercial proposition and it is not obliged to tailor a product to 
an individual. And Mr and Mrs C werent locked into the products, they couldve closed the 
accounts at any time and gone back to a fee free product. But they didnt and kept the 
accounts for many years.
So, while I know that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed, I cant say that Lloyds has done 
anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman