DRN-2744023
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a loan in 1987. 
Miss F says Bank of Scotland plc, trading at the time as Halifax, mis-sold this PPI policy to 
her. 
What happened
Miss F took out a secured loan for £3,500 in March 1987. At the same time, she bought a 
PPI policy to protect her loan repayments in the event of her ever becoming unable to work 
or losing her job, in which case the policy would help pay the loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Miss F disagreed 
with this and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Ive read everything Miss F has said about her complaint and considered all her comments 
with great care. Broadly speaking, her main points of complaint revolve around her not 
being given the right, or enough, documentation about the PPI and not being offered a 
choice of insurer.
However, Im afraid I dont agree with Miss F that this policy was mis-sold to her. In fact, I 
think theres very strong evidence pointing the other way.
The first issue I looked at was whether Miss F consented to the PPI cover. Ive seen her 
loan application form, which contained a section about PPI on it. There were two obvious 
boxes available  one to say yes to the PPI and one to say no. Miss Fs form had the first 
of these options ticked and the no box was left empty. This portrayed the optional nature of 
the PPI and she signed the form. The price of the PPI, £1.92 per month, was also set out 
directly below the option to have the policy added, so I think this is reliable evidence that 
Miss F had discussed having PPI and it was something she wanted to have. Miss F herself 
recalls talking about the policy with the Halifax employee, which supports that such a 
discussion took place. 
I also note a copy of a letter dated 6 March 1987, addressed to Miss F, which further 
describes the policy as optional. So, all these things show, strongly in my view, that Halifax 
correctly obtained Miss Fs consent to add the PPI cover. Theres a clear indication it was 
something she wanted to have at the time.
I next considered suitability of the PPI policy. Our adjudicator said the PPI was probably 
recommended to Miss F as part of and advised sale. This was based on Halifax pointing to 
the sale being in a branch, and these tended to be sales where recommendations for such 
cover might be put forward to consumers like Miss F. Having seem many such sales, I think 
this was advised. Miss F, however, points to a letter she received where it was mentioned 
that no advice was given. I think this letter relates to a wider context, potentially about the 
type of borrowing she was taking out, rather than specifically being about the PPI.
However, I should point out that I think the issue of whether advice (or a recommendation) 
was or wasnt given is a moot point  it doesnt actually change or affect what I think about 
Miss Fs complaint. 
Thats because considering it as an advised sale actually holds Halifax to a higher 
standard; it means Halifax needed to make sure the policy was suitable for Miss Fs 
individual circumstances and as a business it would have needed to do more. A non-
advised sale would mean the decision was entirely Miss Fs and that Halifax needed only to 
provide basic information about the policy.
So, even holding Halifax to the higher standard, I still think the policy was suitable for her 
anyway. She was eligible for the cover and I see nothing to indicate she was caught by 
any of the typical limitations or restrictions we see in these policies. This was also a 
relatively long-term loan. Therefore, the consequences of not being able to keep up 
payments could have been problematic for Miss F. On the other hand, the cost of the PPI 
was moderate, and it would have paid out for up to 24 months if Miss F had needed to 
claim. This was much longer than any sick pay she might have had, which she estimated to 
be six weeks. So I think the policy was suitable for her.
I cant say Miss F would have been told everything they should have been, not least 
because these events were 34 years ago now. She says she received no documentation, 
but my experience is that she would have been given a copy of the policy rules. Theres no 
dispute PPI was sold to Miss F, so I see no reason for the insurer not have communicated 
with her, including sending her a policy schedule of some description. We know she properly  
signed up for this cover, so I think if she had received absolutely nothing back about it, she 
would have been prompted to ask why.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss F and Im sure she herself still genuinely believes the PPI to 
have been mis-sold. However, everything Ive seen points to PPI sale being relatively open 
with the disclosure of information generally being good. She was given a straightforward 
choice about having PPI, told about the cost  and in my view more likely to have been told 
or sent quite a lot about what the policy did, by way of confirmation. Halifax was under no 
obligation to offer her a choice from a menu of different insurance companies.
This PPI policy was not mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman