DRN-3824350
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to an 
impersonation scam.
What happened
Mr R received a message from a number he didnt have saved on his phone. It began with, 
Hi mum its me x I have a new phone this is my new number. I took a new one because the 
other one didnt work properly, can you save this number and delete my old one?
Mr R replied and there was an informal exchange of messages, with what might be 
described as inside jokes being used. Across those messages, the fraudster claimed to be 
Mr Rs son.  
Mr R told the fraudster hed put £50 into his sons wifes account for his birthday, which the 
fraudster thanked him for. The fraudster then asked Mr R to call him because he had an 
issue he needed help with. Mr R tried to call but the fraudster said the call wouldnt connect 
properly and he was unable to answer, probably because of the new SIM card not being fully 
activated. The fraudster went on to describe the issue to Mr R.
The fraudster said he had some payments that needed to be made but that his banking app 
wasnt yet activated on the new phone. He asked if Mr R could make a payment of £1,669 
for him. Mr R asked how his son would repay the money and the fraudster said he had 
money in savings he could send in a couple of days once his banking apps were working. 
Mr R went on to send the money to the account details provided. Hes explained that he was 
worried that his son was in some kind of trouble, to need to send the money so urgently. 
Mr R has told us how his son has been in trouble with gambling in the past and gotten 
himself into debt. He was concerned thats why he owed the payee money and, in his panic, 
he thought it might be some kind of loan shark. 
Mr R has further explained that his panic and concern was exacerbated by the fact that his 
son is often stressed and busy, in part because he cares for his two children whom have 
neurodiverse conditions.
The fraudster then asked if Mr R could make a further payment, but Mr R said he wouldnt 
be able to help until he had the first lot of money back.    
Mr R then didnt hear anything for a couple of days and started to get worried. He was able 
to speak to his son genuinely and the scam was uncovered.
Mr R raised a fraud claim with HSBC. It considered whether Mr R ought to be reimbursed 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But it said that Mr R had failed to 
meet his requisite level of care because hed ignored an effective warning. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Rs complaint after he referred it to our service. He 
said that HSBC had unfairly withheld a refund under the CRM Code. He didnt believe it had 
provided an effective warning.
Once the case was with our service HSBC had also suggested Mr R hadnt held a 
reasonable basis for believing he was legitimately speaking with his son, invoking a second 
exception to reimbursement under the Code. 
Our investigator didnt find Mr R had lacked a reasonable basis of belief. He could 
understand why Mr R acted the way he did given his sons history. He noted there was 
nothing alarming in the exchange of messages that ought to have made Mr R suspicious of 
a scam. 
He said, because the circumstances and evidence didnt show either exception to 
reimbursement under the Code could be applied, Mr R should receive a full refund of his 
loss, plus interested calculated at 8% simple from the date the claim was declined to the 
date of reimbursement. 
HSBC responded and, after some further discussion, accepted our investigators position 
with regards to the warnings not being effective. It offered to refund 50% of the loss on that 
basis. But it maintained that Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis for belief, stating there 
were so many red flags and assumptions made by Mr R, and that, Mr R has a 
responsibility to take care and due diligence which did not happen here.  
As an agreement hasnt been reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
There has been a minor development since the case has been passed to me. Our 
investigator has explained to Mr R that the interest element of the redress ought to be 
changed. Instead of receiving an interest payment calculated at 8% simple per year, its to 
be calculated at the rate applicable to the account the money was lost from. Thats because 
whilst Mr R hasnt had access to the funds, he didnt have any particular plans to spend the 
money and hes not lost out on an opportunity or purchase as a result of HSBCs decision 
not to refund. Instead, hes said he would likely have saved the money. And so the 
investigator said the account rate was the fair and reasonable rate to use.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. 
HSBC originally (in its final response) said Mr R ignored what it considered to be an effective 
warning. But HSBC has since accepted our investigators findings on that point and agreed 
to a 50% refund. So theres no need for me to consider that element of the complaint further.
What remains is HSBCs contention that Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis for believing 
he was speaking with his son. HSBC says Mrs R ought to have noticed what it refers to as 
red flags and done more to make sure it was his son he was talking to by carrying out due 
diligence.
Its for me to determine whether the remaining exception to reimbursement can be fairly 
applied in the circumstances of this case. 
Did Mr R have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of the payment and the person 
he was speaking to were legitimate?
Its important to remember when dealing with scams like this, and in fact any scams, that 
customers are generally not in a state of alert when it comes to detecting and preventing 
fraud. People dont expect to be scammed in their day to day life. And I think its easy for the 
banking industry to become almost hyper-sensitive to scams, where the expectation is that all details of any interaction ought to be questioned by a customer. Particularly when 
reviewing a case of fraud in hindsight. 
But that isnt a realistic view of how individuals go about their lives and the expectation is set 
too high. 
Unless there is something within an interaction that clearly seems out of place or unusual, 
people will often not detect that something might be wrong. Scams like this succeed 
because fraudsters are adept at exploiting human nature and behaviours. Mr Rs case is a 
prime example of such exploitation.
HSBC says there were so many red flags and assumptions but thats looking at the 
circumstances of the case from the perspective of reviewing, or perhaps anticipating, a 
scam. That isnt a real world or real time view of what happened. The bank has highlighted 
steps that Mr R could have taken to prevent the scam. But the Code doesnt require an 
assessment of whether the scam could have been prevented. Its whether the customer had 
a reasonable basis for believing they were making a legitimate payment at the time.
Its clear from the content of the messages that Mr R immediately believed he was speaking 
with his son. And he even determined which son (for he has other children) was most likely 
contacting him. Mr Rs early belief was cemented by the initial interactions with the fraudster, 
where the inside jokes were picked up on and used by the fraudster. Its in considering 
these interactions that even moving past the opening message (being addressed hi mum, 
instead of hi Dad) without alarm can be understood as reasonable. There was even an 
interaction about Mr Rs sons birthday which the fraudster cleverly reacted to. 
What followed was a not entirely unexpected request for help with a payment. This was set 
up through texts with the fraudster, but its important to note that calls were suggested and 
attempted to help lend legitimacy to the story about the broken phone. Whilst unsuccessful, 
the fraudster had made it appear as though he was happy to speak to Mr R on the phone. 
I say the request for help wasnt unexpected because Mr R has explained how he has 
helped his son out before, specifically when hed gotten into financial trouble through 
gambling. So the request did fit past circumstances, making it not entirely unexpected. 
The conclusions Mr R drew about the purpose of the payment werent unreasonable in the 
circumstances. I can see why Mr R felt panicked to act quickly. He thought his son was 
probably in some trouble that he urgently needed help getting out of. This is exactly the kind 
of emotional response thats being targeted in these scams  where parents are tricked into 
believing they are helping their children, often urgently, through clever manipulation by 
fraudsters. Its then understandable, and reasonable, that Mr R didnt question the 
circumstances as he otherwise might have done. That doesnt mean his basis of belief was 
unreasonable. The fraudster played on an emotional response, that Mr R was unlikely to be 
particularly aware of at the time.
HSBC has questioned why Mr R didnt tell his son to make a payment via telephone 
banking, or to use his wifes phone. This isnt a complete list of its objections, but they are all 
of a similar theme. Ive already said how an assessment under the Code doesnt mean 
questioning whether a scam might have been prevented. But the objections raised by HSBC 
can all be described in that way. I dont find its otherwise presented sufficient evidence or 
argument to say that Mr Rs claim under the Code ought to have been declined because of a 
lack of a reasonable basis of belief.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Mr R ought to have received a refund from HSBC as neither of the potential 
exceptions to reimbursement apply. It is then fair and reasonable that it refund him now.
HSBC should:Refund the £1,669 Mr R lost to the scam
Pay interest on that amount at the rate applicable to the account the money was sent 
from, calculated from the date the claim was declined to the date of reimbursement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman