DRN-1883798
 
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
What happened
Mrs P was insured with Admiral. On 24 September 2018, she was involved in an accident 
with a bus. Mrs P reported the accident to Admiral the following day on 25 September and 
claimed for the damage to her car on her Admiral policy. Although the claim for the damage 
to her car was made on her policy, Admiral referred her to a credit hire company who 
provided her with a hire car.
The hire car company is a separate business to Admiral. They provided Mrs P with a hire car 
similar to hers. And the credit hire company then pursued the insurer of the bus to recover 
the costs of the hire car. But to recover the costs of the hire car the credit hire company had 
to get an admission from the other insurer that the bus driver was to blame for the accident. 
But that didnt happen and when the bus driver disputed liability the credit hire company 
asked Mrs P to pay the hire car costs, which I understand were around £8,000.
Mrs P complained. She was entitled to a courtesy car under her Admiral policy. So, she said 
Admiral should have never referred her to the credit hire company which exposed her to the 
risk of being held responsible for their hire car charges, which would never have happened 
had she been given a courtesy car by Admiral. She said when she told Admiral about the 
accident they advised her that it wasnt a clear cut case and that liability was likely to be 
disputed. So, Admiral should never have referred her to the credit hire company and Admiral 
didnt provide her with adequate information about what was involved in her being referred to 
a credit hire company.
Admiral didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. As a result, Mrs P brought her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that Admiral hadnt treated Mrs P 
fairly. Our investigator recommended that Admiral pay any costs the credit hire company 
claimed from Mrs P. She also suggested Admiral should pay Mrs P £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience she suffered. As Admiral didnt agree with our investigator, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for reasons similar to those as explained by our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully listened to the call between Mrs P and Admiral that took place on 
25 September 2018. Its clear that Admirals call handler believed liability would be in 
dispute. The call handler said it was possible liability might be split or shared. And for that 
reason he told Mrs P that her claim for the damage to her car would be processed under her 
Admiral policy.
Insurers and brokers do often refer policyholders to credit hire companies in certain 
circumstances. As explained, a credit hire company is a separate business to the insurer 
and the broker. And there are certain advantages of referring a policyholder to them. But the 
fundamental reason for such a referral to be made is that the circumstances of the accident 
are such that its almost certain the other drivers insurer will admit liability for the accident. If 
there is any doubt that the other insurer will accept liability we think its unreasonable to refer 
a policyholder to a credit hire company. Thats because using a credit hire company will 
expose the policyholder to costs, as happened in Mrs Ps case. The credit hire company will 
incur costs in providing the policyholder with a car similar to their own and then try to recover 
the costs from the other insurer. But if the credit hire company is unsuccessful in doing that, 
as happened in Mrs Ps case, they may ask the policyholder to pay those costs.
During the call it was clear that Mrs P was upset and she made it clear this was the first 
accident she had ever had in her life. Its also clear she had no in-depth insurance industry 
knowledge and didnt know the difference between getting a replacement car under her 
policy or through a credit hire company. Admirals call handler first suggested he could refer 
her to a credit hire company for her to get a like for like hire car. He later suggested she 
could get a small courtesy car from Admirals approved repairer. Mrs P was clearly confused 
and asked for clarification between the two. The call handler explained Admirals approved 
repairer would provide a small car whereas the credit hire company would provide a car 
similar to hers. And I think thats what swayed Mrs P as her own car was a family car so I 
can understand why she preferred to have a car similar to hers.
But I think the main issue is Admirals call handler, having clearly formed the opinion that 
liability would be In issue, suggested a referral to the credit hire company. He shouldnt have 
done that as I expect Admiral to know how credit hire companies work and the risk Mrs P 
would be exposed to.
Mrs P said after her discussion with Admiral on 25 September 2018, she did some research 
into the credit hire company and found out what their role was. She therefore called Admiral 
on 27 September. Admirals contact notes show that when Mrs P called them she was 
concerned about using the credit hire company. This again suggests that Admiral hadnt 
explained things clearly to her during the referral call. I think at that stage on 27 September 
Admiral could have told Mrs P that she could change her mind and get a courtesy car from 
Admirals approved repairer rather than a hire car through the credit hire company. But that 
didnt happen and I don't think that was fair.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay all the costs the credit hire company has asked Mrs P to pay in relation to the 
hire car they provided her.
Pay Mrs P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs P has accepted my 
final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simpleMy final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay all the costs the credit hire company has asked Mrs P to pay in relation to the 
hire car they provided her.
Pay Mrs P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs P has accepted my 
final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.i
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman
i If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mrs P how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs P a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.