DRN-3620430
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Arrow Global Limited has unfairly recorded adverse information on her 
credit file. 
What happened
Mrs C had a credit card with a business Ill call V. Mrs C has told us she agreed a payment 
arrangement with V after the account fell into arrears. In July 2019, the account was sold by 
V to Arrow. A Notice of Assignment (NOA) was sent to Mrs C to confirm the new 
arrangements and outstanding balance of £3,462.43. 
Arrow employed agents to contact Mrs C and collect the outstanding balance. Arrow says it 
received payments in August 2019. But after that, Arrow says no further payments from Mrs 
C were received. 
Arrears letters and default notice were sent to Mrs C and the account was ultimately closed. 
A default was recorded on Mrs Cs credit file dated 25 February 2021. 
More recently, new collections agents acting for Arrow contacted Mrs C about the debt. Mrs 
C went on to complain to Arrow which sent a final response on 22 April 2022. Arrow didnt 
agree it had acted unfairly by recording the default and said arrears led to the account 
closure. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They thought Arrow had acted 
reasonably by recording a default but thought it had waited too long to close Mr Cs account. 
The investigator asked Arrow to backdate the default. Arrow agreed to backdate the default 
to 2 February 2020.  
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator and said shed approached V and agreed to pay a 
reduced sum. Mrs C said V had refused to accept her payments and didnt inform her it had 
sold the debt. Mrs C also said Arrow had sent letters but wasnt aware she could arrange a 
monthly payment plan. As Mrs C didnt accept the investigators view, this complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Businesses can transfer debts by assigning them to a new owner. In this case, V assigned 
Mrs Cs credit card account to Arrow in July 2019 whilst it was in arrears. And Arrow sent 
Mrs C a Notice of Assignment to confirm the new arrangements. Ive looked at the address 
Arrow and its agents used and Im satisfied its in line with the details supplied by V. So 
whilst I understand Mrs C didnt take out a credit card with Arrow, Im satisfied V sold the 
account in July 2019 as claimed. 
Mrs C says V refused to accept further payments and didnt tell him the debt had been 
assigned to Arrow in 2019. As a result, the account fell further into arrears and was closed. 
Mrs C has confirmed she received some contact from Arrow but wasnt aware she could 
reach an arrangement to make affordable payments. But Ive looked at the correspondence 
Arrow sent Mrs C and can see it asked her to get in contact and discuss affordable payment 
plans to avoid account closure. 
Ive also looked at Arrow and its agents collections notes and can see they tried to call and 
sent text messages to Mrs C to try and discuss the account. I havent been persuaded that 
Arrow misled Mrs C concerning the status of the account or ability to reach a payment 
arrangement before taking the step of closing it and recording a default. 
Arrow has agreed to backdate the default to 2 February 2020 and I think thats the fairest 
approach. Industry guidelines say businesses will normally apply a default following three to 
six months of arrears. In this case, Arrow took around 18 months and that means the entry 
wouldve remained on Mrs Cs credit file for longer than necessary. Arrows agreement to 
backdate the default means it more accurately reflects the point the credit card account 
shouldve closed. 
Mrs C has queried the number of defaults recorded on her credit file in relation to this debt. 
But the D marker she sees is a monthly indication of the status of the account, not a new 
default. Monthly status reports will be recorded for six years following the date of default. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mrs C but Im satisfied that accurately reflects the status of the account. 
As Im satisfied Arrows agreement to backdate the default to 2 February 2020 is a fair way 
to resolve Mrs Cs complaint Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to backdate 
the default recorded on her credit file to 2 February 2020. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman