DRN-3347641
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his Help to Buy ISA subscriptions a 
number of times. Mr T says he had to spend a significant amount of time calling them to 
resolve the matter. 
What happened
Mr T tried to make payments into his Help to Buy ISA between July and September but 
these were declined. Mr T says throughout this time he contacted Barclays and was always 
assured the issue had been resolved but his payment would again be declined. So, he 
complained. Barclays explained they tried to rectify the issue a number of times however, 
due to human error, this wasnt done correctly and Mr Ts payments continued to be 
declined. They said the issue has now been rectified and Mr Ts July to September 
payments are showing in the ISA. They said, interest adjustments had also been made so 
Mr T doesnt lose out financially. They apologised Mr T had to contact them on a number of 
occasions to resolve the issue. They confirmed they had already credited Mr Ts account 
with £50 compensation and offered a further £200 for the upset and inconvenience caused.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. He thought Barclays offer of compensation was 
reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mr T disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr T will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr T. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Barclays have admitted they got things wrong when Mr Ts payments continued to 
be declined. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer to put things right is fair 
and reasonable.
I think its right that Barclays should compensate Mr T for the inconvenience caused by their 
poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, 
Ive looked at the errors by Barclays and what the impact of those errors have been. 
In July, Mr Ts payment was originally returned as Mr T hadnt completed an ISA declaration 
 which the terms and conditions require in order to continue making contributions. This was 
then completed by Mr T over the phone, but the deposit was returned again. So, theres 
been an error here. In August, Mr T made a payment of £400 but this was declined on the 
basis the payment exceeded the maximum monthly amount of £200 Mr T was allowed to 
deposit. So, I cant say there was an error by Barclays in declining the payment here. 
However, Barclays say £200 of this payment was invalid and needed to be removed, but 
they incorrectly removed £400.10. Barclays then returned £200 into the Help to Buy ISA. 
Then, in September, Mr Ts payment of £200 was declined  so this has been an error by 
Barclays.  
When we look at what a business should do to put things right, we expect a business, where 
possible, to put the customer back in the position they wouldve been in had the error not 
occurred. In this case, and importantly for Mr T, I can see the £200 deposit has been made 
for the months July to September. And, Barclays have made interest adjustments to ensure 
Mr T hasnt lost out financially. So, I think this returns Mr T back in the position he wouldve 
been in had the errors not occurred. This leaves compensation for the impact on Mr T, which 
includes the many phone calls he made and the inconvenience in having to sort the issue 
out. Barclays have provided system notes which say they paid Mr T £50 compensation for 
not giving him correct information. And, Barclays notes refer to Mr T having made around 10 
calls so theyve offered £100 compensation for this and £100 for the upset and 
inconvenience to Mr T. In total, theyve offered £250 compensation. 
Taking this all into account, I think the £250 compensation offered by Barclays is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I can see Barclays have taken appropriate steps to put    
Mr T back in the position he wouldve been had the error not occurred. And, it looks like the 
underlying system issue which led to the errors has been resolved as the October and 
November payments were deposited. I note Mr T says the issue caused considerable stress 
and anxiety over many months as he was worried it mightve had an impact once he was 
ready to use the ISA for a house purchase. While I dont underestimate the upset and worry 
to Mr T, I cant consider the impact on any house purchase as theres no evidence there was 
any consequence. But, I have factored in the worry to Mr T that an issue couldve arisen.   
I can see Mr T says the £50 compensation already paid is in recognition of his complaint 
being ignored originally and Barclays not contacting him on two occasions when they said 
they would. Mr T therefore feels the additional £200 being offered by Barclays doesnt fairly 
reflect the impact the issue involving the declined payments has had. Mr T feels £300 would 
be reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I think the £200 being offered for this part of 
the complaint is reasonable. Barclays were correcting the payments as and when the errors 
were occurring or shortly after, so I cant see the payment errors were left uncorrected for a 
significant period of time. I accept it was frustrating for Mr T to see the September payment 
declined even after being assured everything had been sorted, and I think the £200 
compensation is a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused. And, I think the £200 also 
fairly, and quite rightly, takes into account the many calls Mr T had to make.  
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already paid Mr T £50 compensation and made an offer to pay 
a further £200 compensation, to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the additional £200 compensation 
to Mr T, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman