DRN-3880889
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) was irresponsible to have granted her credit.
What happened
In 2013 Mrs M applied to Ikano for credit so she could purchase a bed from a company that I 
will call B at a cost of £1,457.47.
In her application for credit Mrs M declared (amongst other things) that:
she was married with no dependents
she had been with her bank for 10 years
she held 3 credit cards, 1 debit card and 1 store card
she had a gross annual income of between £40,001 and £50,000
she had been with her employer for 10 years
she was a homeowner
she was paying £600 a month for her mortgage
Based on what Mrs M had stated on her application, and a credit check and indebtedness 
index score provided by one of the major credit reference agencies, Ikano says it agreed to 
provide Mrs M with a fixed sum loan.
Under the terms of this loan Mrs M undertook to pay a deposit of £145.75 followed by 
35 monthly payments of £36.44 and one final payment of £36.32  making a total sum 
repayable of £1,457.47 at an APR of 0%.
Mrs M met all her loan undertakings and on time.
In July 2021 Mrs M complained to Ikano that its decision, in 2013, to grant her credit was 
irresponsible.
In September 2021 Ikano issued Mrs M with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Ikano said it didnt believe it had acted irresponsibly in granting Mrs M the credit 
that it did when it did.
Unhappy with Ikanos response to her complaint, Mrs M referred the matter to our service. 
Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Ikano hadnt been irresponsible when it granted Mrs M credit of £1,311.72 in 2013. He also 
added that even had he concluded the decision to grant credit was irresponsible, the normal 
remedy would be to award a refund of interest. But here the credit agreed was interest free.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are: 
Did Ikano complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay (the loan) in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M would have been able to do so? 
The rules and regulations in place required Ikano to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under the loan. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. 
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Ikano had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Ikano had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs M undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Ikano  to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period)
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. 
This loan was for under £1,500, interest free and repayable at less than £40 a month over 
three years. These facts, together with what Mrs M declared to Ikano about her financial 
circumstances on her application  the accuracy of which isnt in dispute  and what Ikano 
says was information provided to it by one of the major credit reference agencies, Im 
satisfied that Ikano completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. Put another way, Im satisfied 
that Ikanos lending wasnt irresponsible. 
I would also add that even if I was to agree with Mrs M that Ikano should have retained more 
documentation than it has in support of its decision to grant her the credit that it did in 2013   
which for the avoidance of doubt I make no finding on  this isnt in itself grounds for me to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
I dont dispute that further enquires by Ikano might have resulted in information coming to 
light that might have led it to change its mind about its decision to lend. But Im satisfied, 
based on the information available to Ikano at the relevant time, it did nothing wrong in not 
making any further enquiries. And because of my view in this respect, and I hope Mrs M 
doesnt take this as a discourtesy, I see no need to comment on what she says might have 
constituted further enquiries for Ikano to have made and what might have come to light if 
such enquiries had been made, or indeed had Ikano asked more (or different) questions of 
her.
Ikano has confirmed to our service that it didnt ask for, nor was it provided with, a bank 
statement from Mrs M. And Ive no reason to doubt this. But even if I wasnt persuaded by 
what Ikano says on this point, having considered the statements Mrs M has provided our 
service Im not persuaded that sight of one of these statements (dated immediately before or 
shortly before the loan was approved) would have, or should have, caused Ikano not to lend, 
or caused it to make further enquiries.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman