DRN-4383771
The complaint
AS is complaining that U K Insurance Limited  trading as NIG  has declined a claim it 
made on its commercial property insurance policy.
AS and NIG have both been represented by legal firms in the handling of this complaint. For 
ease of reference, I shall refer to any statement made by the legal firms as being said by AS 
and NIG respectively.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, in June 2022 a fire occurred on ASs commercial premises causing a significant 
amount of damage. So AS contacted NIG to claim for the damage on its commercial 
property insurance policy. NIG instructed a loss adjustor to act on its behalf, who in turn, 
instructed an expert engineer to investigate the cause of the fire.
It transpired that the fire started in a waste bin which was assumed to have been initiated 
from an oily rag that had been hit by sparks earlier during a welding process being carried 
out by one of ASs employees. NIG later wrote to AS to say it was intending to decline the 
claim to breaches of the following condition precedents:
It is a condition precedent to the liability of the Company whenever welding or flame 
cutting equipment is used that all welding be carried out in a well ventilated area well 
away from any item containing flammable substances; and  a thorough examination 
is made in and about the area in the work has been undertaken immediately after each 
period of work to ensure that there is no smouldering or damaged combustible material
It is a condition precedent to the liability of the Company that all oily and/or dirty waste 
and greasy cloths be kept in metal receptacles, with metal lids and removed outside the 
buildings every night and completely removed at least once a week
NIG set out that ASs employee did the following in breach of the policy conditions:
Welding was carried out other than well away from any item containing flammable 
substances  i.e. it said welding took place near the oily (flammable) rag;
After the welding, there was no thorough examination to ensure that there was no 
smouldering combustible material.
The employee didnt dispose of the oily and/or dirty waste and greasy cloths in metal 
receptacles, with metal lids;
The receptacles that the rags were placed in were not removed from the premises 
overnight; 
So it said AS had breached a number of condition precedents under the policy which it said 
meant there wasnt any cover under the policy for any loss or damage arising from the fire. 
AS thought NIG was being unfair and, in summary, raised the following:
It took all necessary steps to ensure that the Company, including the activities of its 
employees, complied not only with the relevant policy conditions, but also with all 
relevant health and safety standards and regulations.
It had provided a metal receptacle for the deposit of oily and/or dirty waste, including 
greasy cloths. It had briefed its employees that all such waste was to be deposited in the 
metal receptacle and that it was to be removed from the premises overnight. AS said it 
was unaware of any non-compliance with this instruction and suspects that, regrettably, 
the only instance of non-compliance was on the day of the fire.
It said its employees have received all necessary training to qualify them to undertake 
hot work and welding safely.
Its practice and procedures included requiring a second employee to be watching over 
the employee who was performing the welding. This requirement was being adhered to 
but it said, unfortunately, it appears that at two potentially crucial moments Employee B 
who was watching Employee A welding, missed the fact that sparks had landed on the 
rag and had been put out by Employee A. It was Employee B who, unaware of these 
events, then put the rag in the bin across the other side of the workshop.
It believes appropriate practices and procedures had been put in place by the director on 
behalf of the Company, that they fully addressed the risks relating to welding. And it said 
it ensured that its employees were fully trained and aware of those practices/procedures 
and the requirement to comply with them.
It said if, in the event that a court or this Service thought that its procedures fell short of 
compliance with the relevant policy conditions, then it thought it would be entitled to rely 
on the Non-Invalidation Clause to secure cover under the Policy which said:
-cover under the Policy "shall not be invalidated by any act or omission...whereby the 
risk of Damage is increased unknown to or beyond the control of the Insured, 
provided that the Insured immediately they become aware thereof shall give notice to 
the Company and pay an additional premium if required by the Company.
It said that it could not have reasonably known that the policy condition wasnt being 
complied with. It said case law had set out that insurers cant reasonably decline a claim 
where any breach of policy condition was unknown to the insured or beyond its control 
which increases the risk of damage.
NIG still maintained it could rely on the breach of the policys condition precedents. So AS 
referred its complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She acknowledged ASs comments that it had 
a number of practices in place, but she said the policy was specific about what needed to be 
done. And she said she thought NIG had fairly said AS had breached the policys condition 
precedents. So she didnt think NIG had acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
AS disagreed with the investigator and, in summary, said the following:
Theres no irrefutable evidence to show that the rag was the cause of the fire, or that, 
had the employee opened the rag before putting it in the inside bin, it would have been 
smouldering.
All reasonable care was taken by the management of the Company to ensure that its 
employees comply with the policy conditions.
NIG carried out a survey of the premises but didnt raise any issues relating to the fire 
precautions or the bin, being inside the garage and not having a metal lid. And it said the 
surveyor didnt investigate whether there existed a metal receptacle outside the garage 
for oily rags.
It set out that the survey report highlighted the relevant bin had been placed outside at 
the time of the inspection which it said demonstrated this was its normal practices  i.e. 
the failing in this case was an isolated incident.It thinks its unfair its losing out so significantly due to the failings of a junior employee to 
follow specific practices set out by ASs director. And it thinks relying on such a breach 
as NIG is doing is creating an unfair outcome.
It maintained that the non-invalidation clause applied here and was unhappy the 
investigator said it didnt.
Finally it said its not for this Service to formulate legal arguments and responses. It said 
its for this Service to solely consider the individual facts of an individual case and identify 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
As AS didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised ASs complaint in a lot less detail 
than both it and NIG have presented it. NIG and AS has raised a number of points and 
submissions setting out their respective positions. Ive not commented on each and every 
point theyve raised but, instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need 
to think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I assure both NIG and AS, however, that I have read and considered 
everything theyve provided.
I note ASs comments that its not for this Service to create and formulate legal arguments, 
but were to consider everything both parties have presented and decide what we think is fair 
and reasonable. I agree with AS that this Service will always decide and consider what we 
think is fair and reasonable in resolving a dispute. But, as part of considering whats fair and 
reasonable, we will always be minded by what the law says and what a Court might say in 
thinking about specific legal arguments. And in this complaint both parties have submitted 
numerous legal arguments in support of their respective positions. So it is for this Service to, 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable, consider all arguments raised.
NIGs said that AS has breached a number of condition precedents. And it says this means 
theres no cover under the relevant terms of the policy. So, I think the simple questions for 
me to answer here are:
1. Has NIG demonstrated that there are condition precedents that are relevant in the 
consideration of its liability under the terms of the insurance policy; if so,
2. Has NIG demonstrated that AS has breached some or all of these condition precedents 
and this breach was material to increasing its liability towards the claim; and finally
3. Is there any other reason why NIG is not entitled to rely on the condition precedents?
NIG has referred to three condition precedents as I set out above and I think theyre all 
relevant to the claim. I dont think thats in dispute. What is in dispute is whether AS has 
breached them or not. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I should set out that NIG only has to demonstrate that AS has 
breached one condition and that that breach was material to the loss. Ive considered all the 
conditions referred to, but I think the key condition thats most relevant here is the following:
It is a condition precedent to the liability of the Company that all oily and/or dirty waste and greasy cloths be kept in metal receptacles, with metal lids and removed outside the buildings 
every night and completely removed at least once a week.
The simple inescapable fact is that didnt happen. And it also cannot be disputed that this 
was material to the loss. Had the receptacle that ASs employee put the oily rag in question 
into been taken outside and had a metal lid put on top of it, then I think its highly unlikely 
that the extent of damage that occurred would have happened. So Im satisfied that the 
incident would have, either not occurred or NIGs liability would have been significantly less.
I recognise and have considered ASs comment that they think its unfair for NIG to rely on 
this because it has shown this isnt normal practice for AS and its said its normal business 
practice to remove the receptacles. But, critically, the condition precedent doesnt simply 
require AS to have procedures to ensure that the receptacles are kept outside, but it 
specifically requires the receptacles to be kept outside. And it makes it clear that theres no 
cover for material damage where this happens.
Ive considered ASs comments that this additional risk wasnt highlighted to AS when NIG 
carried out a survey, despite other risks being highlighted. But, also by its own admission, 
AS has said it was aware of the condition precedent in question. So, even if NIG needed to 
make this clearer during the survey  which I should say I dont think it needed to  I fail to 
see what difference this would make. And this is what I would need to think about if I thought 
there was a failing in the survey. ASs argument as to why the reliance on the condition 
precedent is unfair is that it was aware of the condition, but the employee mistakenly didnt 
follow business practices, as opposed to the fact it didnt know about the condition. So, by 
ASs submissions, even if everything had been commented on and highlighted in the survey, 
the situation would still be the same. So I cant reasonably say this is a reason why NIG cant 
rely on the breach.
I fully appreciate the severe financial impact this has had on AS. And I recognise this may be 
down to the actions of an employee failing to adequately follow business guidelines. But 
whats happened is precisely the reason why NIG includes such a condition in its policy 
terms. Ive considered ASs comments surrounding this, but I cant reasonably say it was 
unfair for NIG to say AS had breached this condition precedent.
There is no cover for material damage where NIG can show that its entitled to rely upon a 
breach of the above condition precedent. AS has also referred to the following policy term:
This insurance shall not be invalidated by any act or omission or by any alteration, whereby 
the risk of Damage is increased unknown to or beyond the control of the Insured, provided 
that the Insured immediately they become aware thereof shall give notice to the Company 
and pay an additional premium if required by the Company.
NIG says this doesnt apply in this case as it says this refers to ASs requirement to make a 
fair presentation of the risk. I think thats fair. Crucially this term refers to not being allowed to 
invalidate the insurance policy. At no point has NIG declared the policy invalid, but has said 
that a breach of a condition precedent has meant that there isnt cover under the policy 
section. I dont think a reasonable interpretation of this clause would mean it applies to a 
failure to comply with a policy condition. So, it follows, that I dont think the term means NIG 
cant fairly rely on the condition precedent.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that NIG has fairly demonstrated that AS has breached a condition 
precedent which means that theres no cover for material damage  which is the section on 
the policy AS is seeking to claim under. Im aware that NIG has referred to two other 
condition breaches, but, given I think NIG can fairly rely on the one Ive referred to, I dont 
need to make a finding on the other alleged breaches.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask AS to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman