DRN-3617598
The complaint
Mr D says the advice given and the arrangements made by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd, to switch his money purchase (defined contribution) pension and three 
personal pensions into a Greyfriars Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), to be invested 
through three discretionary fund manager (DFM) firms, and recommending that he also used 
some money from his pot to take an interest in an unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS), was unsuitable.
Mr D is represented by Smooth Commercial Law (SCL).
What happened
Mr D had a long career in banking. He was made redundant in 2012 and had been largely 
living off his severance pay. Hed tried to establish a company, but that hadnt proved 
sustainable. While he was able to do some consultancy work, he and his wife recognised 
they had to review how they were living.
Mr D had several pension pots that hed accumulated over the years. He thought it would 
be useful to consolidate what he had to make things easier to manage. He thought he 
would probably need to start drawing on his funds in the next 5 years. He was worried 
about how his funds were being managed, he said that the approach on one in particular 
was passive. He felt his interests were small in comparison to the overall pots being 
managed by his providers. He wanted more control.
In 2014 Mr D researched the market to find a firm to give him advice about his retirement 
arrangements and options. He selected Wealthmasters on the basis of the reviews he found. 
Between October and November 2014, it gathered information about his objectives, 
circumstances and attitude to risk.
Mr Ds objective was captured in broad terms  to review his existing pension 
arrangements with various providers to prepare for his impending retirement.
A fact-find was completed in November 2014, this recorded the following about Mr Ds 
circumstances:
- He was 61 years old, married and in good health. He had children, but they were 
not financially dependent on him.
- He was self-employed as a consultant, but his income was shown as zero.
- The family home was worth around £900,000. The outstanding mortgage of 
£100,000 was said to be his only liability. Other assets and savings, excluding 
pensions, were recorded as a £25,000 Individual Savings Account (ISA), £5,000 
in shares and £400 in national savings bonds.
The adviser ticked boxes on the fact-find to say that Mr D was a retail client. And that he 
was of high net worth.
A supplementary fact-find was focussed on pension planning. It recorded the following 
about Mr D:
- He was looking to retire at 65.
- He wanted an annual income in retirement of £45,000. And the minimum he 
thought he would need in 2014 terms was £36,000.
- He wanted an annual pension review with Wealthmasters. He didnt want to 
manage the pensions himself  he wanted his adviser to do that. And he thought it 
was essential that his portfolio was rebalanced regularly so that it remained 
aligned with his risk profile.
- He didnt have a strong opinion on reviewing his attitude to risk (ATR) on a 
regular basis. Nor that he should be able to see all his investments on one 
statement. 
- Access to a large and unrestricted number of funds wasnt a priority, nor was 
the automatic adjustment of his investments according to market conditions.
- He was said to want to exercise a large choice over his investment strategy. And 
he didnt anticipate the need for specialist investments.
Wealthmasters produced a suitability report for Mr D dated 22 December 2014. It provides 
a few more bits of information about his circumstances and how they were fluid in certain 
respects. It said:
In summary, you are currently tendering for three [consultancy] contracts, this will impact 
on your future income requirements. You may also delay selling your home and down 
scaling, which would mean you would need to begin drawing benefits from your pension 
sooner.
Therefore flexibility is paramount for you. You will be making further decisions in January 
2015. As you do not currently require income, my recommendations have been produced 
on a growth basis, however should your circumstances change, and you require income, I 
have made recommendations that allow for flexibility to adapt to your changing needs.
Five of Mr Ds pensions were in the scope of Wealthmasters advice. Information about 
these is limited because its failed to share the detailed information it wouldve required at 
the time it gave advice to him in order to understand the different terms, guarantees, 
protections, penalties and investment funds and strategies associated with each plan.
From the suitability report it produced for Mr D, I can see one of the plans was a money 
purchase, defined contribution (DC) occupational pension scheme. It was said to have a 
transfer value in December 2014 of around £381,000. There were three personal 
pension plans  these had a total transfer value at the same date of around £392,000.
The fifth pension under consideration by Wealthmasters was a Section 32 buy-out bond, 
which wouldve had certain protections and guarantees  at the time this had a transfer 
value of about £103,000. However, it recommended this pension wasnt switched 
because the fund was insufficient to meet the guaranteed minimum pension the provider 
was required to pay.
So, Wealthmasters ended up recommending that Mr D should switch four of his pensions 
with a transfer value at the time (before fees) of around £773,000. It said he should place 
the funds into a Greyfriars SIPP. This would have a retirement horizon of 65 and would 
provide him with a drawdown facility.Wealthmasters also recommended that he invest £690,000 of his pot with three separate 
DFMs, into portfolios aligned with his assessed ATR, which was said to be moderately 
cautious. It said he should also invest £50,000 into a non-correlated asset backed 
investment. With the balance of his funds being held on deposit in his SIPP to cover fees 
and running costs.
Mr D accepted Wealthmasters recommendations and the switch of his pensions went 
ahead. On 3 March 2015 it confirmed its recommendations had been implemented.
On 7 July 2020, SCL raised several concerns with Wealthmasters about the switch of Mr 
Ds pensions. It wasnt satisfied that it had adhered to the appropriate regulations in 
providing him with advice. And it considered its recommendations to invest in the Dolphin 
Trust were inappropriate. It thought he should be returned to the position hed have been in 
had he remained with his former pension plans.
I cant see that Wealthmasters provided Mr D or his representative with a final response to 
his complaint. Its told this Service it considered him to be a high net worth individual and a 
sophisticated investor. Its highlighted Mr Ds professional background. It said its 
investment recommendations were in line with what was agreed with him about his ATR, 
which was dynamic over the period it was advising him.
The Investigator reviewed Mr Ds complaint and upheld it. She didnt think there were 
sufficiently strong grounds for recommending the switch of his pensions. She noted the 
significantly higher costs associated with the SIPP and DFM arrangements. And that 
given his attitude to risk, it was never likely hed achieve the sort of growth he noted that 
he wanted.
Wealthmasters said it fundamentally disagreed with the Investigator. It reiterated that Mr D 
was a high net worth client and that his investments were consistent with his ATR.
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ds complaint has been passed 
to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. As neither party 
has provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart from my initial 
findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
I note this Service hasnt been provided with a copy of a final response from Wealthmasters 
to Mr Ds complaint. It hasnt provided any information about the four pensions it 
recommended he should switch in 2014, despite repeated requests. And although it said it 
fundamentally disagreed with the Investigators view and would provide further information 
for us to consider, nothing has been forthcoming. So, its failed to engage effectively with 
certain aspects of this case.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.I should also make clear the scope of this decision. The complaint SCL brought on Mr Ds 
behalf focussed on the switch of four of his pensions effected in 2015 into a Greyfriars SIPP, 
as well as certain investments he was advised to make into the Dolphin Trust with a portion 
of those proceeds. Ive taken all these matters together.
Ive not considered later advice Wealthmasters provided to Mr D, for example in 2018 about 
transferring a defined benefit pension he held into a Royal London personal pension. 
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ds case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Wealthmasters for Mr D. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Wealthmasters. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch? Each case is 
different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Ds best interests to make the advice suitable. 
And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his former pensions 
and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Further, when considering the use of a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement, 
the regulator has made clear that amongst other matters, firms need to take into account 
issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs costs of the arrangement were explained 
to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the 
end. They were recommending DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that meant 
looking under the bonnet.
How would the DFM invest this investors funds. Did the adviser obtain a current breakdown 
of assets in any proposed model portfolio, and the DFMs guidelines as to how it manages 
those assets? How did the adviser ensure that its attitude to risk scale mapped appropriately across to the DFMs? And if the DFMs mandate wasnt sufficiently limited, did it agree 
appropriate restrictions on what it was and wasnt allowed to invest in?
If there was no specific agreement between the adviser and the DFM, how could it be sure 
that the DFM had accepted responsibility for risk-mapping the advisers score to its 
portfolios?
What instructions did the adviser give the DFM on the attitude to risk or model portfolio to 
use? Did the adviser effectively give the fund manager freedom to do as it thought 
appropriate? If this has happened the adviser will have a responsibility for what 
subsequently happened  particularly given their obligations to act in the clients best 
interests.
Was the DFMs initial asset selection broadly consistent with its mandate? What due 
diligence did the adviser carry out at the beginning? Did the DFM fail to get the asset 
allocation right from the outset, or did things gradually wander off course?
Did Wealthmasters meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr D?
There are several documents relating to Wealthmasters transaction with Mr D that are 
important to my consideration, these include the fact-finds, risk appetite assessments, the 
investment proposals and the suitability report.
I dont think Wealthmasters met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why. 
Ive already set out what we know about Mr Ds objectives, circumstances and ATR in some 
detail. With this in mind, I think there are a number of problems with the advice 
Wealthmasters gave Mr D.
At a basic level, I cant see Wealthmasters delivered a clear comparison of his previous 
arrangements with those being recommended. I cant see evidence of modelling carried out 
by it which shows how the recommendations it made in 2014, came together to deliver his 
income requirements in retirement. I think this analysis wouldve been important to Mr D 
being able to take an informed decision about what to do with his DC and personal pensions. 
Wealthmasters was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr 
D about what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up 
over many years are to provide for a retirement income.
Wealthmasters recommended Mr D switch four of his pensions into a Greyfriars SIPP, with 
three DFM firms overseeing the bulk of his funds, and to take an interest in Dolphin Trust. 
There are a number of problems with its advice.
Charges
Wealthmasters charged Mr D 2% of the transfer value of his funds for its initial advice. That 
was estimated in the suitability report as over £15,000.
Wealthmasters noted that the charges under the arrangements it had recommended would 
be higher, but there was a lack of clarity about this. We do know it thought the impact of the 
SIPP and DFM portfolio would require Mr Ds funds to grow by an additional 1.71% a year 
simply to break even with his former arrangements.
But its not clear whether Wealthmasters figures included all the DFM charges (from each of 
the three firms plus what were called underlying costs). And it excluded its own ongoing service charges. So the rate of return his portfolios needed to generate to stand still was 
even higher.
Wealthmasters didnt set out in its suitability report any analysis showing the performance of 
Mr Ds existing personal pensions. It also failed to provide any commentary about the 
portfolios it was recommending for him. I think this is a weakness. Although past 
performance doesnt provide any guarantee it wouldve helped to have contextualised what 
was being recommended.
What was the prospect of meeting or exceeding the performance of his existing plans? After 
all, one of his priorities was said to be capital growth. It wasnt for Mr D to be the judge of the 
prospects for investment returns under Wealthmasters management  it needed to provide 
its analysis.
Wealthmasters hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr D to be 
better off as a result of its recommendations, given the fees and charges he was incurring 
and the nature of the investment strategy it was recommending, which I will turn to.
Existing benefits
I think Wealthmasters implied in its suitability report that Mr D didnt lose any important 
benefits in the switch without good reason. That would include the loss of any guaranteed 
annuity rate, protected tax-free lump sum provisions or the right to take benefits early.
It appears such research was undertaken. I say this because Wealthmasters file does refer 
to a pension report from September 2014. It also makes reference in the suitability report to 
certain matters changing since its initial work, for example the subsequent imposition by one 
of his pension providers of a market value reduction of £1,000 on his transfer value.
Wealthmasters hasnt provided the information it wouldve been given by his former pension 
providers to analyse his then existing terms, benefits, guarantees and protections. It needed 
to understand this information prior to making its recommendations. Its puzzling why it has 
failed to share the details with this Service. And so, I dont have full assurance on this 
matter.
Risk
An ATR questionnaire was completed on 25 November 2014. It suggested Mr D had a 
moderately cautious attitude to risk. This was defined in the following terms:
The Moderately Cautious investor is sensitive to short-term losses. A Moderately Cautious 
investor's aversion to losses could compel them to shift into a more stable investment if 
significant short-term losses occur. Analysing the risk-return choices available, a Moderately 
Cautious investor is usually willing to accept somewhat lower returns in order to assure 
greater safety of his or her investment.
Id start by noting that because of the absence of information about the holdings in Mr Ds 
former plans, I dont know whether his then existing investments were a good match for his 
risk appetite in 2014/15 or not. So, I cant say whether action was required, and if it was what 
possibilities existed with his former providers.
I think the assessment Wealthmasters conducted of Mr Ds risk appetite was a reasonable 
starting point. Mr D wasnt a novice in investment matters and he knew that to gain better 
returns he would have to take risk. On the other hand, theres nothing to suggest he was particularly knowledgeable about investment and pension matters. Of course, thats why he 
sought professional advice.
Nevertheless, from his responses to the questionnaire, it seems clear his assessed ATR was 
about right. Wealthmasters recorded that Mr D wanted to spread his pension investments in 
the following way:
- Low risk investments: 30%
- Below average risk investments: 30%
- Average risk investments: 30%
- Above average risk investments: 10%
I can see Wealthmasters said the following in its suitability report:
With reference to your attitude to risk, you understand in order to produce a Moderately 
Cautious risk portfolio, this involves recommending investments across the whole spectrum 
of risk from low to high, you have confirmed that you are happy for me to make 
recommendations that may be of higher risk. My recommendation includes £50,000 (6.5%) 
into an asset backed investment which you understand carries an adventurous attitude to 
risk profile.
And Mr D indicated he was prepared to allocate 5% of his pension to an asset-backed 
investment. He noted the following about his investment objective:
I intend to retire during the next 3/5 years and therefore am averse to too much risk. 
However, I appreciate that to grow my funds I need to take some risk. Target return of 5- 
10% (excluding inflation).
I wouldve expected Wealthmasters to have tackled head on any inconsistencies and 
tensions in the ATR assessment. These often arise, and the value of the tools used to derive 
scores is that they provide a framework for teasing out these conflicts to understand what 
clients really want most.
For example, it was unlikely Mr D would be able to achieve the returns he wanted to target 
with a moderately cautious outlook. This was especially the case given the additional 
charges of the new arrangement which acted as a drag on his funds. Ive not seen any 
evidence that Wealthmasters effectively gripped these issues with him and helped to 
establish realistic expectations.
Turning to how the DFMs interpreted the mandate they received from Wealthmasters. Ive 
reviewed the proposals from Brooks MacDonald (BM), Brewin Dolphin (BD) and Sanlam (S) 
about how each would invest the £230,000 that it would be allocated from Mr Ds funds. 
BM identified a strategy based around capital growth; and investment horizon of seven years 
and a low to medium risk appetite. It gave a breakdown of how Mr Ds funds would be 
invested across different asset classes  this included 49% in equities; 23% in fixed interest; 
12% in structured returns; 9% in alternatives (including hedge funds); and 6% in property. It 
provided an analysis of how the assets it was selecting broke down in terms of risk exposure 
as follows: low risk 25%; 18% low to medium; 45% medium and 12% medium to high.
BDs proposal said it would follow a cautious with risk strategy over a ten year investment 
horizon. But it was investing around 60% of Mr Ds funds in equities, 9% in property and 
14% in alternatives. Around 27% was invested in fixed income funds.Ss proposal was to adopt a moderate risk profile over five-seven years. It would place his 
pension funds in the following manner: 48% global equities; 9% property; 14% alternatives; 
and 27% global fixed income.
Im also mindful Mr D had accepted a recommendation to invest £60,000 into the Dolphin 
Trust (around 8% of his pension funds), which was classified as being an adventurous risk 
exposure.
Taken together I think the investments being proposed were in excess of Mr Ds ATR. 
Wealthmasters provided the mandate to the DFMs, it had a responsibility to have oversight 
and ensure they were delivering appropriate proposals. It was the only expert party with a 
view across his whole pension portfolio. And it was being paid to deliver such an ongoing 
service.
Another important aspect of assessing a clients risk outlook is to consider their capacity for 
loss. Wealthmasters did so for Mr D and concluded in the following terms: 
Your overall wealth is such that losing some of this investment will not affect your standard 
of living and therefore I am comfortable that your agreed risk profile and my recommendation 
is aligned with your circumstances and indeed capacity for loss.
I find this statement too general, ambiguous and unhelpful. What is the scale of loss that Mr 
D and his wife could afford to take without any impact on their standard of living in 
retirement? While he had a good level of pension provision, he was investing the bulk of this 
through Wealthmasters proposal.
Mr D had significant equity in his home, but his plans for downsizing were far from certain, 
both in terms of timing and what such a move might yield. And although he had other 
savings these were not substantial.
I do think Mr D and his wife had some capacity for loss, but I find Wealthmasters failed to 
effectively quantify this to help guide his decision making.
I dont find it surprising that customers ATR evolves over time. This will usually relate to their 
circumstances, including their life stages. Wealthmasters conducted regular ATR 
assessments with Mr D and these suggested he was becoming less cautious with his 
pension funds:
- November 2014  moderately cautious.
- February 2017  an analysis of how he would like his funds balanced indicated 10% 
cautious, 5% moderately cautious, 70% moderate and 10% adventurous. He was 
also said to be happy with 15% of his funds being asset backed.
- February 2018  moderately adventurous.
- February 2019  moderate.
Id observe Mr Ds assessed ATR appears to have been on an upward drift. But theres little 
information about what drove this. And given this was a period when he was approaching 
and then entering retirement, its arguable this was a time when he should be reducing his 
exposure, or at least maintaining his initial stance.
Theres little by way of explanation for this evolution of Mr Ds ATR on file. Nor the volatility 
of the assessments over a short period of time. I find the commentary he provided alongside 
the February 2017 assessment to be instructive. He said his investment objective was:To have a relatively safe and sustainable portfolio that provides a level of pension income 
commensurate with our lifestyle £40,000 per annum.
Theres a dissonance between the later assessments of Mr Ds ATR and his recorded 
sentiment. I also find it odd theres no analysis by Wealthmasters of the cashflow he couldve 
generated from his pension assets over time. This was a weakness from its initial advice in 
2014. Im unsighted, as Mr D appears to have been, about what if any additional risk he 
needed to take on to deliver his retirement objectives.
Turning to Wealthmasters advice to Mr D for him to invest in Dolphin Trust. It will be aware 
that in June 2013 the FCA published an alert notifying firms it was to ban the promotion of 
UCIS to the vast majority of retail investors in the UK. The alert stated that the promotion of 
these riskier and complex fund structures would generally be restricted to sophisticated 
investors and high net worth individuals, for whom those products were more likely to be 
suitable.
And on 28 April 2014 the FCA published another alert which stated it believed:
pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to hold non-mainstream propositions are 
unlikely to be suitable options for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms operating in this 
market need to be particularly careful to ensure their advice is suitable.
In the cases we have seen, customers existing arrangements were invariably traditional 
pension plans invested in mainstream funds or final salary schemes, with the customer 
generally having no experience of non-mainstream propositions and many having very 
limited experience of standard investments.
The new arrangements firms proposed were to transfer or switch the customers pension 
funds to a SIPP, with a view to investment in non-mainstream propositions, which were 
typically unregulated, high risk and highly illiquid investments. Some examples of these 
investments are overseas property developments, store pods and forestry. Such transfers or 
switches are unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail customers.
Wealthmasters arranged two investments in Dolphin Trust for Mr D. I can see he signed 
papers on 14 April 2015 for a loan note worth £60,000. And on 16 June 2016 he agreed to 
inject a further £100,000 into what it refers to as a corporate bond. These investments alone, 
which were high risk, accounted for over 20% of his pension funds.
Leaving aside that Wealthmasters recommendation on Dolphin werent in accordance with 
Mr Ds ATR, it has argued separately that he was high net worth client and a sophisticated 
client. Presumably it does so because this wouldve allowed the Dolphin Trust proposal to 
have been promoted to him within the rules.
But there are problems for Wealthmasters here. Although Mr D was given a certificate to 
sign that he was a high net worth individual, it shouldve known from the fact-find it had 
completed that this was not the case.
COBS 4.12.6R, defines a high net worth investor as having during the 12 months 
immediately preceding the certificate an annual income of £100,000. Mr Ds income was 
recorded as zero. And while it seems infact he was a self-employed consultant; his earnings 
were nowhere near this figure. Alternatively he could have net assets of £250,000 (excluding 
the domestic home, pensions and life assurance policies). Again this wasnt the case.
Mr D wasnt a high net worth individual as defined by regulations at the relevant time. And 
neither was he a self-certified sophisticated investor as set out in COBS 4.12.8. Theres no 
signed certificate from him. And theres no evidence he wouldve met the criteria for being classified as such. While hed had a career in the banking sector theres no evidence to 
show he was an investment or pensions specialist.
Ongoing fund management
My understanding is that Mr D hadnt used a DFM arrangement previously. The concept was 
introduced by Wealthmasters. There was a duty of care on it to make sure what it was 
recommending was appropriate for him.
Mr D had limited investment experience, but he wasnt a sophisticated investor. He had a 
good personal pension pot which hed built up over several years. Wealthmasters hasnt 
done enough to demonstrate that the recommendations it made to Mr D to take on three 
DFMs, was suitable.
Rather the arrangement it put in place was over-engineered, complicated, relatively 
expensive and it wasnt clear it was likely to be able to produce a better return than his 
previous pensions.
Overall, Wealthmasters hasnt done enough to demonstrate that the switch of Mr Ds four 
pensions into a Greyfriars SIPP, using three separate DFM firms and taking a significant 
exposure to UCIS vehicles was clearly in his best interests.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ds case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd 
should pay Mr D the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays Mr D the 
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Wealthmasters had provided suitable advice, based on the information available to me, I 
dont think Mr D wouldve switched his pensions into a Greyfriars SIPP, nor taken on the 
three DFM facilities which invested his funds outside of his assessed ATR. And I dont think 
hed have invested in the Dolphin Trust proposal. I think its more likely than not his plans 
wouldve remained invested with the same providers and asset mix.
So, subject to Mr D cooperating with Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to provide 
any information it requires to assess his loss fairly, it needs to provide redress to him using 
the following framework.1.Calculate a notional loss Mr D has suffered as a result of making the switch of his four 
pensions
Wealthmasters should obtain the notional value of Mr Ds previous pensions, as at the date 
of calculation. So, as if they hadnt been switched in the first place. It will need to obtain the 
value of the plans as previously invested.
If a previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Wealthmasters will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using a benchmark. For half the 
investment the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half the 
average rate from fixed rate bonds.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total 
return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK 
equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between these measures, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put him into that position. It doesnt mean he wouldve 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
Wealthmasters should then find the current value of his SIPP, including investments and any 
cash held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
My understanding is that Mr D remains with the same provider. And that the Dolphin Trust 
investments have been written down and are illiquid. He started to take benefits from his 
SIPP around 2017. Im not aware if he made further contributions to it. After confirming the 
detailed position, then the value Wealthmasters obtains or the calculations it makes should 
assume these adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Ds 
former pensions and the current value of his SIPP will be his basic financial loss that 
Wealthmasters needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mr Ds SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. If, at 
the date of settlement, some investments are illiquid (meaning they cant be readily sold on 
the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment.
So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Wealthmasters should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Wealthmasters is unable to purchase the residual investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr D provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Wealthmasters will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Ds pension pot so the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax. 
If compensation is paid into Mr Ds SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension schemes.
If paying compensation into Mr Ds SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Wealthmasters takes on his investments, then it 
should pay him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr D hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. If Mr D is a higher rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would 
reduce the amount payable accordingly.
Provision for an award of interest
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which this Service informs it that Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than 
this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wealthmasters considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr D how 
much has been taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Award for distress and inconvenience
In addition, Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should pay Mr D £300 to recognise 
the inconvenience its failings have caused him.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint, and I require 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman