DRN-3234290
The complaint
Miss D complains that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined her home insurance claim 
for accidental damage to her septic tank and soakaway.
Miss D is represented by a loss assessor and drainage specialist, who Ill refer to as C.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss D noticed she had untreated effluent in her garden. She contacted C, 
who submitted a claim to HDI on her behalf. 
Cs report explained that upon emptying the septic tank, t-pieces were broken and laying at 
the bottom. As a result, solids were entering the discharge and the soakaway was blocked. 
Due to the damaged septic tank and the contaminated soakaway, C recommended a new 
sewage treatment plant and drainage field be installed. Cs report included photos of the 
pipework, noting it was fractured. C concluded the damage to the pipework must have 
occurred suddenly from an external force.
HDIs loss adjuster appointed its own drainage specialist, who Ill refer to as R. R agreed 
the soakaway had failed due to the septic tanks displaced pipework. R said there hadnt 
been any ground movement, so the damage to the pipework had either been caused by 
wear and tear, or by accident during desludging.
The loss adjuster said there was no evidence the damage to the pipework had been caused 
by external means, and it declined the claim on the basis the damage had been caused by 
wear and tear. The loss adjuster noted the septic tank had been in place for 50-60 years.
C brought a complaint to our service on behalf of Miss D. One of our investigators thought 
the claim had been fairly declined. Because C disagreed, Miss Ds complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Miss D has cover for accidental damage to buildings and underground service pipes. Whilst 
the policy definition for buildings includes septic tanks, it doesnt include soakaways, and 
I havent seen anything that leads me to believe the soakaway should be considered a 
service pipe. 
So, Im satisfied that whilst Miss D has accidental damage cover for her septic tank, she has 
no such cover for her soakaway. Whether or not the soakaway should be replaced by HDI 
as part of the insured remedial work is another matter. But first, I would need to be 
persuaded that the septic tank has suffered accidental damage.
The policy defines accidental damage as unexpected and unintended damage caused by 
sudden and external means.
In the first instance, the onus is on Miss D to show, on balance, an insured event occurred. If 
Miss D can show the damage was likely caused by an insured event, the onus switches to 
HDI to show, on balance, a policy exclusion applies.
In my view, and based on the arguments made, there are only two potential insured events 
that could have caused the damage: accidental damage caused by ground movement, or 
accidental damage caused during a service.
R didnt observe any ground movement. C has questioned what tests were undertaken by R, 
to allow it to reach that conclusion. However, the onus isnt on HDI to investigate potential 
ground movement if theres no sign thats the cause. Notably, C hasnt identified ground 
movement as the cause either. Given that no evidence of ground movement has been 
presented by any of the appointed experts, Im not persuaded the septic tank was 
accidentally damaged in such a way.
The last service before the claim was reported in February 2021, was April 2020. I accept 
that, potentially, the pipework could have been damaged accidentally during the service. 
However, theres a nine-month gap between the service and the claim.
I agree with the findings of our investigator. Had the pipework been accidentally damaged in 
April 2020, on balance, I consider it likely that Miss D would have seen effluent in her garden 
sooner. A month after C had emptied the septic tank for its investigations, it notified the loss 
adjuster that sewage was appearing in the garden again and starting to smell. C suggested 
the tank be emptied every 1-2 weeks. Given thats the case, I would reasonably expect the 
issue to have become apparent before February 2021, given the septic tank hadnt been 
emptied since the April 2020 service. 
I accept its likely that the problem would have taken a while to surface after the septic tanks 
pipework had failed. However, nine months is a relatively significant period. C hasnt offered 
an explanation for why, if the pipework was damaged in April 2020, the effluent took so long 
to rise to the surface. Instead, Miss D now says she noticed a slight puddle in her childrens 
play area around July or August 2020, but she thought it was a combination of high rainfall 
and a trough that had been emptied. She says she expected the water to drain away, and 
she left it until she realised the problem couldnt be ignored.
On balance, I dont find Miss Ds testimony persuasive. I find it unusual that her recollections 
have only been provided at a late stage, in response to our investigators findings. Given the 
importance of when the problem was first noticed, I would expect such recollections to have 
previously been shared with C and HDI. Furthermore, the problem is surfacing in Miss Ds 
childrens play area, and I dont consider it likely that she would have left the issue of foul 
water for 5-6 months. 
So, Im not persuaded the circumstances and information presented show the pipework was, 
on balance, accidentally damaged in April 2020.I appreciate the points C has made about clay pipework not breaking in such a way without 
some external force. However, HDI doesnt need to show the pipework failed due to wear 
and tear in the first instance. First, Miss D must show theres been an insured event. As 
explained above, Im not persuaded shes done that. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D, and C, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman