DRN-1591452
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited, acting in its capacity as credit 
broker, not delivering a deal it had agreed.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W visited Arnold Clark and discussed the terms of an agreement to acquire a new 
car financed in part by a personal contract purchase (PCP). The order form set out 
the details of the proposal and this was signed by both Mr W and Arnold Clark on 11 
October 2019. I understand why Mr W believed the agreement had been made at 
that point and so wasnt expecting any change. However, Arnold Clark were acting 
as a credit broker and so any proposal would be subject to the finance being agreed. 
The order form says under the price section Manufacturer finance scheme. Your 
sales executive will provide full financial product and payment term details. The 
terms of the document also say that it provides a typical explanation of the finance 
product being proposed and that this can change. It further says that any change will 
be notified before entering into a finance agreement. Mr W has said he was called on 
the evening of 11 October to say that the deal had changed. I can understand why 
this was upsetting for Mr W but as there had been a change in the terms identified, I 
find that Arnold Clark acted correctly by informing Mr W of this as soon as it became 
known.
The finance agreement wasnt entered into. Mr Ws complaint is that Arnold Clark 
didnt treat his fairly when acting as credit broker. Arnold Clark said in its final 
response letter that the issue with the deal arose due to the terms offered by the 
finance company changing (that is a finance contribution of £1,300 no longer being 
available). Mr W has said that the contribution wasnt brought to his attention as part 
of the initial discussions and that he has two contracts, one saying the contribution is 
from the finance company and the other saying it is from the franchise. I note these 
comments but given the contribution is noted on both documents Mr W has referred 
to I think it reasonable to accept that he should have been aware of this. Regarding 
the difference of where the contribution was coming from I note the order form which 
notes the contribution as being form the finance company is the document that has 
been signed. 
Arnold Clark has explained that the information about the contribution was taken from 
the finance providers website and was out of date. Mr W has said that he looked into 
this issue and found that there wasnt a deal available in which the finance company 
would contribute £1,300. He thought this meant that the contribution was from the 
franchise. However, I think, based on the information provided, it is more likely that 
Arnold Clark incorrectly included the contribution, as it has explained, and that this 
wasnt available at the time of the deal being proposed, hence Mr W couldnt find 
evidence of it. This meant the order form was completed based on an incorrect 
inclusion of a contribution which Arnold Clark then realised and informed Mr W about.
I understand that Mr W wants the deal set out on the order form honoured. However, 
given the order form states it is subject to change based on the finance being agreed 
and this stage never happened, I do not find I can say that Arnold Clark is required to 
honour the order form deal. I also note that even when a misrepresentation is 
accepted to have occurred we wouldnt require the business to carry out the actions 
as if the misrepresentation had been true. As I accept, on balance, the finance 
contribution recorded was no longer available, I wouldnt require Arnold Clark to 
cover this cost.
I understand how frustrating this process has been. It appears that following the 
identification of the issue with the contribution there were further issues. Arnold Clark 
suggested an alternative enhanced deal was offered, Mr W says this wasnt the case 
and instead he was asked to pay the difference and following this offers that had 
been made in terms of additional extras were withdrawn. I do not have any further 
evidence of the discussions that happened at this time but based on Mr Ws 
comments I can understand how upsetting this must have been. 
So, while it does appear that Mr W might not have been provided with the service he 
should have been by Arnold Clark, having considered Arnold Clarks role as credit 
broker, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that it is required to do anything in 
resolution on this complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr W wants but for the reasons set out above, I do not 
find that I have enough to say that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Arnold Clark Automobiles 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman