DRN-3028960
compliant
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card, in 2005. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her PPI with the 
card.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover) arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators looked into the case and said they didnt think we should uphold the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has nevertheless made an offer to 
Mrs C as if it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost - in relation 
to the commission element - was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. Ive also 
considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission mentioned above. Ive seen 
that Halifax has made an offer in respect this, and I too think the offer to refund some of the 
cost to compensate for the commission element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI if she 
didnt want to, however, she chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen the original 
credit agreement which she signed. I note the yes option to have PPI with the new card 
was selected with an x. In my view, this was clear enough and probably selected on the 
form after a discussion about what Mrs C wanted to do. I also think the PPI costs would 
have shown up on her monthly credit card statements. If she hadnt agreed to buy the 
PPI, or had somehow misunderstood the form, I think shed have been prompted to ask 
what the charges were for.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs C as part of an advised sale, so it had to check 
that it was right for her. In my view, the evidence about Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For 
example, she was eligible for the cover and it could have paid 10% of her monthly 
balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. Ive considered all this against her 
likely job-related benefits and other means she may have had, which the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to. Overall, I think the policy was suitable for her.
There was nothing about Mrs Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Her representative said she had some pre-existing medical 
conditions that would have affected her ability to successfully claim. But I note these 
were some 25 and 15 years respectively, before the PPI sale. I was shown nothing 
suggestion they would have either affected Mrs Cs ability to make claims or changed 
her mind about whether the PPI was right for her.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it could have been, but as Ive said, the evidence shows she chose to take it out and 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt wrong for Mrs C as Ive mentioned above, or 
too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she 
was likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for her, so it seems 
like it would have been useful if something went wrong. I therefore dont think Mrs C 
would have declined the policy even if Halifax had done a better job at explaining things.
While the policy contained certain limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Cs own circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite these limitations or exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for her. 
Whilst having no doubt Mrs C herself genuinely feels now that the policy was mis-sold, Im 
afraid I found some of the information provided via Mrs Cs representative to be somewhat 
conflicting. We were told, for example, she had substantial savings in place but also that 
money was tight for her. Overall, I think that Mrs C would have still taken out PPI, even if 
Halifax didnt do everything right or provide enough details about the policy rules. I think the 
policy provided a useful benefit for her. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely 
she thought she was getting at the point of sale and a demands and needs exercise 
appears to have been carried out to test its suitability for her. The evidence does tend to 
show it was something she wanted to have and it was suitable for her.
Mrs Cs representative has also raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
However, Mrs Cs representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of her individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things carefully and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular 
case. But the points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Cs representative has made a number of points about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they said Mrs C should get back all the money she 
paid for the policy because Halifax failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. 
Because they say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that 
Mrs C wouldnt have taken out the policy had she known about the level of commission. Her 
representative says she should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mrs Cs PPI was less 
than half of what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Cs case was 
less than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules 
about compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded that the non-disclosure of 
commission could lead to an unfair relationshipSo, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs C about the commission levels in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mrs C unfairly in this context. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mrs C back all the commission she paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mrs C some of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my final decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set out 
above, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Cs complaint or make any award in her 
favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. It 
should therefore now make arrangements to pay her, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman