DRN-3694934
The complaint
Mr C complains Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited (Jupiter) unfairly delayed the proceeds 
of sale from his Jupiter Global Sustainable Equities Fund. 
What happened
On 17 September 2021, Mr C invested in the Jupiter Global Sustainable Equities Fund.
A week later, Mr C topped up his investment.
On 6 October 2021, Mr C informed Jupiter he wished to encash his investment. His 
instructions were processed and ordinarily the funds would have been available on 11 
October 2021. The process was delayed resulting in the proceeds not being released until 
29 October 2021.
Jupiter explained this was because it was carrying out its standard checks when receiving a 
request to release funds. Normally this process would take around 4 days but because of an 
error whereby the team mistakenly thought further documentation was being presented by 
Mr C there was a delay of around two weeks before the funds were released.
Jupiter acknowledged the delay and offered Mr C £100 by way of compensation.
Mr C remained unhappy. He has contacted Jupiter a number of times to ascertain the 
reason for the delay and he wasnt presented with a reasonable explanation and so he 
brought his complaint to this service. Mr C explained that he was worried his money might 
not be safe, and he was unhappy with the attitude of Jupiters staff when he asked questions 
about this.
An investigator looked into things for Mr C. She understood Mr Cs frustration but felt 
Jupiters actions were the result of its objective to keep his money safe. As Jupiter had 
acknowledged there had been a delay within its own processes, she felt the offer of £100 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and didnt ask Jupiter to do 
anything further.
Mr C disagreed. He feels if someone had explained the process to him, he wouldnt have 
worried about whether something fraudulent had occurred. He asked for an ombudsman 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator, Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Jupiter. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. My role here is to see if Jupiter followed the regulations and its own policies and 
procedures fairly and if not what it should do to put matters right.
Systems are used by many financial institutions to ensure proceeds from an account are 
paid out correctly. And its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of 
vigilance.
From what Ive seen I dont think Mr C has any problem with this, what he objects to is being 
kept in the dark so to speak when he enquired about why his encashment was delayed and 
this perversely led to him thinking he may have been defrauded.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration, but I consider that Jupiter was limited in terms of what it 
could tell Mr C whilst it carried out its checks.
Having said that, it also became clear that within Jupiters own process an error had 
occurred. Jupiter had mistakenly thought it was waiting on more information from Mr C whilst 
it carried out its checked. Once it realised this was not the case, the checks were completed, 
and the proceeds issued on 29 October. Jupiter acknowledged its mistake and in recognition 
offered Mr C £100 by way of an apology.
Jupiters error resulted in a delay of around 10 days more than it would normally have taken 
to carry out its usual checks. Im persuaded that Jupiters offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint when taking into account the distress it caused Mr C at this 
time. I acknowledge what Mr C has said about the way in which Jupiters staff communicated 
with him whilst he awaited the proceeds of his investment, but overall, my view is that the 
compensation satisfactorily reflects Jupiters errors when dealing with this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman