DRN-2937719
The complaint
Mr D complains that Alpha Underwriting Limited (Alpha) cancelled his pet insurance policy 
without notifying him.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr D decided to buy pet insurance for his dog. He applied online and chose 
a policy from Alpha. In July 2020 Mr D made a claim as his dog needed treatment by a vet 
and hed incurred fees. Alpha declined the claim because it said Mr Ds policy had been 
cancelled in September 2019 as hed not paid any premiums. Mr D complained. He said 
Alpha had never made him aware his policy had been cancelled or why.
Alpha didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said the direct debit set up to collect his initial 
payment and monthly premium had been cancelled by his bank, and so the policy hadnt 
started. It said it was the responsibility of the policy holder to ensure the premium is paid and 
the insurer has the right not to start the policy if it isnt. Mr D wasnt happy with this response 
and so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Alpha was responsible for setting up the payments on Mr Ds policy 
and ensuring they were collected, and it hadnt done that. She also thought Alpha should 
have notified Mr D when it had cancelled the policy. Alpha had shown her two emails it said 
it had sent Mr D to notify him about the cancellation of his policy. But Mr D said he didnt 
receive those. And our investigator was persuaded that he wasnt aware his policy had been 
cancelled. She thought Alpha should pay Mr D the amount hed claimed for, less a few items 
she didnt think would have been covered, the £90 excess he would have had to have paid 
and the premiums he would have paid had the policy started. She also thought Alpha should 
add 8% interest to that amount and pay him a further £150 for the trouble and upset caused 
by its poor communication.  
Mr D accepted the investigators view but Alpha didnt. It felt it had provided evidence she 
hadnt considered and said she hadnt given it an opportunity to evaluate if the claim would 
have been valid. As Alpha didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
The terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy Alpha sent to Mr D says that Alpha is 
an intermediary that acts for, and on behalf of, the insurer. It says that, as an intermediary, 
its responsible for the administration of the policy and the handling of any claims made. The 
insurer is a separate business and the insurer has told this service that it was Alphas 
responsibility to manage and administrate the direct debit for the policy held. Alpha hasnt 
disputed that and so Im satisfied its responsible for setting up a process of payment for the 
policies it sells. 
After Mr D applied for pet insurance from Alpha in August 2019, it sent him a schedule of 
insurance that said his initial payment would be taken 14 days from the start date of his 
policy, and the premium would be taken on a monthly basis by direct debit. But Alpha has 
said there was a problem with the direct debit and no payments were made. Alpha has 
suggested Mr Ds bank cancelled the direct debit but Ive seen no evidence of that. Indeed, 
Mr Ds bank has told this service it has no evidence of any instruction being received from 
Alpha to set up a direct debit on his account. So, I think its more likely than not that Alpha 
has made a mistake and not set up the direct debit correctly.
When the direct debit didnt work, I think it would be fair to expect Alpha to have notified 
Mr D that his payment hadnt been collected. Alpha says it sent Mr D an email in early 
September 2019 to say there was an issue with the payment and asked him to contact Alpha 
by phone or email. And it says it then sent a second email in late September 2019 to say his 
policy had been cancelled because it hadnt been able to contact him. Mr D says he never 
received those emails. Hes provided screenshots of his inbox to show he received other 
emails sent from the same Alpha email address  but not those ones. Mr D could have 
deleted those emails but I dont think his behaviour or actions are those of someone whos 
been made aware his policy has been cancelled. His version of events has been consistent 
throughout his complaint. He also went to the lengths of putting a detailed claim in to Alpha, 
which doesnt seem like the actions of someone who would have known his policy had been 
cancelled. And hes also shown evidence that when a similar issue arose with another 
insurer more recently, he took action straight away to resolve the matter. 
Our investigator also cast doubt on the email evidence provided by Alpha. She thought the 
two emails were in draft form and not in a format that would have been sent to Mr D. And I 
can see why. Theres no company branding on the emails and they dont say who theyre 
from. The screenshot of the emails also shows the cursor and some text is underlined where 
the software has identified possible grammatical issues. I dont think it would be fair to say 
Alpha notified Mr D that his policy had been cancelled solely on the basis of the screenshots 
its provided. 
Looking at all these issues together, Im not persuaded that Alpha made Mr D aware that the 
direct debit had failed and his policy had been cancelled.
I accept that Mr D had a certain responsibility to check he was making payments to Alpha 
and perhaps he should have noticed that payments werent being made. Mr D has argued 
that theres a lot of activity on his bank account and he has a lot of direct debits, including 
one that refers to a vet. So, he believes it was easy to miss the fact he wasnt paying Alpha. I 
think thats a reasonable argument and, on balance, I think the responsibility on Mr D to 
identify that payments werent being made is outweighed by the responsibility on Alpha to 
set up his payments correctly and notify him when they werent.
In light of the above, Im satisfied that Alpha made a mistake and should take action to put 
things right.
Putting things right
The impact of the mistake made by Alpha is that Mr D wasnt insured when he made a claim to cover the vet fees for his dog. Had Alpha got things right and either set the direct debit up 
correctly or notified Mr D that payments werent being made, he would either have been 
covered by the policy provided by Alpha or been given the opportunity to seek cover 
elsewhere. And if hed decided to do the latter, Im satisfied he would have sought similar 
cover with another business.
Had Mr D been covered by Alpha or with another business, I think its more likely than not 
that most of his claim would have been accepted. His dog had eaten a bag of rat poison and 
Mr D has provided the vets invoice setting out the treatment provided. The total cost of the 
treatment was about £1,200. The policy sold by Alpha says it covers treatment carried out by 
a vet for treating an illness or accidental injury. The policy defines what it means by 
accidental injury and the events described by Mr D seem to match that definition. The policy 
also sets out what is not insured, and that includes any costs for food, vitamins or 
supplements, whether they were prescribed by the vet or not. And so, I think it would be fair 
for Alpha to reimburse Mr D for the cost of the treatment his dog received less any amounts 
he paid for those items. This amounts to £1,022.19. 
If Mr D had pet insurance with Alpha or taken out a similar policy with another business, he 
would have had to have paid an excess of £90 and premiums of £184.80. So, I think these 
amounts should also be deducted from the above figure. This leaves an amount of £747.79. 
Alpha should add 8% interest to that amount for its loss of use  from the date Mr D made 
his claim to the date of settlement.
Its clear from the evidence that Mr Ds been frustrated and upset by the way Alpha has dealt 
with this matter. Not only because he was left with a sizeable bill he thought would be 
covered by his insurance policy, but also because of the way Alpha communicated with him. 
And so, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Alpha to pay Mr D an amount to recognise 
the impact its had. Our investigator thought Alpha should pay £150 to recognise that impact 
and I think that amount seems reasonable in light of the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Alpha Underwriting Limited 
to pay Mr D the following:
A total of £747.79 to reimburse Mr D for the cost of the vet fees he would otherwise 
have been able to claim for. It should add interest to this amount at a rate of 8% 
simple annually from the date of the claim to the date it reimburses him1 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If Alpha Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.