DRN-3683810
The complaint
Mrs K complains because The Original Holloway Friendly Society Limited trading as 
Holloway Friendly (Holloway) avoided her income protection insurance policy and 
requested the return of claim payments made. 
What happened
Mrs K took out an income protection insurance policy in May 2019. The insurance policy was 
provided by Holloway. 
In September 2020, Mrs K made a claim under her policy as she was unable to work. 
Holloway accepted and paid Mrs Ks claim but said it may need to request medical records 
from Mrs Ks GP if her claim continued beyond a certain point.
In December 2020, as Mrs Ks claim was still ongoing, Holloway requested medical records 
from her GP. Holloway received the medical records in March 2021 and, upon reviewing 
these, suspended Mrs Ks claim payments. Holloway said this was because it thought Mrs K 
hadnt told it about a number of medical conditions when she took out the policy, and it 
requested further information from Mrs K. 
Mrs K complained to Holloway, who told her it would never have offered her the policy if 
shed told it about her medical conditions. In May 2021, Holloway said it was therefore 
cancelling Mrs Ks policy from inception, and that Mrs K would need to repay the claim 
payments that had been made to her.  
Unhappy, Mrs K brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened and initially recommended that Mrs Ks complaint should be 
upheld. However, upon reviewing further information provided by Holloway, our investigator 
said he didnt think Holloway had acted unfairly by avoiding Mrs Ks policy and requesting 
the return of the claim payments. 
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been referred to me 
to decide as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about Mrs Ks complaint, Im only considering what Holloway  as 
the provider of this income protection insurance policy  is responsible for. This is the 
decision to avoid Mrs Ks policy and request the return of the claim payments made. Based 
on the information Ive seen, the policy was sold by an independent third party. So, Holloway 
isnt responsible for anything that happened (or didnt happen) when this policy was sold. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules into account when making my decision about Mrs Ks complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA), and Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to apply the principles set
out in CIDRA to Mrs Ks claim. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care
required is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying one. For the
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Holloway originally said it thought Mrs K didnt tell it certain additional information about her 
declared raised blood pressure and didnt declare arthritis in both knees and/or neck pain. 
Holloway now accepts that the information Mrs K provided about her blood pressure was 
correct, and that she didnt have arthritis in both knees. It may have been more helpful if 
Holloway had correctly identified the medical conditions which it thought Mrs K 
misrepresented  and the reason why it wouldnt have offered her any cover  from the 
outset. But Holloways failure to identify this initially doesnt affect its entitlement to rely on 
the remedies set out under CIDRA if there was a misrepresentation by Mrs K for different 
reasons. 
Holloway now says, when taking out the policy in May 2019, Mrs K should have told it about:
ear pain;
neck pain;
osteoarthritis in the right knee;
a stomach infection in January 2019. 
Mrs Ks completed application form for the policy shows she answered no to the following 
questions:
In the last 5 years have you had or suffered from any of the following: 
4a Any eye condition or ear/hearing condition  or any permanent defect of your 
sight or hearing
4b Musculoskeletal 
I. Any back or neck pain to include slipped disc?
II. Any rheumatic, arthritic or muscular complaints, joint pains including shoulder 
pain, gout, repetitive strain injury, carpal tunnel syndrome? 
Im satisfied that these questions are clear and specific in prompting a reasonable consumer 
that Holloway would want to know about any ear conditions and/or neck pain, and about any 
arthritic joints. Ive reviewed Mrs Ks medical records which are available to me. These show repeated 
consultations for ear pain and recurrent ear infections in the five years before the policy was 
taken out, dating back to December 2015. Mrs K was prescribed medication for ear pain and 
ear infections at various times during this period and, in 2017, Mrs K was referred to an ear, 
nose and throat service. At that time, Mrs K was noted as being unable to work due to ear 
pain. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mrs K should reasonably have answered yes 
to question 4a set out above. 
Mrs Ks medical records also show consultations for neck pain in the five years before the 
policy was taken out  in December 2018, January 2017, and October 2016. During both the 
December 2018 and January 2017 consultations, Mrs K also presented with ear pain. But, 
even if I were to accept that these incidences of neck pain were connected to Mrs Ks ear 
pain at the time, Mrs K also had a GP consultation in October 2016 for an independent 
incident of neck pain. So, I think Mrs K should reasonably have answered yes in response 
to question 4b I. outlined above.  
Mrs K had a number of consultations for right knee pain in December 2017 and an x-ray the 
same month confirmed a diagnosis of osteoarthritis. Mrs Ks medical records state that the 
diagnosis was explained to Mrs K. Mrs K subsequently consulted with her GP in March 2018 
and October 2018 for recurrent right knee pain. Based on the available medical evidence, I 
think Mrs K should also reasonably have answered yes to question 4b II. 
In addition, when Mrs K bought the policy, she was also asked:
Other than for the conditions you have already disclosed: 

6c In the last 2 years have you been
i)subject to medical review with a doctor, medical centre or clinic?
ii)prescribed any medication or treatment? 
(You do not need to tell us about common colds, influenza, contraception, pregnancy 
reviews, fertility treatment).
Mrs K answered no to question 6c but her medical records show she was prescribed 
medication for a stomach infection in January 2019, which was within five months of the 
policy being taken out. I think Mrs K should reasonably have answered yes to this question. 
Overall, this means I dont think Mrs K took reasonable care when answering the questions 
she was asked when she bought her policy. 
Im satisfied, based on the detailed explanations provided by Holloway, that if Mrs K had 
answered yes to the questions Ive outlined above, Holloway wouldve applied three 
exclusions to Mrs Ks policy application  one for any conditions related to certain parts of 
the body including the neck, one for ear conditions and one for osteoarthritis. Furthermore, 
because of Mrs Ks consultation and medication for the stomach infection in January 2019, 
Holloway would then have paused Mrs Ks application for the policy until July 2019 (six 
months from January 2019). So, Mrs K wouldnt have been able to complete the purchase of 
the policy in May 2019. 
Instead, Mrs K would have been required to complete a further health declaration in July 
2019, to proceed with the purchase of the policy. And, having considered the content of a supplemental health declaration provided by Holloway, Im satisfied Mrs K would also then 
reasonably need to have told Holloway about a GPs attendance for various symptoms 
which took place in June 2019. 
Based on the combination of Mrs Ks declared medical conditions, the exclusions which 
Holloway would have added to the policy, Mrs Ks GP consultations in 2019 and factors 
including Mrs Ks age, occupation and the type, term, and deferred period of the policy she 
wanted, Holloway wouldnt have provided Mrs K with any cover at all. 
Therefore, Mrs K made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So, Holloway is entitled 
to rely on the relevant remedy. Holloway has accepted that Mrs Ks misrepresentation was 
careless. So, under CIDRA, Holloway is entitled to avoid the policy and refuse all claims  
but must refund the premiums which Mrs K paid. 
Holloway has asked Mrs K to return the claim payments it made to her before it became 
aware of the misrepresentation. Holloway has deducted the premiums Mrs K paid when 
calculating the amount Mrs K must repay and has confirmed that the last premium taken was 
in May 2021  which was the month in which Holloway told Mrs K it was avoiding the policy. 
This, in essence, means that Mrs K is retaining the benefit of the premiums she paid. And, 
as I understand it, Holloway has offered Mrs K a repayment plan. I dont think this is an 
unfair or unreasonable position for Holloway to take in the circumstances. 
Ive taken into account everything which Mrs K has said both in her complaint submissions 
and in response to our investigators opinions, but these points dont change my decision. In 
summary;
Holloways remedy under CIDRA applies regardless of whether Mrs Ks claim under 
the policy was linked or related to her undeclared medical conditions. 
I understand Mrs K feels that Holloway should have checked her medical history 
before selling the policy to her, but thats not how insurance like this works  it was 
up to Mrs K to take reasonable care not to misrepresent her medical history to 
Holloway based on the questions she was asked. I dont think there were any failings 
or maladministration by Holloway in providing Mrs K with cover in May 2019 based 
on the information she provided at the time. 
I dont think Holloway acted unfairly by initially approving Mrs Ks claim without 
reviewing her medical history. Holloway initially approved this claim on a (not 
unreasonable) assumption that the claim may be of limited duration. 
I dont think any delay in receiving the medical records, once requested in December 
2020, was Holloways responsibility, and I dont think there was any excessive or 
unreasonable delay by Hollowing in reviewing the medical records once they were 
received in March 2021.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, and I understand shes in a difficult position financially, but I 
dont think Holloway has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, and I wont be 
directing Holloway to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman