DRN-3214303
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains about the service provided by National Westminster Bank 
Plc trading as Mettle.
What happened
The director of H explains that he contacted NatWest on 2 July 2021 to ask about the 
process for changing the account address. He was unhappy to be asked to go through an 
identification process. And then not to be given clear information about how to complain and 
when he would be contacted by a manager. He says that NatWest were unprofessional and 
arrogant.
NatWest didnt agree. It apologised that it had misinterpreted the initial request from H. But it 
said that it had followed its correct processes. And that it had asked H to refrain from a tone 
that could potentially be offensive to its staff. H had started a separate request to close its 
account and was again unhappy to be asked security questions. NatWest said it had since 
decided to give notice that it was going to be closing the account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he had 
reviewed a transcript of the chat messages between H and NatWest. He considered that 
NatWests communication had been professional and courteous. H had been asked to 
elaborate on its complaint but didnt seem to want to do so. And he couldnt say NatWest 
hadnt dealt with H reasonably. He said that he was looking at what happened up to the date 
of the final response to the complaint on 19 July 2021.
H didnt agree. It said that NatWest had responded to its question awkwardly and this was 
below service standards and its staff should develop soft skills. NatWest should also not ask 
for more information than it needed. H was told that a manager would contact it, but it ought 
to have been told by when and it didnt think that anyone cared about its request. H said that 
it had now gone to another financial business and was satisfied there.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the director of H had his own view about the service that H should receive. 
And also, that dealing with NatWest here by online chat wasnt the same as a direct 
conversation and that there was room for a misunderstanding.
Ive read the transcripts of all the interactions provided. I know H will be disappointed when I 
say that I dont find that NatWest responded unprofessionally or in an arrogant way as H 
alleges. I understand why the director was unhappy to be asked for security information for a 
general query. It seems that the member of staff dealing with him did no more than 
anticipate that H would want to change the address. I dont see that to be a potential breach 
of any data protection requirements as H claims. But this approach clearly wasnt acceptable 
to the director and he asked to make a complaint and to deal with a manager. NatWest 
responded to both of these points and in my view addressed Hs concerns as far as it could. 
And H did make clearly personal comments about members of staff and used an offensive 
word. Members of staff did no more than ask H to refrain from this and continued to try and 
help.
We dont have a role in setting NatWests processes as we arent the regulator. And for the 
reasons Ive given I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman