DRN-3044978
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advisory and customer service hes received from Strategic 
Solutions Financial Services trading as Strategic Solutions Chartered Financial Planners 
(SSFS). 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr M met with an SSFS adviser (the adviser). And in February the adviser 
recommended Mr M transfer his defined benefit Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a 
Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). At the same time, the funds were to be placed with a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) service. A fund manager at the DFM was allocated to 
manage Mr Ms funds on a discretionary fund management basis. On 13 April 2018 
£1,401,135 was credited to Mr Ms SIPP account.
SSFSs initial advice fee was £14,174 which was for the work carried out in respect of the 
transfer advice. Mr M also elected to have SSFSs ongoing service with an annual charge of 
0.35% of the fund value. The cost of the ongoing fee was estimated to be around £4,961 a 
year. Mr M agreed to receive SSFSs Wealth Development ongoing service which included: 
face to face or telephone meetings with an adviser; unlimited access to the adviser by phone 
or email; a review of financial goals and objectives; and reviews of any investments.
On 5 April, Mr M received, at his UK nominated address, a Welcome letter from the DFM. 
Amongst other things, the DFM said in its letter that it was responsible for the investment 
policy and approach of Mr Ms portfolio. It also said it would: accept continuing 
responsibility for the suitability of the investments entrusted to us so long as you promptly 
notify us of any material change to your requirements and objectives.
The DFM recorded Mr Ms attitude to risk as medium low risk. And went on to say that the 
DFM noted there was no investment restrictions. It said its plans for Mr Ms funds were to 
invest into the market gradually over the next nine months. The majority of Mr Ms SIPP 
funds were invested by the DFM over a six-month period. This was in line with a discussion 
the DFM had had with Mr Ms SSFS adviser.
Some other communications with Mr M during the advice period with SSFS included:
2018
In April Mr M told the SSFS adviser he was having problems logging into his DFM 
account. In the same month Mr M confirmed his parents had collected post from his 
UK nominated address and his log in details for the SIPP provider had been sent to 
this address. 
In May Mr M clarified that while SSFS and the DFM had his nominated address in the 
UK for correspondence, it had been agreed his preferred method of contact was by 
either email or by a phone messaging service (SMS). 
In May Mr M acknowledged the SSFS advisers confirmation that £200,000 had been 
invested so far and the adviser had said his (Mr Ms) funds would be invested in 
stages. Mr M raised a number of concerns about not being able to directly monitor 
the performance of his DFM funds due to the log in problems. Mr M was also 
unhappy that the DFM had sent him a letter for a different customer. The SSFS 
adviser apologised for the error and also for the logging in issues with his (Mr Ms) 
DFM account. SSFS offered to waive its fees for one year. 
In May Mr M confirmed to the SSFS adviser that he had received an email from the 
DFM but it had gone to his junk mail. Mr M enquired if there was a cooling off period 
as he was thinking of changing adviser as he was generally unhappy with the way 
things had gone so far. Whilst Mr M noted the SSFS offer to waive its ongoing fees 
for 2018, he also wanted a refund of all the initial fees.
In June 2018, the SSFS adviser confirmed he would not waive the initial fees as 
these were costs incurred for the advice for the transfer of Mr Ms OPS. Mr M 
ultimately accepted SSFSs offer.
In June Mr M confirmed he could now log in to his DFM account.
In October Mr M told the SSFS adviser that he was unhappy with the DFM investing 
his funds so quickly. 
In November the adviser called Mr M for a portfolio review. Amongst other things, 
Mr M said he remained unhappy about the pace at which his funds were invested. 
2019
In March, Mr M told SSFS that he was disappointed with the performance of his 
portfolio and repeated he considered his funds had been invested too quickly.
In April Mr M told the adviser that he wanted to move away from the DFM and 
manage his investments himself. After the adviser warned Mr M against doing this, it 
was agreed that he (Mr M) would use a proportion of his funds of around £200,000 to 
self-invest by setting up a separate account with the DFM (the direct account).
In April Mr M asked SSFS adviser to ask the DFM not to make any more investments 
with the cash held in his SIPP as he had plans for this. He also said that if the fund 
manager was to sell anything, he (Mr M) wanted to be informed.
In July Mr M emailed the adviser and said: I have advised you on a number of calls 
since the beginning of setting up this Direct Account with [the DFM] not to buy 
anything as I have plans. This email followed the DFM making purchases totalling 
£45,000 which Mr M said was against his instructions. 
The adviser responded across several email saying that no new funds had been 
used. The adviser then confirmed he had told the DFM not to carry out any activity on 
Mr Ms account saying that he had previously understood Mr Ms instructions were 
that it was only the remaining cash funds which werent to be invested. Mr M was 
unhappy about this saying he didnt mean there should be no trading across the 
whole account and referred the SSFS adviser back to his email from April. 
The adviser reassured Mr M that the DFM hadnt used any additional funds as there 
was now £250,000 in cash whereas previously there had been £200,000. After 
clarification from Mr M the adviser confirmed the DFM would continue to monitor 
Mr Ms account and where appropriate sell any stock.
In August the adviser wrote to Mr M about the £200,000 transferring from his DFM 
account to his DFM direct account.
During the advice period telephone meetings were also held between the SSFS adviser and 
Mr M. Further between February 2018 and July 2019 there were over 60 SMS messages 
between Mr M and the SSFS which consisted of setting up meetings and also providing 
updates and other information.
Mr M complained to SSFS saying its adviser hadnt followed his instructions. And hadnt 
made sure his investments were made in line with his initial instructions. Mr M said he didnt 
think SSFS had done things as promised including that his investments were made too 
quickly despite an agreement to invest slowly. He said the adviser misunderstood simple 
instructions and in his view, this failure had detrimentally impacted on his portfolios 
performance. Mr M considered various questions remained unanswered. He also thought the level of communication with the adviser wasnt at the level that was agreed at the outset.
SSFS rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said the information it provided to Mr M along with 
documentation provided by the DFM, clearly explained the methodology of a discretionary 
fund management service. And these documents made it clear an investment (fund) 
manager would be making trades on a discretionary basis. 
SSFS said Mr Ms concerns started when he couldnt gain access to his DFM account. And 
many of his concerns were related to the actions of the DFM. Particularly, in terms of how 
quickly his funds were invested - this was a matter for the DFM. SSFS noted that whilst its 
adviser had agreed to waive its ongoing fees this had been done as a gesture of goodwill. It 
didnt think it had provided a service below what it had agreed to provide to Mr M. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She considered the service 
Mr M received was within the agreement standards set by SSFS. She did, however, identify 
one error by SSFS which was it provided the wrong email details to the DFM. The DFM 
confirmed to our service that this had caused problems for about a month in terms of Mr M 
gaining access to his DFM online account. However, our investigator was satisfied SSFSs 
offer to waive its fees for one year, which was due to be almost £5,000 in the first year, was 
sufficient to compensate Mr M for this error.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. He asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the 
matter. In summary, he made the following points:
It was agreed with SSFS that his funds would be invested more slowly than it was.
His funds had been static and he thinks SSFS is at fault for this.
The SSFS adviser didnt pass on his overseas address to the DFM as he instructed it 
to do. His UK address was tenanted so he didnt want post going to this address.
The service he agreed to was that he would have access to the adviser most 
evenings and would receive a response within 24 hours.
Emails and communications have been ignored. 
SSFS hasnt been in contact with Mr M since 2019. 
In response to Mr Ms last point, our investigator said SSFS can decide whether Mr M was 
still its client. She said as no fees had been charged to Mr M for an ongoing service, it wasnt 
unfair or unreasonable that SSFS hadnt provided this service to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint. Further, I think it is important to 
make clear that my findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely, 
than not, to have happened.
I should also note at this stage that Mr Ms complaint is about the service he received from 
SSFS after its transfer advice from his OPS. Therefore, I will not assess the advice he 
received about this transfer as Mr M hasnt complained about this. Turning first to Mr Ms main complaint about the timescales for investing, it seems he did 
have direct access with the DFM and still does. But SSFS was acting as his agent by 
communicating with the DFM when Mr M instructed its (SSFS) adviser to do so. So, whilst 
SSFS adviser communicated Mr M's instructions to the DFM, ultimately, it was the latters 
responsibility for managing Mr Ms investment portfolio on a discretionary basis. 
Mr M says he had agreed with SSFS his investments would be invested over a period of 
twelve months. Its clear from conversations between the DFM and SSFS that the timescale 
for investing most of Mr Ms funds was set at around six to nine months. I cant see any 
evidence of SSFS misleading Mr M about this. Mr Ms funds were being managed by a 
discretionary fund manager. The investment decisions including the pace at which 
investments were made, was a decision for the DFM to take. I know Mr M says because 
there were delays to him receiving a welcome letter from the DFM, he wasnt able to take 
action to prevent it from investing so quickly. But given everything Ive said, I dont think I can 
hold SSFS responsible for that.
Similarly, in terms of how static the performance of Mr Ms portfolio was, I cant hold SSFS 
responsible for this as his funds were under the management of a discretionary fund 
manager. Mr M seems to acknowledge this in an email dated 22 March 2019 where he told 
the SSFS adviser: I [Mr M] do not see the point of paying [the DFM] fees for a static 
fund as I can simply let it it (sic) run it myself! Additionally, am I able to make decisions and 
given instructions on when and how to invest existing cash. I know Mr M has raised 
concerns with the DFM separately. And if he decides to bring his complaint about the DFM 
to this service, this will also be considered separately.
Mr M also complains about how SSFS interpreted his instructions in terms of what he asked 
the DFM to do about managing his investments. In April 2019, Mr M started putting certain 
restrictions on what the DFM could do and says SSFS interpreted what he said incorrectly. 
But from what I can see Mr M had only asked the DFM not to use the cash funds. But when 
he noticed purchases had been made, he said the DFM had gone against his instructions. 
However, as the SSFS adviser explained to Mr M no cash funds had been used for this  the 
funds had come from sales proceeds. So, I dont think the SSFS adviser had misunderstood 
Mr Ms instructions.
All in all, I think SSFS took reasonable steps to understand Mr Ms instructions and to 
accurately pass these on to the DFM. It also gave him appropriate risk warnings about the 
proposed course of actions when he said he wanted to self-manage his funds. And when Mr 
M clarified what he wanted in his emails to the adviser in July 2019, SSFS took immediate 
steps to follow this up with the DFM in line with his instructions. I think SSFS has acted fairly 
and reasonably in all these circumstances.
Mr M says SSFS didnt contact him in line with what was agreed. The service agreement Mr 
M signed with SSFS offered a number of services including face to face or telephone 
meetings with its adviser. And looking at the timeline Ive outlined above, I think the level of 
communications was within what was agreed. I note this extended to the adviser calling Mr 
M when he (the adviser) was on holiday. And he (the adviser) also offered to visit Mr M at his 
overseas address. I cant fairly conclude under these circumstances, that SSFS level of 
contact with Mr M was unreasonable.
Mr M complains that questions went unanswered by SSFS. But from the evidence Ive seen 
SSFS has, on the whole, provided answers to Mr Ms questions. Of course, these answers 
may not always have been to his satisfaction. However, I think SSFS has acted reasonably 
and fairly in terms of providing responses to Mr Ms questions and other requests made by 
him within reasonable timescales.Mr M points to issues about SSFS providing incorrect contact preferences to the DFM. He 
says that he told SSFS to pass on his overseas address to the DFM as this was the address 
he wanted the latter to use. In an email to the SSFS adviser on 11 May 2018, Mr M says: I 
am now in a receipt of a letter from [the fund manager] that does not make sense. For clarity, 
you have my nominated address for correspondence but we have an agreed and preferred 
method of correspondence by either email or [phone messaging service].
So, I think Mr M clearly wanted correspondence sent by email. But the DFM has confirmed 
for the most part, this is how it communicated to Mr M. Further, it appears from what he said 
above, that he was arranging for his post to be collected from his UK nominated address and 
I cant see that he referred to his preference to have post sent to him overseas. In any event, 
as Mr M was in direct contact with both the DFM and the SIPP provider, this is something he 
could have arranged directly with those parties.
However, SSFS did provide Mr Ms incorrect email address to the DFM initially which likely 
led to some of the log in problems he initially had with this account. But as our investigator 
said, given SSFS waived its fees for more than a year, I think this sufficiently compensates 
Mr M for this mistake. As far as SSFS is concerned, I accept Mr Ms preference was by text 
messaging (SMS) and also by email. And from what I can see SSFS did adhere to these 
preferences.
I know Mr M is unhappy that SSFS hasnt provided any ongoing service to him since 2019. 
But SSFS hasnt charged him for an ongoing service since it agreed to waive its fees for 
2018. So, I cant see he has suffered any financial detriment. Whilst I know Mr M thinks 
SSFS should refund him the initial advice fees for the advice about the transfer of his OPS, 
under this particular complaint, I cant see any basis for awarding this as redress. As Ive 
said, it has waived its ongoing fees, which I think is fair and reasonable for the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. I dont think it has to do anything further.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman