DRN-3328570
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money shes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Miss M has fallen victim to a safe account scam. She says that, on 8 June 2021, she missed 
lots of calls from different telephone numbers whilst in a meeting at work. After the meeting, 
her phone rang again, and she answered it. The caller told her they worked for Ofcom  the 
UKs communications regulator  and her internet had been hacked. In the following order, 
they asked her to: 
Open her mobile banking application and check whether there had been any 
suspicious activity. She followed their instructions and couldnt see anything obvious.
Download a remote support application on her phone so they could show her how 
many hacks had been attempted on her device  she saw that there had been 42 
attempts and then closed the application.
Re-open her mobile banking application and move her money into a specified safe 
account so they could follow the trail of the hacker - £1,490 was paid from her 
current account to the safe account. The caller said the money would be transferred 
back into Miss Ms current account after 10 minutes if the hacker didnt follow the 
trail. She stayed on the phone for the duration, and then the call was disconnected.
Miss M says she immediately reported what had happened to Monzo. She asked if it could 
do anything to stop the £1,490 payment out of her account. But Monzo didnt retrieve her 
funds and its declined to reimburse her under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because it says she ignored an effective warning it 
gave her during the payment journey and she didnt do enough to check who she was 
paying and what for.
Miss M asked this Service to consider her complaint. She said:
She has only recently moved to the UK and she didnt know how to handle the 
situation. She was aware that the call may be a scam and she tried to do as many 
safety checks as she could whilst on the phone in a pressured situation (the caller 
told her she only had a 10-minute window to take action). 
She entered the callers telephone number into an internet search and nothing came 
up against it, but she saw that it was a UK number. 
She asked the caller why there had been calls to her mobile from multiple numbers 
that morning and they said it was just Ofcoms call centre trying to get in touch with 
her urgently.
She conducted an internet search to check that Ofcom was a genuine business that 
her internet provider was associated with and found that it was. She also saw that 
Ofcom wasnt reporting anything about scams or fraudulent calls on its website.
The caller told her how to find her IP address on her device, and then they confirmed 
they knew what it was by giving her the last digits. They asked her to look at the 
location of the address, and it showed as California. The caller said this 
demonstrated she was being hacked as it wasnt her current location.
The caller knew the last 4 digits of her bank account number.
She questioned why she had to move money to an account in an individuals name 
rather than a generic Ofcom account. The caller said the only way of catching the 
hacker was to follow the money. They also passed her to a manager who reiterated 
the urgency of the situation and that there had been a number of hack attempts.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that the warning Monzo gave Miss M during the payment 
journey was impactful enough to be considered an effective warning under the CRM Code, 
so she didnt think Miss M had ignored an effective warning. She also thought that Miss M 
had a reasonable basis for belief. She concluded that Monzo should have reimbursed 
Miss M under the CRM Code.
Monzo didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. In 
summary, it said:
The warning that it gave Miss M during the payment journey was timely, impactful 
and relevant to the scam. Even though it doesnt mention Ofcom, it was enough to 
give a reasonable person pause for thought.
If Miss M had been duly diligent, she wouldve concluded that she was being 
scammed.
Theres no reasonable basis to believe Ofcom would contact a customer to advise 
them theyd been hacked and ask them to move money to a safe account held by a 
named individual.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the CRM Code, but its allowed us to apply the CRM Codes 
principles to complaints we consider against it which meet the relevant criteria.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss M has fallen victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Monzo has argued that two of the exceptions apply in this 
case. It says that Miss M ignored an effective warning it gave during the payment journey 
and she made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the 
person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the 
person or business she was transacting with was legitimate.
Effective warning
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have an impact 
on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer. 
Ive considered the warning Monzo says it gave Miss M during the payment journey and 
I appreciate that it tried to provide an effective warning. But overall, Im not satisfied it can 
reasonably be said that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met. I dont 
think the warning was impactful or specific enough.
It's clear to me that the warning Monzo displayed attempts to prevent safe account scams, 
but I dont think the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this particular type of safe 
account scam obvious to its customers. The warning is bright red and says Stop, dont pay. 
Its very likely this is a scam. But then it goes on to say:
Remember:
X Monzo will never call you without arranging by email or in-app chat first
X Other banks will never ask you to move money out of your Monzo account
Check with your bank
Call your bank from the number on the back of your card
The caller told Miss M they were calling from Ofcom, not Monzo. So, the warning is not 
specific to her particular circumstances or the scam she fell victim to, and I can see why she 
moved past it. In any event, the warning does not really bring to life what safe account 
scams look like. It doesnt explain that fraudsters pose as banks and other genuine 
companies and apply pressure to convince their victims that the funds in their account are at 
risk if they dont move them to a safe account with urgency. Nor does it talk about the 
prevalence of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be  it doesnt 
for example, explain that fraudsters often know personal information about their victims and 
use this as a tactic to convince them that they are genuine. Finally, the warning doesnt 
explain the potential consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person in Miss Ms position would fully 
understand the scam risk from the warning Monzo gave.
I can see from the evidence that Miss M appreciated there was some risk, and she made 
some effort to protect herself from financial harm. But shes said she didnt know how to 
protect herself so she carried out the safety checks she could think of before she was 
ultimately persuaded by the scammer. If Monzo had really brought to life what a scam of the 
nature Miss M fell victim to looks like with specific information, and if it had given advice on 
how customers can protect themselves from this type of scam and explained the potential 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment, then I think this wouldve been 
important contextual information that wouldve affected Miss Ms decision making and led 
her to take additional steps to protect herself.
Reasonable basis for belief
Im satisfied that Miss M had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. 
I note that she was at work when she took the call from the scammer, and the pressure was on  shes said she thought she had a 10-minute window to take action. She would no doubt 
have been worried about her funds, but she still tried to do some safety checks in the time 
she thought she had. She asked the caller relevant questions and she carried out some 
internet searches. Ultimately, she was persuaded the scammer was genuine from the 
research she conducted under pressure and in a less than ideal environment, the answers 
the scammer gave her and the personal information they knew about her. I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
Monzo has pointed to some red flags in the scammers story, and said it believes Miss M 
couldve done more checks to protect herself. I acknowledge Monzos points but, as Ive said 
above, I dont think it made the scam risk clear to Miss M. Overall, I think the fraud was 
sophisticated and I dont think its unreasonable that it went undetected by Miss M.
Conclusions
To conclude, Im satisfied that Monzo should have reimbursed the money Miss M lost to this 
scam under the terms of the CRM Code. I am not persuaded that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Miss Ms loss within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Miss M should have been reimbursed 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman