DRN-4108139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical* 
unreasonably delayed processing the surrender of their investment, leading to a loss of 
around £20,000 for which Mr and Mrs C hold Clerical Medical responsible. 
To put things right, Mr and Mrs C would like more compensation than Clerical Medical has 
already paid in respect of admitted shortcomings in its service, in order to reflect the 
surrender value they believe they could have achieved but for delay on the part of Clerical 
Medical. 
*In my decision Ill just refer to Clerical Medical to keep things simpler.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a Clerical Medical investment bond which they wanted to encash. On 
8 April 2022, an independent financial adviser (IFA) acting on their behalf arranged for 
Mr and Mrs C to complete and sign the necessary surrender form. On this date, the bond 
surrender value was more than £184,000. 
The IFA says the surrender form was sent the same day to the address shown for Clerical 
Medical on the form. Clerical Medical says it has no record it ever received that form.
On 8 June 2022, the IFA chased things up with Clerical Medical and was told over the phone 
that Clerical Medical had not received Mr and Mrs Cs surrender form. 
Following a further phone call made to Clerical Medical on 13 June 2022, the IFA emailed 
(and posted) a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs signed surrender form to a different Clerical Medical 
office.  
By this time, the bond surrender value was significantly less than it had been on 8 April and 
there followed further discussions between the IFA and Clerical Medical about this.
On 1 July 2022, Clerical Medical paid £164,567.34 to Mr and Mrs C, which reflected the 
bond value on 14 June 2022 plus interest (at the Bank of England base rate) to 1 July.    
When Mr and Mrs Cs IFA complained on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf, Clerical Medical upheld 
their complaint in part. It didnt agree it was responsible for delayed encashment and 
investment loss dating back to 8 April as it said it had never received the original surrender 
form. But Clerical Medical agreed it should have acted sooner on receipt of the copy 
surrender form the IFA sent in June. Clerical Medical said it should have processed the full 
encashment payment within a reasonable timescale of 5 working days, so by 20 June at the 
latest, but it didnt do this until 1 July 2022.
To put things right, Clerical Medical paid £505.29 into Mr and Mrs Cs bank account, made 
up as follows:
 £200 for distress and inconvenience 
 £50 for the length of time it had taken Clerical Medical to resolve the complaint
 £255.29 net 8% interest for delay in the processing of this surrender claim (20 June 2022 
until 1 July 2022), less the late payment interest (paid at the base rate) already included with 
the payment over the same period.
Mr and Mrs C didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so they brought this 
complaint to us via their IFA who is now acting as their representative. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. 
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. In brief summary, he said there was no evidence that suggested the surrender 
form sent by Mr and Mrs Cs IFA was received by Clerical Medical before June 2022 and the 
pay-out Clerical Medical had made was fair and reasonable to reflect what happened. So he 
didnt recommend that Clerical Medical needed to take any further action. 
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs C  I can completely understand that whats happened has 
been upsetting and frustrating for them. But having thought about everything I've seen and 
been told, Ive independently reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill 
explain why I say this. 
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues 
I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention 
everything Mr and Mrs C have brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of their 
concerns in my own words. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the 
outcome of the complaint.  
The key part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, as I understand it, is that Clerical Medical hasnt 
accepted responsibility for the investment loss they suffered as a result of their bond 
encashment instructions in April 2022 not being actioned on a more timely basis. So the 
central issues for me to decide are:
when did Clerical Medical receive Mr and Mrs Cs surrender form, and
did Clerical Medical act fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs C after it received 
their encashment instructions.
I can tell Clerical Medical to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am 
satisfied that Clerical Medical did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and 
this caused Mr and Mrs C some detriment and/or financial loss. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information. And I must be impartial.  
I have no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs Cs IFA is certain about what hes told us. But 
Mr and Mrs Cs IFA has also said he doesnt keep a record of outgoing post and without this, 
or any proof of posting or any tracking information, theres a lack of supporting evidence to 
show that hes correct in saying that Mr and Mrs Cs surrender form was posted to Clerical Medicals Edinburgh office on 8th April 2022. So what Mr and Mrs Cs IFA has said about 
this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
I also have to give due weight to what Clerical Medical has told me and the information it has 
provided in support of what it says. 
I've taken into account that on receipt of post, Clerical Medicals process is to scan this onto 
its system  it has no record of Mr and Mrs Cs surrender form having been scanned to the 
system. Its system records show no correspondence was received on Mr and Mrs Cs policy 
after November 2020 until the email from the IFA on 13 June 2022 (uploaded to Clerical 
Medicals system on 14 June 2022). It seems the IFA had acquired a surrender form with a 
return address that was different to the Clerical Medical form it would have provided had he 
requested the form directly - and the correct from could be downloaded. But in any event, 
I understand that Clerical Medical has post-redirection set up for items addressed to its 
Edinburgh office. I cant fairly hold Clerical Medical responsible for any possible problems 
with postal deliveries or other matters beyond its control. 
Clerical Medical says it didnt know anything about Mr and Mrs Cs encashment instructions 
before the IFA made phone contact on 8 June. From what Clerical Medical has told us about 
its process for receiving post, that seems likely to me. In saying this, Ive kept in mind that 
when Clerical Medical did receive Mr and Mrs Cs signed surrender on 13 June, this led to 
their encashment instructions being processed  albeit with delay.
On balance, I dont find that the available evidence is enough for me to say that Clerical 
Medical received Mr and Mrs Cs signed surrender form before 13 June 2022. So I cant 
fairly hold Clerical Medical responsible for not having implemented their encashment 
instructions prior to that date.
Clerical Medical has admitted that its service fell short of the standard Mr and Mrs C were 
entitled to expect in some respects. After 13 June, Mr and Mrs Cs IFA continued to chase 
Clerical Medical and it has acknowledged that it didnt process the surrender form as quickly 
as it should have done. So I've thought carefully about what would be fair compensation in 
these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C received full value for the bond valuation as at 14 June 2022  this was the 
day after it received Mr and Mrs Cs signed surrender form. The relevant bond terms and 
conditions, say:
5.2.2 For the purposes of any withdrawal other than a regular withdrawal (a one-off 
withdrawal), the price of units will be the bid price determined immediately after Clerical 
Medical receives the withdrawal request... 
12.2.1 Any request made by the Investor under these Provisions must be in writing and 
signed by the Investor and will only be effective once received by Clerical Medical at its 
Administration Office. Clerical Medical will only be obliged to act on any request if it has 
received such evidence or documentation as is reasonable for it to require, taking into 
account the need to verify ownership and the authority of the person making the request...
So I think the bond valuation Mr and Mrs C received was reasonable in all the circumstances 
as it reflected the amount Mr and Mrs C should have received had Clerical Medical actioned 
their surrender request within a day of having received it. 
Clerical Medical has also paid an amount in respect of interest to reflect the delay in 
accounting to Mr and Mrs C for the proceeds they were due - at the 8% rate I would expect. So I dont find that Mr and Mrs C have any financial loss that Clerical Medical hasnt 
addressed.
I can see how Clerical Medicals handling of matters wouldve caused Mr and Mrs C some 
distress and inconvenience but I think the £250 payment it has made is fair compensation 
for this. Clerical Medical has paid an amount that is in line with the level of award I consider 
fair to reflect the extent and impact on Mr and Mrs C of the distress and inconvenience 
resulting from its service failings after 13 June 2022. 
I dont think it would be fair to ask Clerical Medical to make any additional payment here as 
I am satisfied that it has already provided fair redress for the poor service it provided 
Mr and Mrs C on this occasion.
All this leads me to the conclusion that I havent seen enough overall to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that Clerical Medical needs to do more to put things right. 
Each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in 
this particular case and what the IFA has said about the experience of other Clerical Medical 
customers doesnt change my conclusion here.  
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C hoped for, they will at least feel that their 
complaint against Clerical Medical has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and I make no directions requiring Scottish Widows 
Limited trading as Clerical Medical to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman