DRN-3842233
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr P got in touch with Fairmead about damage caused by a water leak in his home. 
The downstairs bathroom and adjacent playroom were affected. Mr P arranged for 
the leak to be repaired.
Fairmead accepted the claim, and its contractor, H, carried out repairs. This included 
replacing the wooden flooring in the playroom.
Soon after, Mr P noticed the new wooden flooring had become wet again. He got in 
touch with H. He understood they would temporarily remove a small section of the 
flooring, check for leaks, and take things from there. However, all the flooring was 
removed, and discarded, and H didnt agree to further repairs. Mr P questioned 
whether the playroom had been thoroughly dried before the repairs were carried out.
Fairmead said no drying had been carried out prior to repairs because the damaged 
areas were already dry. Although it accepted there was no evidence for this, 
Fairmead was satisfied the claim had been handled fairly. It said a leak detection 
report had confirmed there was no leak and the recent damage was caused by a new 
and separate problem  wear and tear of the external rendering, which isnt covered 
by the policy. So it didnt offer to carry out any work to the playroom floor.
Without the wooden flooring, the concrete below was exposed and as a result, Mr Ps 
children havent been able to use the playroom. Fairmead seemed to accept that H 
had been unclear about how much of the flooring it would take up. But it said the 
flooring was beyond economic repair (BER) and couldnt have been re-laid.
Our investigator was satisfied Fairmead had looked into the recent damage fairly and 
had relied on expert advice to say it was caused by a new and separate problem. 
Given the floor was BER, he thought it was reasonable H had completely removed it. 
But as this wasnt what it had agreed with Mr P, and that had left the concrete floor 
exposed for months, our investigator thought Fairmead should pay £500 
compensation.
Fairmead agreed with this. Mr P didnt. He said it was going to cost over £3,000 to 
supply and install new wooden flooring. He asked how Fairmead could show it dried 
the floor thoroughly before carrying out repairs.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a few different points, so Ill consider each separately.
Initial repairs
Fairmead says the damaged areas had dried naturally and so there was no need for 
drying to be carried out prior to repairs. However, it accepts theres no evidence to 
support this.
When carrying out a repair, Fairmead must ensure its lasting and effective. In the 
case of water damage, that means ensuring the areas are sufficiently dry before 
carrying out repairs, otherwise a future problem is likely to arise.
In my experience, its best practice to take moisture readings, report on what is 
found, and once the area is sufficiently dry, issue a certificate to confirm that. No 
evidence has been provided to show any of this happened. And water damage was 
found to the floor soon after H completed repairs.
Because of this, Im not satisfied Fairmead has currently shown it carried out a 
lasting and effective repair. However, if it can show the new damage is caused by 
something unrelated to the original leak, then I may be satisfied that it acted fairly 
overall. If not, there will be more for it to do to put things right.
Cause of new damage
Fairmead arranged for a leak detection report. In principle I think that was a 
reasonable way forward to help identify the cause of the new damage. But its not 
clear who carried out the report. It doesnt have the name of a company or the author 
and their role or qualifications in the report. And it doesnt seem the findings of the 
report were followed.
The report found elevated moisture readings and said thermal imaging indicated a 
potential leak from a central heating pipe under the playroom floor. It recommended 
taking steps to check whether there was a leak. It didnt mention any other potential 
problems.
I havent seen anything to suggest these steps were taken. Instead H seems to have 
visited again and said the floor was dry. Then a short time later it said an area of the 
floor near the back door was wet, leading it to conclude the problem had been 
caused by the damaged external rendering nearby. I havent seen any reports to 
support these findings though.
Prior to the leak detection report, H said it had carried out water tests which 
suggested there was a leak from an internal source and not rising damp. I havent 
seen a report to support these findings either and they seem inconsistent with what H 
later said.
Mr P took advice from a company which I understand deals with water leak problems 
for other insurers. It suggested Fairmead should have carried out drying initially and 
the extent of damp found in the leak detection report could be residual moisture from 
the initial leak. But no report or investigation of its own was provided.So overall, the picture is very unclear. The only report Ive seen indicated a leak and 
nothing else, but its unclear who produced it. The possibility of that leak hasnt been 
followed up. H itself indicated an internal leak initially but later thought the problem 
was solely related to render wear and tear. I havent seen any reports from H. Given 
how unclear and inconsistent the evidence is, Im not persuaded the conclusion 
Fairmead has drawn from it is reasonable.
I would have expected Fairmead to consider things thoroughly, carry out further 
investigations to rule out possibilities if necessary, and reach a clearly reasoned 
conclusion. It hasnt done that, so Im not satisfied it has treated Mr P fairly.
Its now well over a year since the flooring was lifted. Mr P says the floor has 
remained dry during that time  despite no work being carried out to the render. This 
suggests there isnt another leak  from the render or elsewhere.
Whilst its possible the original leak had dried and the subsequent problem is 
unrelated, I dont think the available evidence clearly supports that being the likely 
position. It seems more likely the floor wasnt fully dry when the flooring was laid and 
the remaining moisture caused damage. That doesnt amount to an effective and 
lasting repair.
Because of this, Im satisfied it would be fair for Fairmead to pay to have new flooring 
laid. It can arrange to have that work carried out by its own contractor or pay Mr P the 
cost he would face if he had the work done.
Removing the new flooring
Fairmead seems to have accepted H gave Mr P unclear information about what it 
was going to do. Ive seen it say it would remove part of the flooring and it removed 
all of it, disposing of the flooring without Mr Ps agreement.
H says the way the floor was laid, and the fact it was BER, meant it all had to be 
removed and couldnt be re-laid. I havent seen any evidence to the contrary and 
given it had been water damaged, that seems likely. However, if H had told Mr P this 
before it carried out the work, he may have chosen to keep it as it was. But I think 
sooner or later it would have needed to be taken up to investigate the problem further 
and aid the drying of the area.
So whilst H ought to have been clearer with Mr P about what it was going to do  and 
sought his permission when it changed its plans  Im not persuaded this has caused 
significant distress and inconvenience. I will factor this into the overall compensation 
figure.
It took H and Fairmead a long time to investigate the damage after Mr P said the new 
flooring had become damaged. And, as Ive set out above, Im not satisfied it reached 
a reasonable conclusion about the cause of the problem. If it had acted more 
promptly and effectively, I dont think Mr P would have been unable to use the 
playroom properly for as long. And if it had dried the floor thoroughly first time round, 
the significant delay putting the floor back would have been avoided.
As a result, Im satisfied Fairmead should compensate Mr P. I think £500 is 
reasonable in the circumstances.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P responded to say he accepted my provisional decision.
Fairmead didnt respond.
As neither party commented on or challenged any of the findings in my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change them or comment on them further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay to replace the flooring.
Pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman