DRN-3228041
The complaint
Mr P complains about the excess mileage fee charged by FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford 
Credit (FCE) when he returned his car at the end of his hire purchase agreement. 
Mr P is represented in this complaint by Miss W, but for ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr P 
directly throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with FCE in early 2015. When the agreement 
ended in early 2018, Mr P chose to return the car and take out a new agreement. Mr P says 
he was told there wouldnt be anything further to pay toward the vehicle. 
FCE later sent Mr P an invoice for excess mileage charges of £1,345.44 for the vehicle. Mr P 
complained to FCE about this charge. He said the mileage allowance wasnt explained when 
he entered into the agreement, and he didnt agree to the annual allowance of 6,000 miles. 
FCE responded to Mr Ps complaint to say that hed signed the agreement with the mileage 
allowance and charges noted, and that hed had an opportunity to review the key points 
document which also set out the excess mileage charge. They said the allowance and 
charge were clear in the documents, and so didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr P. She thought the mileage allowance was clear in the agreement, and that it 
allowed FCE to charge for excess miles covered during its term, so she didnt ask FCE to 
take any further action. 
Mr P disagreed. He said the mileage was not discussed at the start of the agreement, and 
he was told hed have nothing further to pay when he handed the car back. 
Our investigator asked Mr P if he had a copy of his insurance documents from the time, 
which would show how many miles hed told his insurance company he intended to cover, 
and if the new agreement taken when this one ended had a mileage allowance on it. 
Mr P said the new agreement didnt have a mileage allowance, and that the insurance for 
the vehicle was for 6,000 miles. Mr P said he was misled, as he wouldnt know that 6,000 
miles wasnt enough unless the dealership worked this out with him prior to entering the 
agreement. 
Our investigator told Mr P that the mileage on his insurance documents supported that he 
intended to cover 6,000 miles a year, and so she didnt ask FCE to take any further action.
 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me there are two things for me to consider in respect of Mr Ps complaint. 
1. Does the agreement between Mr P and FCE allow for a charge in respect of excess 
miles driven during its term.
2. If it does, was it fair for FCE to charge Mr P. 
The agreement
The hire purchase agreement between Mr P and FCE sets out the excess mileage details 
and charges on page 1 of 6. It confirms the approved annual mileage of 6,000 miles, and a 
charge of 8p per mile plus VAT where this is exceeded. 
Ive also seen evidence of the annual mileage allowance and the excess mileage charges in 
the pre contract credit information, key points document, the terms and conditions and the 
guidebook. 
So, Im satisfied that the agreement between Mr P and FCE had an annual mileage 
allowance of 6,000 miles, and that it allowed FCE to charge Mr P if this allowance was 
exceeded. 
When the car was handed back, it had covered 14,015 miles more than the mileage 
allowance. So, Im satisfied that FCE have calculated the excess mileage charge in line with 
the terms of the contract. 
Was the charge fair
Mr P has said that he wasnt made aware of the excess mileage charge when entering the 
agreement, and that he was told there would be nothing further to pay when he handed his 
car back to the dealership. 
As theres no written record of the verbal conversations that took place between Mr P and 
the dealership, Ive considered the wider details to decide whats most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. 
Mr P told this service that he didnt use the car often, as he used a different vehicle for work, 
and it was used for local activities and school runs. Mr P also told us that when taking 
insurance for the vehicle, he told the insurance company hed travel 6,000 miles a year. 
There is no mileage allowance on any new agreement to indicate how many miles Mr P 
thought he might cover when he handed back this vehicle. 
Whilst I cant know for sure what was discussed between Mr P and the dealership at the time 
of entering the agreement, Im satisfied that the documents were clear, and that given the 
information provided to the insurance company, Mr P likely thought that an allowance of 
6,000 miles a year would be sufficient for his needs. 
Mr P understood that hed have nothing further to pay under this agreement when arranging 
to acquire a new vehicle with the dealership. Whilst this might have been the case for any 
outstanding finance, any excess mileage or damage charges would be calculated at the end 
of the agreement by FCE. These charges couldnt have been calculated by the dealership, 
or before the agreement came to an end and the car had been handed back and inspected. Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair for FCE to charge Mr P for the miles covered in excess 
of the agreed annual mileage allowance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman