DRN-3196071
The complaint
Mr M says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr M took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go. A summary of his borrowing follows.
He says the lender did not carry out effective checks and had it done so it would have seen
the loan was not affordable.
The investigator said Loans 2 Go was wrong to give both loans to Mr M. He said its checks
werent proportionate and better checks would have shown the loans were unlikely to be
sustainably affordable.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying, in summary, its lending decisions were fair given the results
from Mr Ms credit checks.
As agreement wasnt reached the case was passed to me to make a decision. I reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator but made some different findings, so I issued a 
provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both 
parties to send any comments or new information by 30 November 2021. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loans. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It completed income verification with a third 
party to check his minimum income and adjusted his declared expenditure to ensure it was 
reasonable. It added a buffer to allow for unplanned expenses. It then checked Mr Ms credit 
file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments at the time of both applications 
and his credit history. I cant see it asked about the purpose of the loans. From these checks 
combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr M had sufficient disposable income to afford the loans.
Our investigator felt the checks were not proportionate and based on information it saw on
Mr Ms credit file (he referenced arrears on utility bills) it should have carried out more
detailed checks. To look at what it might have found he reviewed Mr Ms full credit file and
from this he saw Mr M was paying a significant amount in credit repayments each month and
so it was unlikely either loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr M.
Loans 2 Go pointed out that it is common for a lender to see different results on its credit
checks to the full credit report a borrower can obtain. I accept this. It also said its credit
checks showed Mr M was up-to-date on the vast majority of his accounts, there were arrears
on only one utility account and by the time he applied for loan two this had been settled
suggesting his finances were stable.
I have reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator, but my reasoning varies
slightly. Ill explain further.
I think the initial checks Loans 2 Go carried out were proportionate given the size and term
of the loans, but I dont think it reacted appropriately to the information it gathered. Mr M
applied for two relatively low value loans over a term of 18 months each time. And although
the monthly repayments were low as a percentage of his income, Loans 2 Go needed to be
sure he would be able sustainably repay the loans.
It could see from its credit checks that Mr M was already spending a significant proportion of
his income to repay his existing debt. At the time of loan 1 Mr M declared income of £2,250
but Loans 2 Go amended this after its checks to £1187. He was already making monthly
loan repayments of £379, and so I dont think  taking into account his relatively low income
- that adding to this was without the risk of putting Mr M in a position where he was using
such a proportion of his income to repay credit that it might become unsustainable for him
during the 18-month term.
Similarly when he applied for loan 2 he was still making a monthly loan repayment of £379
and Loans 2 Go had this time amended his declared income from £1600 to £1266. So again
giving loan 2 to Mr M put him in the position where he was increasing an already significant
amount of his income to service debt. And this should have indicated to the lender that there
was a risk the loan might not be sustainably affordable for Mr M.
In addition Mr M had repaid loan 1 less than three weeks after taking it out, but then come
back for loan 2 only five weeks later. I think this pattern of borrowing indicates Mr M was
most likely already suffering some kind of financial instability.
So, in summary, as a responsible lender I dont think Loans 2 Go made fair lending
decisions based on the information it gathered. I think it ought to have realised there was a
high risk the loans were not sustainably affordable for Mr M.
It follows I think Mr M has lost out as result of Loans 2 Gos decisions.
I havent found that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other
way. 
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
Mr Ms representative confirmed receipt of the provisional decision but sent no new 
comments or evidence. Loans 2 Go did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party provided new information or evidence, I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows I find Loans 2 Go was 
wrong to give both loans to Mr M.Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loans and treat all the payments Mr M
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ms loan accounts results in there being an outstanding capital
balance the lender should agree and affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman