DRN-3277275
The complaint
Ms S complains that Motability Operations Limited registered a car that was supplied to her 
under a hire agreement in her daughters name which she says has caused issues with 
penalty charge notices.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Ms S under a hire agreement with Motability Operations that she 
electronically signed in January 2019. The agreement was for a minimum period of three 
years but the car was registered in the name of Ms Ss daughter, who is a minor. Ms S 
complained to Motability Operations in September 2021 because the car had been clamped 
and Motability Operations wouldnt pay for a hire car. It said that there were two outstanding 
penalty charge notices so it issued a remedial default notice giving her seventeen days to 
address the fines and engage with the notice issuing authority. On appeal it retracted the 
notice but said that it had been notified about multiple outstanding penalty charge notices. It 
said that a failure to engage with the issuing authority and take responsibility for those fines 
would constitute a breach of the hire agreement. The registration of the car was transferred 
to Ms S in September 2021. 
Ms S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said that Ms S was responsible for 
any fines incurred during the agreement and he didnt think that Motability Operations had 
actively contacted any authorities to obtain information on parking fines or that it had done 
anything wrong about the penalty charge notices. He thought that the car being registered in 
the incorrect name had caused Ms S significant stress and inconvenience and he 
recommended that Motability Operations should pay her £150 to recognise the difficulties 
that its mistake had caused her. 
Both Ms S and Motability Operations have asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. Ms S says that our investigator failed to mention that the car was placed in her 
minor daughter's name or that thered been a breach of her terminally ill childs data. She 
says that she doesnt take liability for the parking fines as she didnt receive them and she 
had a home-help who dealt with these issues so she didnt open any letters. She says that 
the car was clamped and a letter was pushed under her door so she contacted Motability 
Operations but it didnt provide her with a hire car or pay for any taxis.
Motability Operations says that it appreciates the stress and inconvenience that Ms S has 
suffered, but doesnt agree that its due to the car being incorrectly registered in her 
daughters name. It says that that its due to the fines that shes incurred for parking illegally 
and its mistake had no bearing on that. It says that it rescinded the default notice to allow 
Ms S more time to address the fines and the car was towed due to the non-payment of fines.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the car that was supplied to Ms S under the hire agreement was registered in the 
name of Ms Ss daughter, who is a minor  that was clearly a mistake by Motability 
Operations which was corrected in September 2021 when the registration was 
transferred to Ms S;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Ms S had complained to Motability Operations 
about that issue until September 2021 and I consider that Motability Operations then 
acted correctly;
I consider that registering the car in the name of Ms Ss terminally ill daughter will 
have caused distress and inconvenience for Ms S and I agree with our investigator 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Motability Operations to pay £150 to Ms S to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience  Im not persuaded that a 
higher award of compensation is justified in these circumstances;
the terms and conditions of the hire agreement, which had been accepted by Ms S, 
say: You will be responsible for the payment of all fees including any licence fees 
(except for road fund licences where you have an exemption certificate), parking 
charges, fines, congestion charges and other outgoings in respect of the Vehicle;
there were multiple outstanding penalty charge notices as a result of the car being 
parked illegally and Motability Operations says that a notice issuing authority had 
sent statutory notices, penalty charge notices had been affixed to the car and 
enforcement notices had been sent;
Ms S says that she doesnt take liability for the parking fines as she didnt receive 
them but I consider that she would have known, or ought reasonably to have known, 
about the penalty charge notices and I consider that she was responsible for them;
Im not persuaded that the penalty charge notices have been incurred as a result of 
the car being incorrectly registered or that Motability Operations should be liable for 
the notices because the car was registered to Ms Ss daughter;
I consider that Motability Operations has acted correctly in connection with the 
penalty charge notices and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that it was required to provide Ms S with a hire car or to pay for taxis after the car had 
been clamped or that it has breached Ms Ss daughters data protection (but that 
would be for the Information Commissioner to decide if a complaint was made to it); 
and
I sympathise with Ms S for her daughters health issues and appreciate the additional 
difficulties that they cause her, but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Motability Operations to take 
any action in relation to the penalty charge notices, to pay Ms S any more 
compensation than the £150 referred to above or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Motability 
Operations to pay £150 to Ms S to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint in part and I order Motability Operations 
Limited to pay her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman