DRN-2870335
The complaint
 This complaint is about the amount of compensation Nationwide Building Society offered to 
pay to Mr S in respect of payment protection insurance (PPI) that was mis-sold to him 
alongside a credit card.
 
What happened
Mr S complained to Nationwide that it had mis-sold PPI to him. After he brought his 
complaint to this service, Nationwide agreed that the cover had been mis-sold. It calculated 
an offer of compensation, which it said was in line with the general approach set by this 
service. 
Our adjudicator initially thought Nationwides offer was fair. He said it had offered to refund 
to Mr S what hed paid for the PPI policy, the additional interest he paid because of those 
premiums, and 8% simple interest from when Nationwide calculated his account would have 
been in credit. 
Mr S didnt agree with that initial view, and so it was passed for consideration by another of 
our adjudicators. She noted that Mr S usually repaid his credit card balance in full each 
month. And that meant that he would have been out of pocket because of PPI for every 
month he paid his balance off in full. She said that Nationwide should recalculate its offer so 
that Mr S was paid 8% simple interest for the months he was out of pocket. 
I havent seen a response from Mr S to our adjudicators latest view. But Nationwide didnt 
agree with it. It said it had paid 8% interest when Mr S would have had a zero or credit 
balance on his account. As the matter could not be resolved informally, it has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have decided to uphold this complaint effectively for the same reasons given by our 
adjudicator. Ill explain why below. 
As the parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to look at how the cover was sold to 
Mr S. In this decision, I am considering whether Nationwide has fairly compensated Mr S for 
that mis-sale. To put things right, Id expect Nationwide to return Mr S to the position he 
would be in now if PPI hadnt been sold to him. 
Looking at the data Nationwide sent to us, I agree with our adjudicator that Mr S usually 
repaid his credit card balance each month. For example, I can see that in October 2004, the 
statement balance was £200.85. The statement from November 2004 shows Mr S repaid 
that amount in full. That pattern continued most of the time in the months thereafter. 
It seems to me that without a PPI policy, Mr S would have usually paid his credit card 
balance in full. So, when the PPI was added to his account, it cost him more to pay his full 
balance because of the PPI premiums. That means he has been out of pocket by the cost of 
those premiums from the point that he paid for each of them. 
With that in mind, Im satisfied that the fairest way to compensate Mr S and return him to the 
position he would be in now if PPI hadnt been sold is for Nationwide to pay 8% simple 
interest on each of those premiums from the date Mr S paid them until the date he receives 
his refund.  
Putting things right
Nationwide must put Mr S in the financial position he would be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and: 
a) Nationwide must refund the PPI premiums;
b) Nationwide must calculate and pay to Mr S 8% simple interest* for each PPI premium 
from the date Mr S paid for it until the date he gets that money back; 
c) Nationwide can deduct any amounts it has already paid in respect of commission and 
profit share. The evidence doesnt suggest that Mr S made a claim on his policy. But 
if he did, Nationwide can take off what he got from the claim from the amount it now 
owes him. 
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if Mr S requests this. 
My final decision
 I have upheld this complaint to the extent set out above. Nationwide Building Society must 
comply with the above putting things right section. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman