The complaint
Mr T complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr T was given five loans by MYJAR between April and September 2014. Each loan was 
due to be repaid 18 days later. Mr T successfully repaid his first four loans but a balance 
remains outstanding on his final loan. A summary of Mr T's borrowing from MYJAR is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 19/04/2014 07/05/2014 £  100
2 10/06/2014 28/06/2014 £  100
3 23/07/2014 10/08/2014 £  100
4 11/08/2014 29/08/2014 £  100
5 01/09/2014 - £  200
When Mr T first complained to MYJAR it agreed that it shouldn't have given the last loan to 
him. So it offered to remove all the interest and charges from the outstanding balance on 
that loan. Mr T didn't accept that offer and brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr T's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Ultimately he didn't think 
MYJAR should have given the last two loans to Mr T so he asked MYJAR to pay some 
compensation. In order to resolve the complaint MYJAR said it would accept our 
adjudicator's recommendation. It said it would use the compensation that was due to Mr T in 
relation to loan 4 to reduce the outstanding balance on loan 5.
Mr T didn't accept that offer. He thought that since the loans shouldn't have been agreed it 
wasn't reasonable to expect him to repay the principal that he'd borrowed. So, as the 
complaint hasn't been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
DRN-1087803MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Mr T. It asked him for details of 
his income and his normal expenditure. 
I think that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing the first three loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr T needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Ts circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three 
loans. 
MYJAR has accepted our adjudicator's assessment that the last two loans shouldn't have 
been agreed. So I don't need to consider those lending decisions further. But Mr T has 
disagreed with how MYJAR proposes to put things right.
I would normally expect that it is reasonable for a consumer to repay the principal that 
they've borrowed. And I haven't seen anything that would make me think that shouldn't be the case here. Mr T hadn't given MYJAR any reason to think that it would be unreasonable 
to lend to him so I don't think it is unfair for MYJAR to collect the principal that it lent. 
Putting things right
MYJAR has agreed with our adjudicator that it shouldn't have given the last two loans to 
Mr T. So MYJAR should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 4.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 5 and treat any payments
Mr T made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
it appears that reworking Mr Ts loan 5 account will leave an amount of capital still to
be paid. MYJAR can use the total refund for loan 4 (after the deduction of tax) to
offset this. And if, as seems likely, there is still an outstanding capital balance then I
remind MYJAR that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an
affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to loans 4
and 5
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ts complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman