DRN-3219599
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc wrongly told him he didnt have a right to 
live in his buy to let property. It therefore refused to consider a term extension in 2017. And it 
also refused to extend the term of his mortgage in 2020. To resolve his complaint he wants 
TMW to extend the term of his mortgage, preferably for life.
 
What happened
Mr C took out a buy to let mortgage with TMW in July 2008.
Mr C contacted TMW in June 2017 to ask about extending the term on his mortgage. And 
during the conversation he told the agent that he was living in the property. But the agent 
said that as the mortgage was a buy to let he would need to move out before it could 
consider a term extension.
TMW subsequently wrote to Mr C to confirm that he was in breach of the terms of the
mortgage by living there.
Mr C contacted TMW again in 2020 to say he was not living in the property and to ask again 
about extending the term of the mortgage. And he submitted an application. But his 
application to extend the term failed on affordability, although TMW did say that it would 
agree to the extension if he redeemed part of the mortgage.
Mr C complained to TMW, but TMW didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary:
The offer from 2008 was on a buy to let basis and was operating under the conditions 
of a buy to let mortgage. This was why it had written to him in August 2017 to say 
that he was in breach of the conditions;
It could not find any evidence of Mr C having been advised that he would be able to 
reside in the buy to let property. So it couldnt uphold his complaint as it didnt look 
as if his account was set up to allow him to live in the property;
It apologised for not replying to Mr Cs letter of June 2020. And it credited his account 
with £75 compensation as an apology.
Mr C responded to TMW to say that he believed that the terms of his account allowed him to 
live in the property. And TMW replied in November 2020. It said, in summary:
While he was correct that the account was set up as a buy to let with the right for him 
to reside there the terms and conditions now required him to operate the property as 
a rental if he wanted to do things such as extend the term or get additional borrowing;
As its agent had explained, Mr C could live in the buy to let and TMW could not stop 
him doing this. However, if he wanted to extend the term he would need to move out 
and provide evidence he had done so;
When Mr C had spoken to the agent in June 2017 he had said that he was planning 
to move in with an elderly relative to take care of them. So it didnt agree that TMW 
forced him to move out of the buy to let property as he already seemed to be 
planning to do this before he contacted TMW.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt think that TMW had treated Mr C fairly. She said, in summary:
From what she could see TMW didnt dispute that Mr C originally had a right to live in 
the property and she could see that they agreed this in their final response letter. But 
they seemed to be saying that this right had ended. And in 2017 Mr C was told that 
hed breached the terms of the mortgage and was told he didnt have a right to live in 
the property;
It seemed that at some point the terms and conditions had changed and Mr C no 
longer had a right to live in the property. TMW hadnt been able to confirm to her 
satisfaction when this had happened. So she felt that TMW had done something 
wrong, and had treated Mr C unfairly. For this reason, she felt it should pay an 
additional £300 compensation;
She had also thought whether further compensation should be paid. But she felt that 
between 2017 and now there was an opportunity for Mr C to consider alternative 
products;
Shed also considered the difference between the lending criteria in 2017 and 2020. 
But she didnt think there was enough evidence to say that TMW would have 
definitely extended the term under the 2017 criteria.
TMW accepted our investigators view and agreed to pay Mr C an additional £300. But Mr C 
did not agree and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 22 November 2021. I said, in summary:
Id seen a copy of the Standard Buy to Let offer conditions 2006 and the Standard 
Buy to Let mortgage conditions 2006. Clause 15 of the Standard BTL offer conditions 
said:
We are offering you a mortgage under our BTL scheme. It is a fundamental term of 
a BTL that a property may only be occupied under the terms of a tenancy where 
vacant possession can be obtained at the end of the term of the tenancy.
Id also looked at the Standard BTL mortgage conditions. And I saw that paragraph 
32 stated: 
32.1 You may use and enjoy the property and receive rent and profits until we ask 
you to repay the debt under condition 10. This does not mean that we have given you 
permission to let the property or any part of it.
I appreciated that Mr C said that clause 32.1 means that he was able to live in the 
property. But while I understood his argument, my provisional view was that the 
wording of the clause was ambiguous, and did not clearly allow him a right to live 
there. On balance, given that the property was a buy-to-let and taking account of the 
other conditions of the mortgage, including clause 15 of the Standard BTL offer 
conditions, my provisional view was that it was fair and reasonable for TMW to say 
that Mr C didnt have the right to live in the property;
In view of the above, I was not persuaded that TMW acted unreasonably when it 
wrote to Mr C to say that he was in breach of the terms by living there. And, although 
I noted that Mr C said that TMW forced him to leave his property, I was persuaded 
that he told the agent that he spoke to in 2017 that he was already intending to leave 
the property to care for an elderly relative. So my provisional view was that Mr Cs 
decision to leave the property was unrelated to TMWs actions;Even if my view of the mortgage provisions was incorrect, the fact remained that 
TMW was not under any obligation to agree to extend the term of the mortgage. So, 
taking account of all of the circumstances of this complaint, I was provisionally not 
persuaded that TMW did anything wrong by not agreeing to extend the term of the 
mortgage in 2017, or in 2020;
I did agree that TMW had caused some confusion. In its follow up to the final 
response letter it seemed to accept that Mr C had originally had the right to live in the 
property but that this had been lost. It had subsequently confirmed to this service 
that, in its view, the terms and conditions had never allowed Mr C the right to live in 
the property. And it explained that this confusion was why it agreed to pay the £300 
additional compensation our investigator recommended. My provisional view was 
that Mr C had been caused trouble and upset as a result of TMW not explaining its 
position clearly. So I was provisionally persuaded that it was fair that it should pay 
him £300 additional compensation as it had offered to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C doesnt agree with my provisional view. He says, in particular that he believes that he 
has demonstrated that he had a right to live at the property and that TMW have admitted to 
that right. And he wants to have the matter reconsidered along with the impact of the extra 
costs he has had to incur in re-mortgaging with another lender.
TMW has also responded to my view to confirm it has no further points to add.
Ive carefully considered what Mr C has to say but, having done so, I havent been 
persuaded to change my view. 
In his response to my decision Mr C said that this service had not investigated how other 
customers with the same mortgage product had been treated. But I should clarify that my 
role as an ombudsman is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
Cs complaint only.
Mr C says that TMW knew that he was living at the property and that it corresponded with 
him and sent annual statements to him at the address. But Ive also seen a letter that Mr Cs 
broker wrote to TMW at the time he took out the mortgage. This letter confirmed that he 
would be living at a different address after the re-mortgage. So, while I accept that TMW 
may later have corresponded with him at the property address, this doesnt change my view 
that the mortgage was set up on the basis that it was a buy-to-let and Mr C would not live 
there. 
Mr C also says that TMW accepted that he had originally had the right to reside at the 
property. But, as explained in my provisional decision, TMW has subsequently said that this 
was an error and in its view he never had the right to live at the property under the terms of 
the mortgage. I appreciate that this error has caused Mr C confusion. This is why I was 
provisionally persuaded that it was fair that it should pay him £300 additional compensation. 
Mr C also says that he feels that his term extension would have been agreed on the criteria 
in place in 2017. But, as Ive explained, I dont think that TMW acted unreasonably when it 
said that it couldnt accept his application while he was resident in the property. And so, 
while I understand the point Mr C is making, this doesnt change my view. Putting things right
To put things right, TMW should pay Mr C £300 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this decision in part. I order The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to pay 
Mr C £300.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman