DRN-3702388
The complaint
Mr J complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) and their refusal to 
provide him with monthly up to date transactional information for his personal loan.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr J successfully applied for a personal loan with VM. As part of this 
application, Mr J was invited to register for online banking. But having done so, Mr J realised 
he was unable to see transactional data for the loan. He was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr J didnt think VM made it clear hed be unable to see transactional data for the loan and 
he thought this left his account more open to fraudulent activity. Mr J was also unhappy with 
VMs response to his GDPR request to obtain the transaction information. And finally, Mr J 
was unhappy with the misinformation he was given regarding overpayments and how 
interest would be applied. So, he wanted VM to make transactional reporting for this type of 
account mandatory and for them to email him monthly reports for the duration of the loan. Mr 
J also wanted the financial loss he felt hed incurred to be reimbursed to him.
VM responded and upheld the complaint in part. They explained the terms of the account 
made it clear an annual statement would be provided and from this, Mr J would be able to 
see whether the correct interest charges had been applied. While they recognised the invite 
to online banking may have suggested Mr J would be able to see transactional data, they 
didnt think this meant they acted unfairly when not providing it. And they thought theyd 
processed Mr Js GDPR request fairly. But they accepted they told Mr J any overpayments 
wouldnt be subject to interest when they were and so, they refunded the interest charges for 
the overpayment Mr J made. And they compensated Mr J £50 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience this caused. Mr J remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They understood why Mr J 
would want to see his transactional information, but they didnt think VM had agreed to 
provide this when the loan was taken out. They thought VM had acted fairly, and in line with 
the terms, when providing an annual statement and so, they didnt think VM had done 
anything wrong. They were satisfied VM had acted fairly when processing Mr Js GDPR 
request and that the refund of interest, plus £50 compensation, was fair compensation for 
VMs misinformation. Because of this, they didnt think VM needed to do anything more.
Mr J didnt agree. He maintained his belief VM shouldve provided him with the transactional 
information. And he raised his concerns with the regulator regarding the lack of need for VM 
to provide this, as he felt the financial system was biased in favour of lenders such as VM. 
As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr J. I appreciate Mr J wants 
to be able to see the transactional information for the loan, so hes able to understand the 
interest thats been applied and to have an up to date picture of how much he has left to pay. 
And alongside this, Mr J believes being able to see this information will help him protect the 
loan account from any fraudulent activity. So, when Mr J realised he was unable to access 
this information, I can understand the frustration he wouldve felt. I can also appreciate how 
this frustration wouldve been made worse when he was charged interest on an 
overpayment after being told he wouldnt and when he didnt receive what he believed to be 
a satisfactory response to his GDPR request.
But for me to say VM should compensate Mr J for this, or direct them to provide Mr J with 
the information hes requested, Id need to be satisfied VM have done something wrong by 
not making this information readily available in the first place. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Js account, which explain clearly that Mr J would 
receive a yearly annual statement that depicted his payments made, and the interest 
applied, to the account. By agreeing to the loan, Mr J also agreed to these terms and 
conditions.
The terms and conditions do not state monthly transactional information would be supplied. 
And VM have confirmed this information isnt available, or provided, for loans such as the 
one Mr J took out. As there is no regulatory obligation for VM to provide this information, I 
cant say they have acted unfairly when not doing so. 
I appreciate Mr J wont agree with this. And I do think VM asking Mr J to sign up to online 
banking may have created the impression that hed be able to see up to date transactional 
information about the loan through this channel. But even if it did, I dont think this was 
intentional by VM, nor do I think it was a deliberate attempt to mis-lead Mr J. I think VM have 
provided the information set out within the terms and conditions, which is what Id expect 
them to do. So, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
I also appreciate Mr J is unhappy that the industry isnt obligated to provide transactional 
information and feels this sides with lenders such as VM. But the industry rules and 
guidelines are set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, and so this is 
something only they are able to comment on and change. Because of this, I havent 
commented on this any further.
Ive also thought about the way VM processed Mr Js GDPR request. And while I recognise 
Mr J had to provide identification before his request was actioned, I dont think this was 
unfair of VM as they felt they were unable to verify Mr Js signature. As the request Mr J 
made would release personal information about him and the loan, I would expect VM to 
ensure they were satisfied that it was Mr J making the request and so, receiving the 
documents containing personal and confidential information. Ive seen VM made attempts to 
call Mr J to confirm his identify before requesting the documents and so, I think they acted 
both fairly and reasonably.
Finally, Ive thought about VMs failure to provided Mr J with the correct information regarding the way overpayments would accrue interest. Its accepted that VM told Mr J an 
overpayment wouldnt accrue interest when it would. As this isnt in dispute, I dont intend to 
discuss it any further. 
Instead, Ive thought about the offer of compensation VM have already provided to consider 
whether I think its fair. And I think it is. I can see VM have refunded Mr J the interest he was 
charged for the making the overpayment, which I think places Mr J back in the position he 
wouldve been, had VM given him the correct advice. And I can see theyve offered Mr J £50 
to recognise the upset and inconvenience this caused. I think this offer is fair, and in line with 
what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. So, I dont think VM need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. And I appreciate it leaves Mr J with 
a personal loan that hes unable to view and manage as hed like. But as Ive explained 
above, I dont think this is because of anything VM has done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman