DRN-4112447
The complaint
Mr A complains that Forex Capital Markets Limited (FXCM) unfairly prevented him from 
adding money to his CFD trading account. He says as a result he wasnt able to prevent a 
margin call following which FXCM closed his open positions, crystallising substantial losses.
What happened
Mr A had written to FXCM a few times to explain he couldnt deposit money into his account 
from his credit card. Mr A continued to operate his account, making wire transfers from his 
bank branch each time he wanted to add funds.
In September 2022, Mr A had two open positions, both of which had moved against him and 
were running at a loss. Mr A made three attempts to add money to his account from his 
credit card  these werent successful. A few days later, he made two wire transfer deposits 
(on 21 and 22 September) totalling €5,000. 
On 23 September, which was a Friday, Mr A received a margin warning from FXCM. This 
meant his account value, made up of cash and floating profit/loss on open positions, had 
fallen below the margin requirement for his positions. At this stage Mr As positions remained 
open, but he couldnt open new trades.
In the early hours of 26 September, Mr As account value dropped below 50% of the margin 
requirement. FXCM closed his trades  first one, then the other about four minutes later.
Mr A complained. He said the only reason his account fell into margin deficit was because 
he wasnt able to add money to his account. He said FXCM knew about the issues hed had 
with his credit card, and that he wouldnt be able to make a bank transfer over the weekend. 
He didnt think FXCM should have closed his trades.
FXCM didnt uphold his complaint. It said the terms set out that if Mr As margin fell below 
the required level it could close his positions. And that it offered a range of ways Mr A could 
fund his account.
Mr A came to our service, and one of our investigators looked into things. He didnt think 
FXCM had treated Mr A unfairly.
He thought FXCM had acted in line with the terms of the account. And he thought it was Mr 
As responsibility to ensure the account was managed in line with the margin requirements.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said this problem only seemed 
to arise with FXCM, and it should have fixed it. He thought FXCM should either find a way to 
stop his credit card deposits being rejected, or offer an alternative like PayPal which hed be 
able to use.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
I dont think that FXCM is obliged to allow Mr A to deposit money into his account through 
any means he chooses. The terms of Mr As account, which hed have had to agree to in 
order to open the account, say he can make payment by an approved card, crossed cheque, 
bank wire or other methods specified by FXCM  which it has said included services such as 
Skrill and Neteller.
Mr A had tried to use his credit card to add funds before, and it hadnt worked. FXCM has 
explained it was its third party payment vendor that declined the payments. Overall I think its 
fair and reasonable for FXCM to have offered the range of payment options it did, which 
werent, in my view, unfairly restrictive. Whatever the reason for FXCMs vendor declining Mr 
As payments, I dont think it would be fair for FXCM to be required to change its processes 
to allow Mr As particular card to deposit money. There were, in my view, a reasonable range 
of options available to Mr A to add money to his account. I note Mr As arguments that other 
CFD providers have let him use his credit card. But I dont think that means FXCM had to, it 
was free to exercise its commercial judgement about how it wanted to accept deposits.
Mr A had highlighted this issue to FXCM before the events subject to this complaint. I do 
think FXCM could have done more to explain why the card payments were being declined. 
But I dont think it changes things in the context of this particular complaint. Its enough that 
Mr A was clearly aware he couldnt use that card to fund this account. 
This awareness is crucial when it comes to the closure of Mr As positions. The terms of Mr 
As account are clear that he was obligated to maintain in your Account at all times, 
sufficient funds (taking into account P&L) to meet all Margin Requirements. And that if he 
didnt, and where there is any shortfall between your account balance (taking into account 
P&L) and your margin requirement for all open transactions, or where you are in breach of 
an applicable position limit, we may close one, several or all of your open positions 
immediately, with or without notice to you.
So on 23 September, Mr A was, or should have been aware:
He had open positions which had a margin requirement,
If his account value fell below that margin requirement, FXCM might close his trades,
He was currently unable to deposit funds from his credit card (having tried to a week 
or so before),
The underlying markets for his positions would be open before he was able to make 
a bank transfer,
And so if the positions moved against him before he could add more funds, he might 
fall into margin deficit and FXCM would close his trades.
This is, in fact, what happened. I dont think FXCM was responsible for Mr As trading 
decisions, or for his inability to fund his account when he wanted to. Im satisfied it was Mr 
As responsibility to manage his margin, and to fund his account through a means FXCM 
would accept. So it follows that I dont find FXCM responsible for any losses Mr A may have 
suffered as a result of his positions being closed on 26 September. As a result I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to require FXCM to pay Mr A any compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman