DRN-4126346
The complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of the estate of the late Ms H that Lloyds Bank PLC wont allow 
access to the estates account after a dispute was raised. 
What happened
Ms H held an account with Lloyds when she sadly passed away in March 2021. In her will 
Mr H was named as the executor of her will. But a third party, who I shall refer to as X, 
raised a dispute about the account activity, and whether Mr H was the rightful executor of the 
estate. Lloyds took the decision that they would not release the funds in the account without 
a Grant of Probate. 
Mr H raised a complaint on behalf of the estate. He also complained that he had to make 
several requests for information relevant to the estate to be sent to him, and that X had been 
sent a copy of Ms Hs bank statements.
Lloyds responded to say that once a dispute has been raised on an estate, they will only 
release the funds once the Grant of Probate has been granted. They said when X had 
informed them of Ms Hs passing, theyd accepted that there was no will in place. On that 
basis theyd allowed them to request information about the account. But they accepted they 
hadnt responded appropriately for the requests for information and sent Mr H a cheque for 
£125. He declined this amount.
Unhappy with this answer Mr H referred the estates complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. As there was a dispute over rightful entitlement to 
the funds in the account, they felt it wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to ask for a Grant of 
Probate. 
Reviewing the contact notes, they felt that Lloyds could have known that there was will in 
place despite what X had told them, which may have prevented the statements being sent to 
them. But they didnt think this had impacted the running of the estate. The investigator 
accepted there were delays in providing Mr H with information about the estates accounts, 
and this had impacted the running of the estate in preparation for court. They felt that the 
compensation offered to the estate should be increased to £200.
Lloyds accepted this as an outcome. Mr H accepted the outcome in relation to the 
information provided. But he said Lloyds had not given him details about Xs dispute and felt 
he had been given misleading information. These had caused additional delays to the duties 
of the executor, and the settling of the estate. But this didnt change the investigators mind. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am mindful that the complainant here is the estate of the late Ms H  rather than any 
individual associated. And for us to consider a complaint, we generally have to make sure 
were dealing with the executor of the estate and more often than not this is the person or 
persons named on the Grant of Probate.
In this case though I understand Ms Hs estate is a small estate  which is one valued at less 
than £5,000. So, with that in mind our service has the discretion to accept the person named 
in the will as someone who can represent a small estate in a complaint. This is our services 
policy, but this doesnt mean this is universal across the financial services industry. Lloyds 
obviously have a different policy here.  
That is ultimately a decision for businesses themselves to make about what information they 
require. The Grant of Probate settles the issue of who the executors of an estate are. If there 
is a dispute about who should ultimately have access to the estate, then it would be 
reasonable for a bank to rely on the Grant of Probate.
In this case, there is a dispute over who should be entitled to access the estates accounts, 
and act on behalf of the estate. Ive read what Mr H has said, and what X has told Lloyds. 
But the actual underling dispute over who has the right to manage the estate isnt for Lloyds 
to decide upon. Mr H has said Lloyds didnt give him the information on the nature of the 
dispute with X, but its not Lloyds role to act as an intermediary. 
In the circumstances its appropriate for the bank to request the Grant of Probate. This is in 
line with their own internal policies, and a decision they are entitled to make. 
Mr H has sent us some information about Xs claim being struck out in court. Weve 
suggested sending this to Lloyds to consider. But the basis of complaint is Lloyds asking for 
the Grant of Probate  which I do not find unreasonable, so Im not asking them to do 
anything further here.
In terms of Lloyds sending X a copy of Ms Hs statements  I agree that at the time they did 
they could have known that there was a will. In the circumstances they could have taken 
more reasonable care in sharing this information, but I dont see that this will have impacted 
the handling of the estate. So, Im not recommending they do anything further. 
Ive also considered the delays in Lloyds requesting the information Mr H asked for. This 
was made as a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR), which allows an individual to request 
the personal information held on them. But in this case, I accept Mr H was requesting 
information to help him with the management of the estate, which brings it in to the scope of 
this complaint. 
Lloyds have accepted that they didnt provide the information in a timely manner, and 
ignored several requests for information, which will have had an impact on the running of the 
estate. On that basis I consider compensation to the estate to be appropriate. Im satisfied 
£200 is a fair amount and reflects the impact on the running of the estate.My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay the estate of Ms H £200 for the delays in 
providing information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman