DRN-3955626
The complaint
Mr A complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services wont refund him for purchases he doesnt recognise.
What happened
Mr A contacted Argos in March 2022 to dispute two purchases on his store card. Argos 
investigated and wouldnt refund the purchases. Argos sent a final response to say it couldnt 
see any evidence of fraud.
Argos said the two purchases were made in August and September 2021 and didnt know 
why it had taken Mr A so long to dispute them. Argos said Mr A had access to the Argos 
mobile application in December 2021 and was being sent statements every month.
Argos said it was holding Mr A liable for the payments.
Unhappy with this answer, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into things and didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. The investigator couldnt see 
how someone else had got hold of Mr As card, and Mr A wasnt clear about when he lost it.
The investigator was satisfied Mr As card had been used for the purchases, and also 
couldnt see why Mr A hadnt noticed, and reported, the transactions sooner than he did.
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome and said he thought it was likely an employee had made 
the purchases as hed heard about this happening in the past. Mr A also said it didnt make 
sense hed turn to fraud now having always been honest before.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule, its fair for Argos to hold Mr A liable for purchases if the evidence suggests 
he made them or allowed someone else to make them.
Ive looked at the evidence Argos and Mr A has sent in, and Im satisfied the purchases were 
made using Mr As genuine store card.
Mr A says he lost his card, but it isnt clear when this happened. Mr A says the card might 
have been lost as part of his house move. Mr A says he ordered a new card when he 
moved, but had the old card with him before then.
I can see Argos only ever sent two cards, one when Mr A applied for the store card account 
and one in December 2021, when Mr A told Argos about his new address. Im satisfied Mr A 
received the card when he first applied for the account.
The card was posted to Mr A, and hes confirmed he had it at some point. And this was the 
card used to make the disputed transactions.
Argos has said the purchases Mr As disputing were made at an Argos kiosk, using Mr As 
physical card. Ive looked into how purchases are done in the kiosk, and Im satisfied Mr As 
genuine card must have been used to make the purchases.
This means someone must have had Mr As card in their possession when the purchases 
were made, so I dont think its likely Argos staff members were involved.
If staff members were involved its more likely the purchases would have been made another 
way, possibly using Argos own system, rather than a physical card. Ive also asked Argos if 
it had any concerns about the trustworthiness of the staff at the Argos where the purchases 
were made, and it doesnt have any.
And Mr A didnt report the loss of the card until a while after the purchases were made. 
I realise a store card, that isnt used much, might not be noticed if it goes missing. But once 
Mr A realised the card was gone, Id have expected him to check if it had been used.
But it seems Mr A realised the card was missing sometime in, or before, December 2021 
and reported it as lost when he changed his address. But it doesnt seem Mr A asked about 
any usage at this time or asked for his balance.
Mr A signed up for online statements and the email address used is the one Mr A put on our 
complaint form, so Im satisfied its his email. Argos has shown emails were sent to Mr A 
notifying him of his statements being available online.
Mr A also downloaded the mobile app, in December 2021, so he would have seen the 
balance, and disputed purchases then. The purchase Mr A hasnt disputed was for just 
under £200. In December 2021, after the disputed purchases, his balance was over £600.
I think its reasonable to say Mr A should have realised something was wrong in 
December 2021 but didnt tell Argos until March 2022. And Mr A accessed the app again in 
January 2022, to make a payment, but didnt report anything then either.
This suggests Mr A was aware of the purchases, and likely agreed to them being made.
Mr A says he wasnt sent any emails about the purchases, and only received them when he 
disputed the payments in March 2022. I agree Mr A was sent email receipts in March 2022, 
but Argos has shown receipts were sent at the time of the purchases too.
Again, I think Mr A was, or should have been aware of the purchases soon after they were 
made but didnt tell Argos about them. Again, I think this suggests Mr A was aware of the 
purchases and likely authorised them or allowed someone else to make them.
The borrowing limit on Mr As card was £1,000. Mr A spent just under £200 when he opened 
the account. If someone else had access to Mr As card, and over £800 available to spend, it 
seems odd the next, disputed purchase was for £120, on 1 August 2021.
The next disputed purchase was for £319, on 6 September 2021. This left over £350 
available on Mr As card, but this wasnt spent. No further purchases were made, but Mr As 
card wasnt cancelled until December 2021.At any point Mr A could have realised his card was missing, and cancelled it. Id expect a 
random third party, with access to the card, to spend as much, and as quickly as possible.
So, it doesnt seem very likely someone with access to Mr As card, but not knowing when 
hed realise this, would spend a small amount initially. And, having done that successfully, 
would then wait over a month to spend more, but still not spending all the money available 
on the card.
And both disputed purchases were made on a six month buy now pay later deal. Thered be 
no advantage to a random third party putting disputed purchases on this type of deal, theyre 
never going to be paying the purchases off.
Again, this suggests Mr A either made or allowed someone to make the purchases and put 
them on the buy now pay later deal.
Mr A says he wouldnt turn to fraud now, and Id like to be clear Im not accusing Mr A of 
fraud. I have to decide whether its fair and reasonable for Argos to hold Mr A liable for these 
purchases. And having considered everything Mr A and Argos have said, I think it is fair for 
Argos to hold Mr A liable.
In the circumstances, I dont think Argos needs to refund either of the purchases Mr A has 
disputed. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman