DRN-2351663
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way the broker, Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank handled the renewal of his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ls policy was due for renewal on 25 June 2019. Hed bought his policy through Tesco 
Bank the broker the previous year, Tesco Bank. 
The day after his policy expired, Mr L contacted Tesco as he said he couldnt access his 
policy online and hadnt received any renewal documents. 
Tesco gave Mr L information as to how to access his online account. It accepted it should 
have contacted Mr L before his renewal date, but hadnt. For its failing, Tesco offered Mr L 
£150 compensation. 
Mr L had two open claims at the time of renewal. Tesco was able to arrange a policy for Mr L 
with an alternative insurer. Due to the open claims, Mr L wasnt able to protect his No Claims 
Discount. 
Mr L complained that he had no option but to renew his policy with Tesco over the phone. 
He said he had no access to his claims history or NCD to allow him to buy a policy 
elsewhere. He said Tesco Bank wasnt able to provide him with this information. 
To put things right, Mr L wants Tesco to pay his credit and overdraft fees which he says he 
incurred as a result of buying the policy through Tesco. He also wanted Tesco to refund the 
premium he paid.
Mr L said the premium increased from around £300 to £3,000 and the increase caused him 
financial hardship. 
Our investigator thought Tesco Bank had been fair to Mr L. From call transcripts provided, 
he thought Tesco had tried to help Mr L with the issues he was having online. But in any 
event, he didnt think this issue prevented Mr L from shopping around or paying for his policy 
in instalments which would have lessened the impact on him financially.
The investigator arranged for a separate case to be set up for Mr Ls complaint about the 
underwriter of the policy. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. He hasnt provided any further 
comments, but he asked for a copy of the call transcript notes from Tesco Bank. Weve 
provided a copy of these.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The call transcript notes show that when Mr L called to discuss his renewal with Tesco Bank, 
his concerns about the claims were passed to the insurer. 
Mr L has asked that all of the issues he raised be looked at by an ombudsman. My remit is 
to consider whether Tesco Bank acted reasonably as they are a separate business to the 
insurer/underwriter of the policy. So any complaint Mr L has about the underwriter doesnt 
form part of my decision and is under a separate complaint. 
Tesco accepts that it should have contacted Mr L before the renewal date of his policy. 
Fortunately there were no potentially serious consequences as a result of Mr L not being 
insured for a day. And I understand that Mr L had to spend some time on the phone with 
Tesco Bank arranging a new policy. But I think its reasonable to expect a degree of 
inconvenience and time in circumstances such as Mr Ls  in that there were two open 
claims at renewal which affected his NCD and the premium price. Its whether that time and 
inconvenience became unreasonable as a result of Tesco Bank that we consider whether 
compensation should be awarded. 
In this case, I think Tescos offer of compensation of £150 for its failings in the handling of 
the renewal of Mr Ls policy is fair and in line with awards we make for similar cases. So I 
dont think Tesco needs to pay any more. 
Call transcript notes show that Tesco offered Mr L the option to shop around for an 
alternative policy. The notes show Mr L said he couldnt obtain alternative prices due to the 
claims history. But I dont think this was Tescos fault. I think Tesco gave Mr L information 
about both open claims and his NCD. So I think he had the information he needed to shop 
around. And from the notes, Tesco gave Mr L the option to pay for the policy either in full or 
in instalments. 
So I think Tesco Banks offer of £150 compensation for failing to contact Mr L at renewal is 
reasonable. But I dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Tesco Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to pay Mr L £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Tesco Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Tesco Finance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman