DRN-3994548
The complaint
Ms S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to provide her with working bank cards
over a prolonged period, causing her serious inconvenience.
What happened
Ms S holds several accounts with TSB. In November 2021, TSB contacted her and told her
that her accounts had been compromised. It said it had blocked her cards and would send
replacements to her.
Ms S received the replacement cards shortly afterwards. She tried to activate one, but the
card was retained by the ATM. Ms S called TSB and asked for another replacement. Shortly
afterwards, she visited a TSB branch and tried using another new card in the ATM there.
She says she spent around two and half hours at the branch with staff trying to help her, but
they couldnt activate the card. The card worked at the chip and pin terminals but not in the
ATM. The branch staff said they would order new cards.
But Ms S was due to leave the UK two days later and was concerned that she wouldnt
receive the new cards in time. She told the branch staff that she was leaving the UK for
good. She said she didnt have any accounts with other banks. So, without working TSB
cards, she wouldnt have access to her money until she received the replacement cards.
She said that a relative could post the cards to her when they arrived, but it was likely to take
more than three weeks for them to reach her. TSB suggested adding this relative as a joint
account holder so that they could visit the branch and discuss the accounts if necessary.
When Ms S got to the airport a couple of days later, she needed to pay an excess baggage
fee. She knew she was going to have to pay this and had taken cash with her. But the airline
wouldnt accept cash. Ms S couldnt pay by card because she was waiting for the new cards
from TSB. She didnt have any other means of paying and says she had to call a friend to
make the payment. But this took some time and Ms S missed her flight. The next available
flight was three days later. Ms S stayed in a hotel at the airport during that time.
Ms S called TSB to complain. TSB told her that the replacement cards hadnt been ordered
correctly by the branch staff. It apologised and said that new cards had now been ordered,
which her relative would be able to forward on to her. It credited her account with £150 in
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. TSB also said it would consider a
claim for the expenses she had incurred if Ms S provided evidence of these.
Ms S left the UK without working bank cards. She says she wasnt able to pay some bills as
a result, which led to her being in debt. Ms S says she gave the branch staff permission to
activate the replacement cards when they arrived. But she says she shouldnt have had to
do this. She also says she asked TSB to send correspondence to her relatives address, but
it used the branch address without her agreement.
Ms S asked this service to look at the complaint. In April 2022, she got in touch to say her
spending ability was still limited. She said she was still waiting to receive a card for her main
account. She had a card for the other account but didnt have a PIN that worked with it. She
said she was able to make some contactless payments initially but couldnt complete
transactions which required a PIN.
Ms S asked TSB to send a new card and new PINs for both cards to her relative. TSB says it
ordered these the day it received the request. But there was a delay in sending them on to
Ms Ss relative which TSB says was due to extra security checks being necessary. Ms S
says that post was still being sent to her old address (a property which had been sold) until
around September 2022. In November 2022, TSB confirmed that it had ordered a new card
and PIN. These were received by Ms Ss relative in December 2022.
Overall, Ms S says that the situation has been extremely stressful and has made her
question how safe her finances are with TSB. TSB was willing to increase the compensation
to £250. But it said it needed to see proof of Ms Ss expenses. As Ms S now lives abroad
permanently, TSB says it cant guarantee that these sorts of issues wont keep happening. It
says the most appropriate course of action would be to close Ms Ss accounts, as it only
offers a UK banking service and she no longer lives in the UK.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 February 2023 indicating my intention to uphold the 
complaint. Ms S responded and reiterated her dissatisfaction with the service she received 
from TSB. She was disappointed with the amount of compensation Id recommended. TSB 
said it had no further comments following the provisional decision. Im now making a final 
decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ms Ss latest comments and I know she is disappointed with the amount of 
compensation I recommended. Its always difficult to put a monetary value on distress and 
inconvenience. But Im looking at the whole picture, impartially. Our awards arent intended 
to punish a business but to reflect the impact its mistakes had. Im sorry to disappoint Ms S 
but, after considering everything again, I havent seen anything which changes my mind 
about the fair amount of compensation here. So Im going to uphold the complaint and award 
the redress I recommended in my provisional decision. My reasons are set out below.
TSB accepts that there were problems with the replacement cards it sent to Ms S in
December 2021. So, what Im looking at here is the impact of those problems and whether 
TSB has done enough to put things right for Ms S. I dont think it has and Ill explain why.
The first replacement card was retained by the ATM and the second one worked in the chip
and pin machine at the branch but not the ATM. These issues meant that, through no fault of
her own, Ms S didnt have working bank cards. TSBs notes say that when Ms S tried using
the card in the branch ATM, an error message said you can not use this card yet, please
contact your bank. But she was at the bank and, despite their best efforts, the staff couldnt
find any reason why the card wasnt working. There wasnt an issue with Ms Ss account
which stopped the cards from working. So, it was a problem which TSB needed to resolve.
The branch staff ordered new cards for Ms S. The information Ive seen indicates that they
spoke to several other departments within TSB, but none could offer any advice about why
the card wasnt working. I dont think that was satisfactory. It appears that the branch staff
were following advice from colleagues by ordering a new card. I think that was a reasonable
step for them to take in the circumstances, although the notes record that they werent
convinced it would solve the problem.The need for Ms S to receive working cards was particularly urgent because of her imminent
departure from the UK. It was unfortunate that the issue arose so close to her travel date.
But I think TSB could have done more to resolve the card problems before she went. I think
it ought to have been possible for TSB to find out why the card wasnt working properly and
correct that. Failing that, I think it should have been able to expedite the process for ordering
new cards or suggest other solutions. But the replacement cards werent ready before Ms
Ss departure and she later found out that they hadnt been ordered correctly by the branch.
So, rather than resolving the issue at that stage, TSB had prolonged it.
The branch staff member was aware of the urgency of the situation. They suggested making
Ms Ss relative a joint account holder, so that they could discuss the accounts with TSB and
help Ms S. I think that was a reasonable suggestion in the circumstances, particularly as
they didnt expect the card issue to be resolved before Ms Ss departure.
But TSB confirmed in November 2022 that Ms Ss relative is only a joint holder of one of her
accounts and no card request had been made on that account. Im not sure whether this was
already a joint account or whether the relative was added following the branch discussion
Ive described above. Either way, I dont think TSB implemented the solution it had
suggested. I think this explains at least some of the ongoing problems Ms S had after she
left the UK. If her relative had been added to the account as suggested, I dont think there
would have been so many issues with the card and PIN requests being actioned or with the
card and PINs reaching Ms S.
So, having been unable to resolve the card problems on an urgent basis, TSB not only made
a mistake with the re-ordering of the cards but also failed to implement the joint account
solution which it had suggested. I think these mistakes delayed the card issues being
resolved. They also added to and prolonged the distress and inconvenience for Ms S.
Turning to the flight, the reason Ms S missed it was the difficulty she had in paying the
excess baggage fee and the time this took. She knew she would have to pay excess
baggage and had taken cash with her because of the issues with her cards. Its unfortunate
that the airline wasnt accepting cash, but I dont think it was to be entirely unexpected. Many
businesses werent accepting cash due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which by then had been
ongoing for quite some time. I think it would have been reasonable for Ms S to have
contingency arrangements in place, such as having a friend on standby to take her call if she
had any problems at the airport.
So I dont think its entirely TSBs fault that she missed the flight. But I think it played a
significant part. It seems unlikely there would have been a problem if Ms S had had working
bank cards. She shouldnt have had to make elaborate workarounds and they were only
necessary because TSB hadnt been able to provide a new card that worked.
So I think TSB needs to pay something towards the costs Ms S incurred as a result of
missing the flight. TSBs complaints handler invited Ms S to provide details of her expenses.
Ms S says she sent details to the complaint handler, but TSB says it cant find any record of
this. Ms S says she no longer has receipts or other proof of her expenses. But she has
provided enough details for me to be able to make a decision about this.
Ms S says she only paid once for the flight and baggage. So I dont think TSB needs to pay
anything towards those costs as Ms S would have paid them anyway. But Im satisfied that
she spent three nights at a hotel at the airport and had to buy meals during that time. Im
also satisfied that she had to pay for another Covid test ahead of her rescheduled flight.
Taking everything into account, I think it would be fair for TSB to pay £200 towards the costs
Ms S incurred as a result of missing the flight.TSB also needs to pay Ms S some compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience
she suffered. Not only did she miss her flight and have to change her travel plans, but she
also had the worry and inconvenience of being unable to use card facilities on her accounts.
This situation continued over a long period and Ms S had to keep engaging with TSB to try
and get it sorted out. While the complaint has been with this service, TSB said that it may
need to give Ms S notice to close the accounts because she no longer lives in the UK. But it
knew in December 2021 that she would be leaving the UK permanently and didnt discuss
this with her.
Taking everything into account, I think £500 would be a fair amount of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience here. TSB has already paid £150 to Ms S, so Im asking it to pay 
a further £350.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Ms S £350 as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and £200 towards her expenses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman