DRN-2647164
The complaint
Mrs H complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to a missed payment to her 
credit card account that Mrs H thought had been covered through a direct debit (DD) 
payment, but which had in lapsed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons. The evidence provided by 
Santander shows that the facts to this complaint are;
Mrs H had held a credit card with Santander for many years and had previously set 
up a DD to ensure the minimum payment was made.  
The DD was cancelled (not by Mrs H) on 10 July 2014 as it had become dormant  
the last time it was used being the 8 June 2012. 
Mrs H used her card shortly before the end of 2019 and received a statement on 17 
December 2019. 
That statement detailed that a minimum payment of £5 was required by 12 January 
2020, and no such payment was made.
When a DD is in place a customers statements show that to be so, indicating the 
amount to be debited and on what date.
A later payment marker was placed on Mrs Hs credit file and she was charged a late 
payment fee of £12 which Santander later refunded as a gesture of goodwill. 
Santander havent agreed to remove the late payment marker.
I accept that Mrs H was unaware that DDs can become dormant. However, as a fact 
Santander are required under the DD scheme rules to remove any DD authority that has not 
been used for 13 months and so I cant say that Santander acted unfairly in doing that.
The question remains as to whether Santander ought to have done more by notifying Mrs H 
that the DD had become dormant. Santander accept that it did not notify Mrs H that the DD 
had lapsed. It relies upon the statements it produces for its customers which shows whether 
the DD is to be used to take a payment. I think that is enough particularly so when I also 
consider that it is a customers responsibility to manage their own accounts, and to ensure 
payments to their account are made on time. So, I cant say that Santander has acted 
unfairly here either.
Santander has removed the late payment charge as a gesture of good will but said it wont 
remove the late payment marker. I think that is fair too, because its an accurate reflection of 
what actually happened, and Santander is obliged to report accurate information to the 
Credit Reference Agencies.
So, although Mrs H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Santander 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman