DRN-2106926
The complaint
Mr As unhappy Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are asking him to repay a debt he 
says is unenforceable. This debt relates to two credit cards.
A representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Mr A, but for simplicity Ill just refer 
to him in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020, setting out what happened in the complaint, 
and my thoughts on those issues.
Mr A complains that:
a debt Cabot say he has with them is unenforceable because Cabot cant provide the 
original agreement, and because of this they cant prove its a legitimate debt
theyve added charges to his account and should not have done so
theyve been aggressive in their pursuit of the debt in an attempt to unfairly 
pressurise him into paying it 
theyve not proven that the amount is accurate
Cabot responded to the complaint. They said theyd told Mr A in error theyd complied with 
all the information hed asked for  and actually his debt wasnt enforceable. But that doesnt 
mean Mr A isnt responsible for the debt, and it doesnt mean he doesnt have to pay it back. 
They said they didnt agree theyd unfairly pressured Mr A to repay the debt, saying they had 
only asked for payments informally. And theyve nothing to show theyd acted aggressively in 
asking Mr A for repayment. They said sorry for previously saying theyd complied with Mr As 
request and awarded him £50 for this. 
One of our investigators considered it and explained we cant decide whether a debt is 
legally enforceable or not  but we can look at whether its reasonable for Cabot to have 
asked Mr A to repay the debt. And she felt it was.
Mr A replied and said he didnt agree with this. He said given the limited information 
available it didnt seem right to ask him to repay a debt where it couldnt be proven to exist 
under a credit agreement. He also felt it unfair because he didnt know if the balance came 
about correctly, or what the current balance should be. Because of this, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The debt is unenforceable
As our investigator explained its not our role to determine whether a debt is legally 
enforceable or not  thats a matter for the court to decide. But using our fair and reasonable 
remit I can consider whether Cabot have acted fairly in expecting Mr A to repay the debt.
Cabot have demonstrated in their evidence that Mr A was making payments towards the 
outstanding debt in 2017 and 2018. In total, it seems as though he paid nearly £500. Mr A 
also hasnt disputed the debt is his. 
So, I dont think its unfair for Cabot to ask Mr A to repay the debt  since it seems all parties 
agree the debt is his. And I note Cabot paid Mr A £50 in recognition of their error telling him 
the debt was enforceable  which I think is reasonable.
Charges have been added
Mr A has argued charges have been added to the account  but he hasnt been specific in 
this argument.
Ive looked at the balance of the account when Cabot took it over, the payments Mr A has 
made, and the current outstanding balance. This all appears to be accurate  with no 
evidence of interest or charges being applied to the account. So, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Cabot have applied charges as Mr A has claimed.
Whether the amount of the debt is correct
The amount of the debt is set out in the Notices of Assignment when the debt was 
purchased by Cabot. Ive not been provided with any specific arguments as to why the 
balance is incorrect.
And as Ive noted above, the balance has only changed as a result of Mr As payments  so I 
cant reasonably say Cabot have done anything wrong. If Mr A continues to feel there is an 
issue with how the balance was formed, he may wish to discuss this with his lender.
Cabot have been aggressive in their pursuit of the debt
Mr As not given any specific examples, so Ive had a look at all the correspondence hes 
been sent. 
Every letter Ive seen from Cabot is asking Mr A to get in touch with them, so they can help 
him repay the debt. Ive not seen anything to suggest theyve acted aggressively in doing so 
 and as Ive mentioned above, I dont think its unfair of Cabot to ask Mr A to repay his own 
debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party replied to my provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to change the 
outcome Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman