DRN-3635602
The complaint
Mrs H complained about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Halifax didnt agree when Mrs H said she hadnt opened a credit card which was taken out in 
her name, and it refused to refund her for the transactions on the card.
What happened
On 9 May 2021, a Halifax credit card application was made online in Mrs Hs name. The 
application included a request for online banking, and Halifax sent out an activation code. 
The applicant rang Halifax on 11 May to complete the verification. She answered security 
questions about Mrs Hs personal details, and the geographical area around her home. The 
card and PIN were sent out in two separate envelopes to Mrs Hs address. Online access 
was also set up. The credit limit was £2,000.
Transactions started on the account on 17 May, and the first statement was issued on 26 
May, showing a balance of £1,978.91. The statement said the first minimum payment was 
due by 21 June.
A direct debit for the full balance had been set up from an external bank account in Mrs Hs 
name, and Halifax confirmed this by letter to Mrs H on 24 May. But the direct debit bounced 
on 21 June. Meanwhile there had been more transactions, up until 21 June, bringing the 
balance to £2,949.91. 
On 21 June, Mrs Hs bank notified her of the bounced direct debit. She rang Halifax to say 
that she hadnt opened the Halifax credit card account, and not had she carried out any of 
the transactions. She also said she hadnt received a card or any letters from Halifax. 
Halifax didnt agree. It wrote to Mrs H on 5 July, and said that checks on any application 
were done on internal and external data. It explained that security checks were to protect the 
bank and the customer. Its fraud team had investigated Mrs Hs complaint, and didnt accept 
that the account had been opened by someone impersonating her. So it said it considered 
the account balance was hers, and it was holding her liable for it.
Mrs H didnt agree. Halifax wrote to her again on 18 August. It said that its fraud team had 
reviewed the case twice, and still didnt accept that it was a case of someone impersonating 
Mrs H. Halifax explained that three different colleagues had listened to the 11 May call 
where the applicant verified setting up the account, and to the 21 June call where Mrs H had 
phoned to claim shed been impersonated. Halifax said all three were sure it was the same 
person on both calls. So it repeated that it held Mrs H liable.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied, and in mid-October she contacted this service. She told us about her 
complaint, and also explained that she had mental health problems.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She explained that shed contacted the 
bank from which the direct debit had been set up, and it said it was Mrs Hs account. The 
investigator said it wasnt likely that a third party would have set up a direct debit from Mrs 
Hs account, as it could alert her to what had happened.
The investigator listened to the call recordings where the account was verified and online 
banking set up, and when Mrs H rang Halifax to say she hadnt opened the account. She 
said she believed that those calls, and the call when shed spoken to Mrs H herself, had all 
been from the same person.
The investigator also said that the card and PIN had been sent out, in separate envelopes, 
to Mrs Hs registered address. Mrs H said the mail boxes were in a communal area, though 
they were only accessed by a key. Mrs H told our investigator that an employee in the office 
had told her they held her key, but later said they didnt. But the investigator didnt think it 
likely that a third party had gained all Mrs Hs personal details, and her current account 
details, as well as being able to access her mail twice. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied. She authorised her daughter to represent her, and said this was 
having a huge impact on her mental health. 
Mrs Hs daughter said the voices on the recordings were nothing like her mother. She said 
Mrs H and her family believed it was someone in the same housing block whod have 
accessed her mail to obtain the personal information. She said something similar had 
happened to another lady in the block. Mrs Hs daughter also said that her mother had called 
the police about this, who had visited and spoken to the people who work in the building, but 
they hadnt taken it further. 
Mrs Hs daughter said her mother had been struggling financially and had needed help for 
the most basic food and toiletries. She said the evidence should include the IP address as 
that should indicate it wasnt the same person, and her mothers middle name was incorrect.
Mrs Hs daughter sent us three call recordings of other calls, which she said showed three 
people: the fraudster, her mother, and herself. But the investigator still thought that the 
person recorded as opening the account, and reporting the account as fraudulent, were the 
same person. Mrs H, represented by her daughter, asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whoever applied for the account knew Mrs Hs personal details, to use them to set up the 
account, and to answer security questions about them. The applicant was also familiar with 
the area around her home, so they could answer detailed questions as part of Halifaxs 
security questions. I recognise that Mrs H says she believes it was a fraudster from her 
block, so theyd know the area. But as Mrs H told us she hadnt shared her personal details, 
I dont see how any fraudster would have known either her personal information, or, in 
particular, her external bank details.
Mrs Hs daughter has said that her mothers middle name is different from that on the 
application. Ive looked at this, and can see that the middle name on the application is 
different from what Mrs Hs daughter says it is - but its only the last letter of the name. I dont 
consider this is enough to indicate that Mrs H didnt open the account.
Similarly, a different mobile number was used to make the complaint from that to confirm the 
account set-up. But many people have access to more than one mobile, so I dont find thats definitive either. And as Mrs H believes it was someone in the same block who carried out a 
fraud, the IP address would have been nearby anyway.
Importantly, Ive taken into account the pattern of normal fraudster behaviour. Its most 
unlikely that any fraudster would set up a direct debit to pay a credit card theyd set up. They 
wouldnt be at all concerned about paying off the debt. Using the genuine bank account 
would only alert the account holder more quickly  so I dont think any fraudster would do 
that.
And if a fraudster had obtained Mrs Hs bank details, I think its more likely theyd have 
attempted a fraud against that bank account too  not use it to attempt to pay off money 
theyd stolen on the card.
Typically, a fraudster would spend up to the maximum in a very short time indeed  within a 
day or so. Here, the spend took place between 17 May and 21 June. And some of the 
transactions were small, for example £4.20 at a bakery and £11.50 at a fish shop. This isnt 
typical of how a fraudster would spend.
Ive also considered the postal communications which Halifax sent out. It sent a number of 
items to Mrs Hs genuine address. These included among others the card; the PIN; and 
letters from Halifaxs collections team. Mrs H said she didnt receive the card or PIN, but she 
did receive some other letters, for example about missed payments. She had an external 
mailbox, but it had a key. There was some doubt about whether her accommodation 
management team had a copy of that key. But even if a third party did obtain access to Mrs 
Hs mailbox, letters containing cards and PINs are sent in anonymous envelopes, not 
labelled with what they are. Its unlikely that a third party would have known to steal the 
letters containing the card and PIN, but not the letters about collecting the outstanding 
balance. 
Finally, Ive listened to the disputed phone recordings. Mrs Hs daughter has sent in extra 
calls, but the ones which matter are the calls on 11 May by the person who confirmed the 
account set up, and the call on 21 June by the person who reported the card as fraudulent. 
Mrs H says she made the second call but not the first. Having listened to these calls, I 
consider its likely that the same person made both calls.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mrs H opened 
the credit card herself.  So Halifax doesnt have to refund her for the transactions..
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman