DRN-2711812
The complaint
Mr J complains that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed 
by Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle or 
for the cost of repairs to be covered. 
What happened
Mr J tells us that he acquired the vehicle in April 2019 from a dealer Ill refer to as AP. At 
the time he says the vehicle was eight years old with around 90,000 miles on the odometer. 
He states that as the dealership was not local to him, he was sent a text with a picture of the 
vehicle which he says looked immaculate. Mr J explains that the vehicle was delivered at 
night and so it was difficult to inspect at the time. But he says he notified AP the next day 
after hed seen numerous faults. A few weeks later he said the vehicle started to pull 
dramatically. And he says hes also reported that the vehicle shuddered and more recently 
that the convertible roof stopped working.
Mr J says that AP had initially agreed to rectify the problems when hed first reported them. 
But when he took up the further issues, hed been told that these were wear and tear. Mr J 
says he obtained an independent engineers report from E, a qualified vehicle technician. 
And that this report had identified numerous faults with the vehicle. And that an estimate of 
the cost of repairs at £4,510 has also been provided by a business Ill refer to as K. 
Moneybarn said it considered the issues raised to be cosmetic and due to fair wear and tear. 
Which was to be expected with a vehicle of this age and mileage.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 February 2021. I said that I was 
minded to partly uphold the complaint. I found that whilst some of the faults could be fairly 
considered to be cosmetic  including some scratches and dents  others could not. This 
included a defective fog lamp; misalignment of panels; missing suspension cover; and the 
vehicle pulling in the manner described in the independent report. I provisionally found that a 
price reduction of £2,000 should be applied.
Both parties have replied to my provisional view. Mr J said he didnt think the suggested 
level of award was fair as the vehicle would cost more than this to repair. Moneybarn 
expressed its disappointment that I intended to uphold the complaint. But it said that if the 
award was upheld it should be credited against the arrears which had accrued and which 
amounted to over £2,500.
I thank both parties for their responses, but in the absence of any new material information 
Im not minded to change my provisional decision in terms of partly upholding the complaint. 
This is largely repeated in my final decision set out below. But I do acknowledge that it would 
be fair and reasonable to apply any compensation award to reducing the arrears.
If Mr J had put the monthly instalments that havent been paid towards the repairs, I could 
have seen the justification for directly refunding those costs to him. But in these 
circumstances, I think its fairer to apply them so as to reduce the outstanding balance owed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr J would be disappointed with the issues he found with this vehicle. With 
high mileage, used vehicles such as this it wouldnt be expected that it would be supplied in 
the same condition as a brand new vehicle. So some bodywork wear and tear might 
reasonably be expected.
Mr Js conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). And the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability. Goods must also be as described or match any sample used. So where a 
photograph is used this must accurately depict a fair image of the goods and not create a 
false impression.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
The CPUTR requires the consumer to be provided with sufficient information about the 
goods which the average consumer would wish to know in order to reach an informed 
decision.
Ive seen a Pre-sales inspection document prepared by AP which purports to show a list of 
components that were inspected immediately prior to supply and which are reported to be in 
OK condition.
Mr J states that he saw the vehicle advertised and was sent a photograph by text prior to his 
agreeing to acquire the vehicle. Ive not seen this photograph within the text but Ive seen 
photographs of the vehicles condition which I understand were taken at the time of the 
inspection by E.
Ive read the inspection report from E. The report was dated 19 May 2019 so was within four 
weeks of the date of supply.
The findings were as follows:
 The Nearside front inner arch guard is out of alignment;
 The Nearside front wing is misaligned against the bonnet, the Nearside front door and front 
bumper;
 The nearside sill panel is damaged;
 There is severe stone lashing to the bonnet and front bumper; There is evidence of poor finish to the front bumper;
 The front grill is broken on the nearside;
 The Nearside front fog/driving lamb is defective;
 The Nearside front suspension top mounting cover is missing;
 The offside rear quarter panel is dented and scratched in 2 places;
 The rear bumper is scratched on both corners and in the centre section;
 The Nearside rear quarter panel has small sinkage type holes present;
 All 4 alloy wheels damaged;
 Vehicle pulling to the right-hand side of the road.
I can see that Es report also identifies issues with a defective fog light and suspension 
cover, both of which were said to be OK on the pre- sale inspection list.
As Mr J acquired the car without having first examined it at first hand, its reasonable that he 
didnt observe all the issues with the vehicle until after it had been delivered. Unfortunately, 
neither party has been able to supply an advertisement so Im unable to say in what terms 
the vehicle was described. But I infer that the numerous defects identified by E were not fully 
depicted in the advertisement photograph  not least as some were beneath the bonnet. And 
others would not have been apparent unless the vehicle was photographed from several 
angles.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive reached the view that some aspects of the damage can, viewed separately, fairly be 
described as cosmetic. This includes scratches and dents which dont compromise safety. 
But thats not a phrase which overall sits easily with a vehicle costing £8,000, requiring more 
than half that amount in repairs so soon after supply.
Some of the other faults were, in my opinion, sufficiently serious as to render the vehicle not 
to conform to contract at the point of supply. This includes defective fog lamp; suspension 
cover missing; misalignment of panels; vehicle pulling as described by the independent 
report. And the overall condition of the vehicle is not one which the reasonable person would 
consider to be of satisfactory quality. 
Ive also concluded that Mr J wasnt given all the information  about the general condition of 
the vehicle - that the average customer would require to make an informed decision on 
whether to acquire goods as is required by the CPUTR.
The estimate for repairs is split into two elements which consist of £2,160 labour and £1,599 
parts and materials (plus VAT in both cases). Not all the individual components which need 
attention are individually priced.
Where goods which arent of satisfactory quality are not rejected within the first 30 days of 
supply the dealer / supplier has the opportunity to repair them. And to restore them to a 
condition so that they do comply to contract, before a further right to reject arises.Usually, Id expect any repairs to be arranged through the dealers. But Im told that AP is no 
longer trading so it cant do the repairs. That is also likely to impact the cost of repairs. AP, 
as the original dealer, would have been expected to make good the defects without cost to 
Mr J or Moneybarn. Whereas any party undertaking the repairs now would presumably do so 
on commercial terms.
I infer that the parts quoted in Ks estimate would be new and that the standard of paintwork 
after repairs would actually restore the vehicle to a better condition than the average vehicle 
of this age and mileage.
Where repairs are the appropriate remedy for goods that were in used condition at the time 
of supply, the supplier is only required to return the goods to a condition so that they conform 
to contract. In other words, satisfactory quality would be assessed on the same basis as 
when the goods were acquired. The supplier is not required to restore them back to new or 
to factory standard. So I think the proposed standard and cost of repairs would lead to 
betterment. Given this was a used, high mileage vehicle, I dont think it would be reasonable 
to expect the vehicle to be repaired to the high standard proposed. 
Assessing a fair award in these circumstances is not an exercise in precision. But taking into 
account the cost of materials and labour, I think that a contribution of £2,000 is fair and 
reasonable. The amount reflects my findings that not all the quoted repairs were for items 
which would have made the vehicle not conform to contract at the time of supply.
Ive now to consider what is a fair and reasonable means by which the redress should be put 
into effect. And as AP isnt trading any longer that creates an additional problem.
The vehicle passed an MOT in November 2020 with an odometer reading of 97,303 miles. 
And Mr J has supplied a more recent photograph of the mileage which shows an odometer 
reading of 97,532 miles in February 2021. So there are seemingly no longer any safety 
issues with the vehicle, and Mr J is able to use it.
But Ive become aware that there are substantial arrears on the agreement. Although Im not 
sure why these have accrued. Moneybarn is entitled to receive payments for fair use  even 
if goods dont fully conform to contract. And rather than ask Moneybarn to pay directly for the 
quoted repairs I think the fairest outcome is to apply the amount I intend to award to reduce 
the arrears. 
This also might have some additional benefit to Mr J in that the arrears figure recorded on 
his credit file will be substantially reduced.
It doesnt form part of this complaint but Id encourage Mr J to contact Moneybarn to see 
what arrangements might be appropriate to deal with the remaining arrears and ongoing 
payments. 
Putting things right
 Moneybarn No.1 Limited should take the following action:
1. Credit Mr Js account in respect of the financial agreement with £2,000 to reflect the cost    
of repairs;
2. Pay £100 to Mr J for distress and inconvenience;  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is Im upholding the complaint in part. I 
require Moneybarn No.1 Limited to take the action stipulated in the preceding section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman