The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Legal & General Assurance Society Limited. She is unhappy 
about the way it handled a payment to her from her late husbands pension.
What happened
On 6 February 2018 L&G wrote to Mrs M setting out some options that were available to her 
to receive money from her late husbands pension. Essentially, she could choose to receive 
a monthly payment for life or take a one-off lump sum payment.
Mrs M responded and L&G received her payment instruction on 27 March 2018. She had 
chosen a one-off payment. L&G acknowledged this in a letter dated 29 March 2018 and said 
that it would be making the lump sum payment in the next couple of days.
The Easter weekend fell between 30 March and 2 April inclusive. L&G authorised the 
payment on 5 April. HMRC didnt receive notification until two working days later, 9 April. 
This meant that the payment to Mrs M fell into the 2018/19 tax year and not into 2017/2018. 
She says that she would have been liable to pay less tax if the payment had been made in 
the earlier year due to her personal circumstances.
On 12 April 2018, Mrs Ms representative spoke with L&G. He recalls that he was told that 
Mrs M may be able to change her decision and take the monthly payment instead. 
On 20 February 2019 Mr Ms representative called back to say that Mrs M did want to switch 
to a monthly payment. He was told that this was no longer possible due to the time that had 
elapsed since the payment was made.
A complaint was raised with L&G. It didnt uphold the complaint and so it was referred to this 
service where it was considered by an investigator. He didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said;
Mrs M didnt make L&G aware of her tax situation when requesting the lump sum
payment.
She had left the request relatively late considering she wanted the payment to be
made during that financial year.
Whilst L&Gs letter was unclear as it failed to mention working days, L&G didnt delay
the payment.
Whilst Mrs M was offered the chance to switch to monthly payments, there was no
requirement that L&G should do that, and it wasnt acting unreasonably when it
declined to do so eight months later.
DRN-1951859Mrs Ms representative responded and said that;
It had taken L&G a year to respond to the complaint.
The letter was 100 per cent crystal clear that payment would be made within two 
days.
His recollection was that he was told that there was no time limit on a decision to 
switch to monthly payments.
 
The investigator didnt change his view. He said it appeared a formal complaint had only 
been raised in February 2019 and a complaint could have been referred to this service after 
eight weeks if L&G hadnt replied. He also confirmed that he had asked for a call recording 
of the call from April 2018 but L&G said none was available.
Mrs Ms representative pointed out that it was L&G that had offered the switch to monthly 
payment, it hadn't put any timescale on this and it had said that calls were recorded.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence, Ive decided that I agree with the investigator and with his 
reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
L&G had no reason to understand there was any need for extra urgency in making this 
payment. There is no suggestion that it was told that it needed to be paid and confirmed to 
HMRC before the end of the tax year.
I dont agree that its letter of 29 March 2018 was crystal clear. I think the statement 'in the 
next couple of days is vague. Its not clear that this means calendar days or working days. 
Whilst a couple can mean two in many contexts, it can sometimes mean an indefinite 
small number.
I dont think the letter could reasonably be understood to be giving an assurance that the 
payment would be made, received, and confirmed to HMRC within two days.
I appreciate that this must have been a difficult time for Mrs M, so soon after the loss of her 
husband, but she could have responded to L&G sooner, or made her requirements clearer, if 
the timing of the payment was critical.
L&G did offer the chance for Mrs M to change her decision and take a monthly pension 
instead. When Mrs M tried to accept this offer eight months later she was told that it wasnt, 
or was no longer, an option.
There is no call recording available of the call in April 2018 when the offer was made. The 
notes of the call confirm that the offer was made, but doesnt mention any deadline (or that 
there was no deadline) to accept.
I dont know exactly what was said in this call in April 2018. But I agree that L&G wasnt 
under any obligation to offer this switch. I dont think it was acting unreasonably when it 
wouldnt agree the change eight months later. I doubt the L&G representative would have 
said there was no deadline to make the change, or words to that effect. That would have left things completely open-ended. I can imagine that they may not have stated any actual 
deadline, but that may well have been in the context that the expectation was that Mrs Ms 
representative would speak with her and respond as soon as she had made a decision, 
possibly in a matter of days, possibly a week or two, but not eight months later.
However, fundamentally, L&G wasnt obliged to offer a change and in my view it wasnt 
being unreasonable when it declined to do so in February 2019. 
It may be that there is no call recording available. But as the investigator has said, the 
recording may no longer exist, the call was over two years ago and recordings like this are 
not kept indefinitely.
So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman