The complaint
Mr B says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr B has told us he was vulnerable and desperate at the time of the borrowing, and he 
financially overreached himself. He says the lending has caused him hardship and 
stress.        
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr B between August 
and November 2015. Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 10/08/2015 25/08/2015 5 £350.00 £173.60
2 02/09/2015 29/09/2015 4 £320.00 £192.64
3 02/11/2015 15/02/2016 3 £400.00 £274.13
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They thought there was nothing in the 
information given by Mr B or obtained by Mr Lender that would have given it cause for 
concern in order for it to carry out additional checks on Mr Bs financial circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed and made several points about his financial circumstances, his pattern of 
borrowing and the checks carried out by Mr Lender. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1740821the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said by him taking three loans showed the lending 
was unaffordable and Mr Lender shouldnt have allowed him to take the loans. He also said 
he had loans with five other short-term credit providers at the same time so Mr Lender 
cannot have sufficiently checked his financial background. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should first say that Ive noted Mr Bs comments around the fact he was able to have three 
rollover loans and what he has said about the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules 
and guidelines said about this facility. However, the rules laid out by the FCA are different 
from what Mr Bs understanding is  and are about a different product facility. 
But that doesnt mean a lender was able to give Mr B an unlimited number of loans  they 
had to be affordable and if multiple loans were given, we have to take into consideration 
whether this was a sign of financial difficulty. But in this case, as there were only three instalment loans, I dont think it had yet reached the stage where Mr Lender needed to be 
concerned.
Mr B has referred to the lending as payday loans. But these were instalment loans due to be 
repaid over several months (five, four and three months respectively) under the terms 
agreed at the outset of the lending. However, I note loans one and two were repaid early but 
this doesnt mean they were payday loans. They were set-up as instalment loans to be 
repaid over several months. 
Mr Lender has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It asked Mr B about this monthly income and expenditure before each of the 
loans. Mr B declared his monthly income to be £1,200 for all the loans and his expenditure 
was recorded as being between £585 and £700. Mr Lender also took into consideration the 
other short-term lending Mr B made it aware of and the repayments he was making on those 
loans. 
Mr Lender has also given us the results of its credit checks which showed there werent any 
recent adverse entries like evidence of IVAs or bankruptcy. Mr Lender also asked Mr B 
whether he was in an IVA, was bankrupt or in a debt management plan. 
Taking the above into account, I think on a pounds and pence basis the lending would 
appear affordable. And as Ive said above, in the early stage of a lending relationship  
which these three loans were  I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. I dont think there was anything in the information Mr B provided Mr Lender 
which would have caused it enough of a concern to think that he might be having problems 
managing his money or that it should look further into his financial circumstances. 
Of course, its possible the information Mr B declared to Mr Lender at the time of the loans  
or the information it had gathered  may not have been an accurate reflection of his financial 
circumstances. Mr B has told us of other loans he had at the time and while Mr Lender has 
told us it took other loan repayments Mr B had made it aware of into account in its monthly 
expenditure record, it may be that these loans, or others, werent recorded in the credit 
report that Mr Lender relied upon. 
But in these circumstances, I dont think Mr Lender needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr B for further evidence about his income and 
outgoings which Mr Lender could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any 
bills, as examples. Mr Lender could only make a decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. That information  and the fact the loans were at the beginning of the 
lending relationship  doesn't lead me to the conclusion there was a greater risk of the loans 
being unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr B. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr 
Lender to have agreed to give Mr B the three loans.
I know Mr B will be extremely disappointed with the outcome Ive reached. I know he feels 
strongly about his complaint and has spent time and effort in bringing it to us. But I hope Ive 
been able to explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21August2020.Catherine Langley
Ombudsman