DRN-3181302
The complaint
Ms M and Mr R are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded them in full for the 
money they lost when they fell victims to a scam. 
What happened
In July 2020, Ms M and Mr R fell victims to a scam where they were contacted by fraudsters, 
who had intercepted emails from their genuine solicitor, regarding the payment for a house 
purchase. As a result, Ms M and Mr R unknowingly sent the money to a fraudster.
Ms M and Mr R were in regular contact with their genuine solicitor in the weeks leading up to 
the transfer, by phone and email, and all parties had agreed to exchange contracts shortly. 
Mr R received an email, on 29 July 2020 as anticipated, with new account details attached to 
send the £150,000 to. Ms M and Mr R had previously paid £400 to the genuine solicitor (for 
initial fees) the previous month, but this payment was made to different account details. 
Unknown to them at the time, Ms M and Mr R sent four payments, totalling £150,000 to an 
account that was controlled by fraudsters, who had intercepted email communications 
between Mr R and their solicitor. 
Ms M and Mr R said they didnt question the different account details and a different account 
name as they believed the emails to be genuine, they hadnt been warned of scams of this 
nature, and they were under a lot of stress at the time of the payments. And the scammers 
had presented the different account details as a client care account for the house deposit 
funds.
Mr R used mobile banking to send the four payments totalling £150,000. Three on 31 July 
2020 (one amount of £40,000 and two amounts of £50,000) and a fourth payment of 
£10,000 on 1 August 2020. The fourth payment was picked up by Barclays fraud detection 
systems and identified as requiring further checks. Its records show Mr R called and spoke 
with a member of staff about the payment, and following this call, the bank released it to the 
beneficiary. (Ill refer back to this call later in the decision, but Barclays later acknowledge it 
ought to have done more during this call to have identified and prevented the scam.) 
At the time of the payments Barclays says Mr R was presented with the following warnings
Buying Goods
Could this be a scam?
Make sure you give yourself time to think about the goods you are buying and 
whether they are genuine, or if the deal sounds too good to be true.
Remember that payment by bank transfer wont give you the same protections as 
using your debit or credit card.
and
House or large purchase
Could this be a scam?
Fraudsters know how to intercept emails and messages and alter account details. 
For example, if you have previously paid your solicitor, make sure the account details 
havent changed. 
We recommend that you check the details of where youre sending the money in 
person.
We asked Mr R what he thought about the warnings. He said, now looking back and trying to 
remember the payments he doesnt recall the warnings.
Ms M and Mr R discovered theyd been the victim of a scam when Mr R had a conversation 
over the telephone with their genuine solicitor, a few weeks later, when the solicitor hadnt 
heard from them. Mr R contacted Barclays the same day to explain what had happened and 
asked it to refund the £150,000. 
Barclays didnt think it was responsible for their loss. It considered Ms M and Mr Rs fraud 
claim under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, 
of which it is a signatory. This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been 
the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. In response 
to Ms M and Mr Rs complaint, Barclays said it didnt think it was responsible for refunding 
the full £150,000 under the terms of the CRM code. It said the following:
Before proceeding with any payments, Ms M and Mr R must take steps to satisfy the 
person they are paying is genuine (a requirement under the Code). Its investigation 
indicated that Ms M and Mr R didnt do so on this occasion. 
When making the mobile payments, it provided relevant warnings to Mr R, but he 
was still happy to proceed with the payments (the bank providing effective warnings 
is another requirement under the Code).
When it discovered that Ms M and Mr R had been the victim of a scam, it contacted 
the beneficiary bank straight away, to see if any of the money remained in the 
beneficiary account. Unfortunately, it had all been removed by the fraudster. 
It was willing to refund Ms M and Mr R 50% of the fraudulent transfers under the 
CRM, and £75,000 was paid back to them on 16 December 2020. Barclays didnt 
provide detailed reasons at the time for this decision.
Its customer service fell below its expectations and it wasnt able to manage Ms M 
and Mr Rs affairs in a professional and efficient manner. It paid £350 compensation 
as an apology for this. 
Ms M and Mr R didnt accept Barclayss conclusions and referred their complaint to our 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators.   
The investigator was persuaded that Barclays should refund Ms M and Mr R the remaining 
£75,000, plus interest. She said the bank hadnt provided Mr R with an effective warning that 
was impactful in the specific circumstances. And, she believed that Ms M and Mr R had 
made the payments with a reasonable basis for believing that they were dealing with their 
genuine solicitor. She noted that Mr R had spoken with them a few days before making the 
payment, and that the intercepted emails were identical in format and tone to those of the 
genuine emails. Barclays disagreed with our investigator. It said, in summary:
It accepted the warnings, provided to Mr R when he made the payments, did not 
explain the consequences of what would happen by making the payments, but the 
rest of the warning was effective and highly specific to the circumstances which Mr R 
chose not to take into consideration.
Therefore, it questioned whether Mr R wouldve taken any wording, regarding the 
consequences, into account as well.  
Barclayss response didnt persuade our investigator to change her opinion. So as an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Theres no dispute that Ms M and Mr R fell victims to an email intercept scam. Theyve lost a 
large amount of money when making their first house purchase together. Such a key 
purchase should be a positive time in anyones life, and I was sorry to hear that instead, Ms 
M and Mr R were targeted by fraudsters. This cant have been easy for them at all. 
Warnings
Ive started by considering that the CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam 
risks, they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met this standard or not should include consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to 
understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. As a minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. 
The evidence of warnings Barclays provided to Ms M and Mr R at the time of making the 
payments is limited. But the bank says Mr R selected the payment options of Buying Goods 
as well as House or large purchase when making the four payments using Barclays mobile 
banking. 
Barclays hasnt been clear about which warnings were presented at each transaction, so Ive 
considered both.  And I dont find that these warnings meet the Codes standards for firms, 
which sets out what an effective warning should look like. 
If presented with the Buying goods warning - then Im not satisfied this meets the 
requirements of firms to provide an effective warning. It isnt specific to Ms M and Mr Rs 
circumstances, they arent buying goods where they need to be sure they are genuine and 
making payment by other means wasnt option for them here. So, I dont think it wouldve 
been unreasonable for Mr R to have continued with the payment having seen this warning. It 
also doesnt meet all the requirements for an effective warning, including the risks of 
proceeding, which Barclays appear to have recognised.If presented with the House or large purchase wording I accept that the warning does give 
some advice on what Mr R might have done to avoid the scam. Barclays has said that whilst 
the warning doesnt explain the consequences of making the payment, the rest of it is highly 
specific in the circumstances. Ive thought carefully about this, and I appreciate that the 
warning does explain about emails being intercepted. But I dont think the warning goes far 
enough to make the risk really obvious to customers. It doesnt bring to life what this type of 
scam looks like, nor does it talk about the prevalence of this type of scam or explain how 
sophisticated the scams can be. For example  it doesnt explain that fraudsters emails 
appear to come from the same address as the account theyve hacked, that they can 
communicate with their victim on a genuine chain of emails, that fraudulent emails are 
usually received when a payment request is expected or that fraudsters emails can seem 
genuine and look the same or very similar to the persons theyre impersonating. The 
warning also doesnt clearly set out the consequences of not taking the suggested steps in 
the warning. For example, setting out that the transaction will be irrevocable, and that if it 
proves not to be legitimate this will likely mean the funds cannot be recovered. And whilst 
the warning says to check the details in person it doesnt explain how to do this or that 
emails with the details cant always be trusted for this purpose either.
Mr R had paid the solicitors £400 the previous month for initial fees, which is relevant here 
as the warning does say to check the account details havent changed as well. But, I think 
Ms M and Mr R were reasonable in their belief that they were dealing with their genuine 
solicitor, and whilst the warning does highlight the possibility of emails being intercepted, I 
dont think its impactful enough here to make Mr R believe that this is what had happened to 
the emails hed received. This is taking into consideration the identical format and tone of the 
emails, with only one very small discrepancy. 
And when questioned by our investigator as to why he didnt question the change in account 
details, Mr R said he was persuaded by the scammers email that said they would forward 
the account details to him for the client care account for the funds to be deposited on 
exchange.  Considering that previously, hed only paid his solicitor for initial fees, and the 
disputed payments werent for a service but for the actual purchase deposit, I can see why 
Mr R was persuaded by the explanation as to why different  payment details and payee 
name had been provided.  
And, Ive given weight to the fact that Ms M and Mr R were first time buyers, who hadnt 
been through the process of purchasing a house before so their knowledge around fees and 
payment would have been understandably limited. This process involves paying various 
payees for a number of reasons, and so on that basis, I can see why Mr R didnt question 
the fact the account details were different  as the warning suggests.
The warning also doesnt explain how to go about checking the account details. So even if 
Mr R had checked the account details, by emailing back the scammer (thinking it was the 
genuine solicitor), in my experience its very likely the scammer would have provided a 
convincing reason for the different account details and account name. And they had already 
been told they were paying funds to a client care account which sounded plausible in the 
circumstances.
Taking all the above into account I dont agree that Barclays can say a more detailed 
warning wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Rs actions in the moment. Although Mr R 
doesnt now recall the warning, Im not persuaded that there is enough to say he wouldnt 
have proceeded with caution (given the value and type of transaction he was making) if the 
consequences of making the payment and more detail about how to protect himself from 
scams, had been presented to him. So overall, Im not satisfied Barclays warning met the requisite criteria here. Overall, I dont 
consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined by the CRM Code. It follows 
that Barclays has not established it can fairly apply the exception to reimbursement relating 
to ignoring an effective warning.
Did Mr R have a reasonable basis of belief when making the payments?
Ive no doubt that at the time of making the payments, Mr R believed that he was paying his 
genuine solicitor. Im not satisfied he wouldve gone ahead if this wasnt the case. However, I 
need to consider whether that belief was reasonable, taking into account all of the 
circumstances. 
Ms M and Mr R have sent us copies of the correspondence they received from the fraudster 
impersonating their solicitor. I agree with our investigator that the emails were identical in 
format and tone to those of the genuine emails, the scammers even continue to discuss the 
details of the house purchase in a manner which implies detailed knowledge of the events 
and Ms M and Mr Rs circumstances.  There is one small difference - the email address was 
missing one letter from the name of the solicitors firm. With everything else being so similar, 
I can see why Ms M and Mr R wouldnt have noticed this small discrepancy. I dont think the 
difference is enough that it ought to have aroused any suspicions that anything untoward 
was happening.  Mr R also says that he received and viewed the emails on his mobile and 
this didnt show the full details of the email, making it harder to spot the difference in email 
address. 
Ms M and Mr R were expecting to receive an email from their genuine solicitors at around 
the time that the scam email was sent to them. Therefore, I think the timing of the email 
plays into Ms M and Mr Rs basis for believing the email was genuine. I also understand Mr 
R was in communication with their solicitor by telephone days before the email was received, 
and had been told that the exchange date was imminent, and hed receive a request for 
payment by email. So, taking all of this into consideration, Im satisifed, Ms M and Mr R were 
reasonable in their belief that they were making payment to their genuine solicitors when 
they received the email with the instructions to make the payment. 
And Ive also already covered why I think it was reasonable for Mr R to proceed with the 
payment even when presented with different account details and account name. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Barclays has been able to establish that 
when Ms M and Mr R sent the payments they did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Barclays intervention with the fourth payment
Ive found it difficult to follow exactly why Barclays made the decision that it did to refund half 
of Ms M and Mr Rs losses.  But Barclays appears to have agreed to refund £75,000 to Ms M 
and Mr R as its fraud detection systems picked up on the fourth payment Mr R made to the 
scammers for £10,000 and prevented it from going through. Mr R then called Barclays the 
following day to confirm the payment was genuine and it was released. Barclays says it 
failed to question Mr R about the purpose of the payment and therefore missed an 
opportunity to prevent Mr R from falling further victim to the scam. As such, it refunded 50% 
of Ms M and Mr Rs overall loss. Barclays later added that it also wasnt willing to refund 
anything further as it thinks an effective warning wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Rs 
actions and that Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for making the payments 
(points I have addressed above).Ill also refer now back to the call Barclays had with Mr R when he made the fourth payment 
of £10,000. Mr R explains the purpose of the payment and the previous payments hed 
made as part of the house purchase. Mr R is asked if he had made payments to this payee 
before and Mr R explains the three previous payments hed made (as part of the deposit for 
the house). The Barclays call handler asks if hes happy with that company and if hed 
checked them out. Mr R says he is. No further questions are asked about how Mr R has 
obtained the account details etc. Mr R thinks the payment is stopped because of the daily 
transfer amount. The Barclays call handler confirms the payment was stopped and then 
reads a scam script covering safe account and goods and service scams. The call handler 
asks if the house exists and if Mr R is happy with it. Finally the call handler checks that Mr R 
knows the bank the account is held at. 
Having listened to this call Im persuaded further and tailored questioning wouldve resulted 
in Mr R explaining the events surrounding the payments and the context of the emails and 
new account details.  So having thought about this call and the taking into account good 
industry practice at the time I think Barclays ought to have taken further steps and asked 
more detailed questions and if it had I think more likely than not it would have prevented the 
scam. 
But I think the first transaction was one that ought to have given Barclays concern that Ms M 
and Mr R might be at risk of financial harm, given its size and that it was to a new payee. So 
I think Barclays ought to have intervened at this point rather than at the point of the fourth 
transaction. But as Im upholding this complaint under the provisions of the CRM code this 
additional finding only impacts the date interest should be awarded from, which I have set 
out below.  
Customer service
Barclays recognised that its customer service fell below its expected standards when dealing 
with Ms M and Mr Rs fraud claim. It took longer for its fraud team to review the claim and 
provide its answer, and paid £350 by way of an apology for this. 
I appreciate that Ms M and Mr R wouldve been very upset to discover that theyd been the 
victim of a scam at such an important time in their lives. Theyve told us about their personal 
circumstances that I accept wouldve heightened their overall stress levels, and delays from 
Barclays in relation to their fraud claim wouldve only increased this. 
But overall, I think the £350 Barclays has already offered to cover the trouble and upset 
caused by its delays with Ms M and Mr Rs fraud claim is fair and reasonable, and I wont be 
asking it to increase this award. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays should:
Pay Ms M and Mr R the remaining £75,000 of their losses,
Pay Ms M and Mr R 8% simple interest on the above amount, from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms M and Mr R 8% simple interest on the original £75,000 it refunded from the 
date those funds were paid to the date the settlement was made.
Barclays has already paid £350 compensation to Ms M and Mr R. I think this is fair 
and reasonable and I wont be asking Barclays to increase this amount.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Ms M and Mr Rs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman