DRN-1563281
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as C&G Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs J took out a joint mortgage in 1980. 
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1988 when Mr and Mrs J were applying for 
some further borrowing on their mortgage account. The PPI protected their total mortgage 
repayments in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
To briefly summarise, Mr and Mrs J mainly complain that the PPI was added without their 
knowledge or consent and they say that they didn't know about it until recently. They also 
told us that if PPI had been mentioned or offered to them they would've certainly declined 
the policy as it wasnt something they ever needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint. 
Ideally, Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. But Lloyds hasnt been able to provide anything 
signed by Mr and Mrs J to show how they agreed to take out PPI. I dont think thats 
surprising. I wouldnt expect Lloyds (or C&G) or Mr and Mrs J to have kept these records for 
so long. 
A financial business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. When personal private 
information is no longer likely to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out 
rules about this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers private details secure. 
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs J feel frustrated by the lack of paperwork. But the fact that 
Lloyds cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. And whilst I don't doubt that Mr and Mrs J are certain about what theyve told us, it wouldnt 
be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs J might be able to recall about the sale after 
such a long time.   
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs J werent given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent. But 
I cant fairly say this based on the very limited information Ive got. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs J didnt take out PPI when their mortgage started  by the time they 
took out the policy their mortgage had already been running for some years without PPI. So 
at the time, I think that Mr and Mrs J would've understood that PPI wasnt required as part of 
their mortgage. But I can see why they mightve decided they did want to have the benefits it 
offered  especially when they were borrowing extra on their mortgage account. 
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment, still due to run for 
around 17 years or so when they took out the PPI. Mr and Mrs Js home wouldve been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a dependable means of 
ensuring their monthly repayments were protected even if they couldnt work. So, I can see 
why they mightve felt PPI was useful. Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs J 
mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. But on balance, I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs J decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out PPI. And it was added 
to their mortgage at their request.  
Our adjudicator said that Lloyds was unable to confirm the benefit split between 
Mr and Mrs J and assessed the case based on the fact that it covered them both. Ive taken 
a slightly different approach. Mr and Mrs J took out this borrowing in joint names when they 
were both in work but it looks to me like Mr J was most likely the main earner as theyve told 
us that Mrs J wasnt working full time. So, with no paperwork to show who had the PPI, 
I think the fairest way to assess their complaint is to look at it on the basis that Lloyds 
recommended PPI for Mr J. At the end of the day, this doesnt make any overall difference to 
the outcome of this complaint as I dont feel I've seen enough information to be able to 
uphold it. But I wanted to explain my reasons for the approach I've taken when thinking 
about whether the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs J.  
If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. So although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J are sure that PPI 
wasnt mentioned to them at all, looking at the complaint this way (as if Lloyds personally 
recommended the PPI) gives Mr and Mrs Js complaint the best chance of success. And 
given the lack of available information, I think thats the fairest way for me to approach this 
complaint. 
Looking at the likely policy terms which would've applied, Mr J was eligible for the policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mr J told us about his sick pay arrangements at work. But I cant 
reasonably say that Mr and Mrs J wouldnt have found PPI useful. It wouldve covered their 
mortgage repayments plus some extra and paid out on top of any sick pay benefits in full for 
longer - up to 12 months per claim if Mr J was too sick to work. This couldve been a useful 
benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr J needed to claim as Mr and Mrs J 
mightve had extra costs if he was ill or disabled.  
Ive noted that there was a possibility of Mr J being paid discretionary sick pay over and 
above this. But Im looking at Mr Js contractual entitlement  because thats all he could 
safely rely on. Hoping an employer might pay sick pay when it doesn't have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit in the event of a 
successful claim.
Also the policy wouldve paid out if he became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs J had some savings. But there can be no guarantee 
that they would always have savings to rely on if Mr J wasnt in work. Having PPI meant Mr 
and Mrs J could keep savings secure in the long term as they wouldnt have been forced to 
use this money to pay the mortgage if Mr J wasnt able to work. 
And, bearing in mind that it appears they didnt put all their available money towards keeping 
down the cost of borrowing, but instead chose to borrow extra on their mortgage account, it 
seems to me that Mr and Mrs J would've valued the protection PPI offered if it meant they 
could keep their savings intact to provide financial security.  
Looking at all the information Ive seen, and thinking about their circumstances, in my view 
the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if Mr J wouldve been 
affected by any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits as he was in full 
time employment and he had good health when he took out PPI. So, I dont think having 
more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take 
it out. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to them when they bought 
the policy. But I've seen nothing to suggest that the monthly premiums werent affordable for 
Mr and Mrs J when they started the policy  so thats not a reason for me to think they 
wouldve been put off taking it out. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I 
think Mr and Mrs J still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it 
looks like it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think better 
information wouldve put Mr and Mrs J off buying PPI. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs J have said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they feel 
strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint. Although Mr and Mrs J mentioned some other things during the course of this 
complaint I can see that our adjudicator has already responded on those issues. Theres 
nothing more I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. And I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
Looked at overall, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Mr and Mrs J lost out as a 
result of anything Lloyds did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Susan WebbOmbudsman