DRN-4224880
The complaint
Mr D, represented by Miss D, says that further checks should have taken place before he 
was allowed to spend large amounts by transferring money from his savings account to his 
current account.  
What happened
Mr D, who is a minor, had a Natwest savings account opened in his name and money was 
placed into this. In February 2022, Mr D opened a current account with NatWest. His 
application was co-signed by his parent. Miss D says that Mr D was pressured into having 
online/mobile banking. This was set up and Mr D was then able to see the amount of money 
he had in his savings account. Miss D says that without mobile banking he wouldnt have 
been aware of this. Mr D then made several transfers from his savings account to his current 
account and then spent the money. Miss D says that the accounts should have been 
monitored, that Mr D has learning difficulties, and he shouldnt have been able to move 
around £40,000 from his savings account.
NatWest said it had no record of Mr Ds learning difficulties and said that another holder of 
Mr Ds account could download the mobile app and make an account alert which could 
assist in monitoring the account usage. It said that certain transactions had been flagged by 
its security alerts but when contacted, Mr D had confirmed the transactions as genuine. It 
didnt accept that there had been any bank error in this case.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said there was no evidence that Mr D had 
been pressured into downloading the mobile application and that there was an option for 
Miss D to link her sons accounts to her online banking service to enable her to monitor his 
accounts. He said that NatWest systems had nothing recorded in regard to Mr Ds learning 
difficulties. He said that NatWest had a responsibility to monitor all transactions to assess 
whether there is unusual activity, but that Mr D was accessing and spending his money and 
it wasnt for the bank to say what he could and couldnt spend his money on.
Miss D, acting on behalf of Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. She didnt think 
that NatWest had acted with a duty of care in regard to Mr Ds accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the events that have given rise to this complaint, and I can appreciate 
how upsetting it is for Miss D that such a large amount of money has been able to be spent 
by her son. But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be able to say that NatWest 
had done something wrong, and, in this case, I do not find I can.
In February 2022, Mr D applied for a NatWest current account which came with a debit card. 
As Mr D was under 16 years old his application was co-signed by a parent. In this 
application Miss D has signed the section which states:
I acknowledge that the applicant named in section 1 (Mr D) is applying for an Adapt account 
and, if this application is successful, the applicant may be issued with a debit card which 
they can use to:
i. Withdraw cash at ATMs; and
ii. Pay for goods and services purchased from retailers or suppliers of services.
There is nothing to suggest that there were any issues with the account being set up or that 
Miss D wasnt aware that Mr D would have access to the funds in the account. The issue 
that has arisen is that Mr D transferred money from a savings account in his name into his 
current account. Miss D says Mr D was pressured into having the mobile / online banking 
application and when he got this, he became aware of the funds in the savings account that 
had been set up several years earlier.
While I understand the point Miss D has made, I have nothing to suggest that Mr D was 
pressured into having online/mobile banking. Also, as I understand the savings account was 
in Mr Ds name, I cannot say that NatWest did anything wrong by having this account listed 
in Mr Ds online set up. The savings account is an instant access account. We asked for 
further details about the savings account and NatWest said that transfers could be made to 
other accounts citing the following information Funds transfer available via online, mobile or 
telephony to another account held in the customers name held within the same brand. 
Further information was then provided which showed the account was opened in Mr Ds 
name and that he was the person with authority to give instruction on the account. 
Based on the above, I do not find that I can say NatWest did anything wrong by allowing 
Mr D to transfer money between his savings account and current account and then spend 
from his current account.
Miss D has said that NatWest had a duty of care in regard to the transactions being made. I 
agree that NatWest has a duty of care towards its customers and is required to have 
systems in place to protect against issues such as fraud. In this case certain transactions 
made by Mr D were flagged by NatWests security systems and Mr D was contacted about 
these. But as Mr D confirmed the transactions as genuine these were actioned. I note the 
comments Miss D has made about Mr Ds learning difficulties but as NatWest hadnt a 
record of these at the time, I do not find it was required to put any additional measures in 
place.
Overall, this is a very upsetting case, but I do not find I can say that NatWest did anything 
wrong. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman