DRN-2130811
The complaint
Ms J complains on behalf of her mother Mrs M that shes unable to refinance her agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.
What happened
In October 2015 Mrs M was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for 4 years.
The agreement included the option to either return the car at the end of the agreement or 
pay the optional purchase payment and keep the car.
Ms J (on behalf of Mrs M) says that at the time of purchase the retailer told her she could 
refinance the car at the end of the agreement.
Prior to the end of the term, Mrs M notified MBFS that she intended to keep the car. MBFS 
understood this to mean that Mrs M would be paying the optional purchase payment. Mrs M 
said this wasnt her intention and that she intended to refinance. MBS advised Mrs M that 
there was no option to refinance.
Mrs M complained to MBFS. In response, MBFS said the retailer wasnt able to provide 
information about the finance agreement and that there was no provision in the agreement to 
refinance. MBFS advised Mrs M that because her agreement had reached the end of the 
term, she would need to either hand the car back or pay the optional purchase payment.
Mrs M hasnt paid the optional purchase payment and hasnt handed the car back. She 
thinks she should be able to refinance the agreement. Shes moved to Spain and taken the 
car with her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was clear from the finance agreement 
that Mrs M had the option to either hand back the car or pay the optional purchase payment. 
He said there was no mention in the agreement that the optional purchase payment could be 
refinanced. He also said that by taking the car to Spain Mrs M had breached the agreement.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said shed been told by the retailer that she could refinance at the 
end of the term. She also said the retailer knew the car was being taken to Spain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is whether there has been a misrepresentation by the retailer. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter into a 
contract to his/her detriment. The untrue statement must be the main reason why the 
consumer entered into the contract.
Its clear that Mrs M (or her daughter) had discussions with the retailer prior to entering into 
the agreement. Theres no notes of what was discussed and because I wasnt there I cant 
be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the available 
contemporaneous evidence to decide whats most likely to have happened.
Mrs M has provided a video link to the retailer. She says the video makes reference to the 
change in refinance policy. Ive reviewed this but I dont think its relevant because it wasnt 
information which was provided to Mrs M at the point of supply, and it doesnt say that she 
can refinance at the end of the term.
Ive looked at the finance agreement, which is a document that came into existence at the 
point of supply. In my view, this is the best evidence of what was agreed between the 
parties. Theres nothing in the agreement that says the optional purchase payment can be 
refinanced at the end of the term. Also, I think its clear from the agreement that the only two 
options available to Mrs M at the end of the term were to hand the car back or pay the 
optional purchase payment.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the retailer made 
a misrepresentation. If Im wrong about that, and if the retailer did say something about 
refinancing to Mrs M, I dont think this statement was the main reason why Mrs M entered 
into the agreement.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the agreement was mis- sold. Because the 
agreement has now reached the end of the term, Mrs M must either hand the car back or 
pay the optional purchase payment. 
With regards to the car having been taken to Spain, Im of the view that this is a breach of 
the agreement. I can see that Mrs M (or her daughter) spoke to MBFS about taking the car 
to Spain in April 2018 and was advised that it wasnt permitted. Mrs M says the retailer told 
her she could take the car abroad. Again, whilst I dont doubt that Mrs M discussed this with 
the retailer, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the retailer told Mrs M at the 
point of supply that she could take the car to Spain, so I dont think theres been a 
misrepresentation here.
On balance, I think its clear from the agreement that the car cant be removed from the UK 
for more than 30 days. This was reiterated by MBFS when Mrs M made a specific enquiry 
about taking the car to Spain. So, I think Mrs M was aware that she was acting I breach of 
the agreement.
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to say that theres been a  
misrepresentation or that the agreement was mis- sold. I dont think MBFS has done 
anything wrong by asking Mrs M to return the car or pay the optional purchase payment 
because this is in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman