DRN-3868671
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about her car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) regarding repairs it 
completed to her car after it was damaged.
What happened
UKI repaired Mrs As car but she wasnt happy with what it did. She complained to us and 
UKI agreed to do further work. Following that work completing Mrs A had the car inspected 
by a bodyshop at a cost of £200. The bodyshop found further issues with the car  it said 
that there was a problem with the paintwork on the bonnet; that there was contamination 
below the base coat UKI had applied. UKI said that was being caused by bird droppings so it 
wouldnt assist Mrs A any further. Not unless, UKI said, Mrs A provided it with a report from 
an independent engineer determining the cause of the issue. Mrs A complained to us.
Both parties then presented further expert evidence. Mrs A obtained an engineers report 
dated 17 April 2022 which said poor preparation prior to painting had caused issues with the 
surface finish. UKI provided comments from an engineer and a report from a paint specialist. 
The engineer said he viewed the car on 15 and 17 December 2020 and the report was also 
dated 17 December 2020. A few weeks, UKI said, after the paintwork had been completed. 
UKIs report stated there were no issues with the completed work and that the car had been 
finished to a good standard. UKI said that any issues with the paintwork would have been 
visible by that time (given when the work was done) but none had been spotted during the 
inspections. Mrs A said her expert said the problem wouldnt have been noticeable by then. 
She said she would send further details to evidence this, but none were received. 
The complaint was considered by one of our Investigators. He initially felt UKI was likely 
responsible for the problem with the bonnet. But UKI challenged that view and presented the 
report referenced above from the paint specialist. Upon review our Investigator wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. 
Mrs A was unhappy; she maintained that the problem she has was caused by UKIs 
garages poor work. Mrs A also provided details about further paintwork issues  flaking of 
paint on the rear door, which the garage had rectified for her in early 2021. She noted this 
had not been identified during the December 2020 post-work inspections and felt this 
showed the inspections couldnt be relied upon as evidence of the work having been 
satisfactorily completed. UKI referred to its garage  it said that, around two months after the 
car was returned to Mrs A, it had taken it back to rectify a chip on the rear door as a 
goodwill gesture. 
Mrs As complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt the complaint 
should be upheld, that UKI should repair, or pay Mrs A so she can repair, the bonnet, 
reimburse Mrs As bodyshop and engineer costs, plus interest* and pay her £150 
compensation. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Mrs As complaint is that UKI completed poor work which has caused the problem she has 
with the paint on the bonnet of her car. So, in the first instance, it is up to her to show that is 
most likely what has happened. Mrs A has presented an opinion from a bodyshop and an 
expert engineer. Ive read them. They seem persuasive. So I think shes done that. That 
means its then up to UKI to provide evidence which refutes that  that persuades me that 
the problem with the bonnet has most likely not resulted from poor work completed by it. 
I think its fair to say that UKI certainly feels that this problem is not connected to, and has 
not been caused by, the work it has done. So Ive considered the evidence and comments 
UKI has presented in support of that position. 
Having done so I find it a concern that the key evidence presented by UKI is not 
contemporaneous. UKIs engineer said he inspected the car with a paint specialist in 
October 2020 and he then, following more work, assessed it again twice in December 2020. 
UKI said its paint specialist inspected the car and provided verbal comment about the work 
but made no report. However, following our Investigator initially advising that he would be 
upholding Mrs As complaint, UKI produced a written report from the paint specialist, dated 
December 2020. UKI later clarified that this written report had been created to show what 
had been found but not memorialised at the time of the 2020 inspection. I find it very unusual 
that proper, contemporaneous records of assessments and further rework needed were not 
made or kept, particularly given the history of this claim and repair work. As the engineers 
comments and the paint specialists report are not contemporaneous, I find that I cant put 
much weight on them and, consequently, I dont find them persuasive.
Setting these concerns aside for a moment, Ive looked at the other detail provided by UKI. 
UKIs repairer said if there was a problem with the paint this would have shown within seven 
days of the work completing. UKI said the car stayed with the garage for at least ten days 
after work was done before it was inspected, so any faults would have shown by then and 
would have been seen by its engineer and/or the paint specialist. On the face of it, and 
setting aside what Ive said above about the non-contemporaneous evidence of those 
inspections, that sounds like a plausible argument. However, the timeline Ive seen doesnt 
support UKIs assessment that if any flaws existed, theyd have been present at the time of 
the inspection.
UKIs engineer said he inspected the car on 15 December, more work was needed, which 
was duly done and he inspected it again on 17 December 2020. And the paint specialists 
report is dated 17 December also. When asked for clarification about when the car was 
painted, UKI said that was 2 December 2020. But my review of UKIs contemporaneous file 
notes shows that on 4 December 2020 the car was still being painted, with work due to 
complete on 11 December 2020. Which means that even taking the latest inspection date of 
17 December 2020, that was only six days after the paintwork repair was completed. So Im 
not satisfied that the car was inspected more than seven days after completion. 
In any event  the historic problems with the car that had led to the need for rework to be 
done had included peeling paintwork. And Mrs A has evidenced that within two months of 
the car being released to her after the work was done at the end of 2020, her car was taken 
back by the garage to fix an issue of further peeling paintwork. Ive seen photos of this. 
I think its reasonable to view this as flaking paint, rather than a chip as described by the 
garage. This was not on the bonnet. So this further repair doesnt evidence that the problem 
on the bonnet, subject of this complaint, was most likely caused by UKIs poor work. But, 
further peeling paintwork does, in my view, cast further doubt over the veracity and 
persuasiveness of the reported 2020 findings of UKIs engineer and paint specialist (that all 
paintwork on the car had been completed to a satisfactory standard).  
There is also an absence of evidence from UKI, along with a mistaken understanding by its 
area manager as to the relevant events. UKI has not had an engineer assess the actual 
problem Mrs A has complained about. The manager and an employee of the garage which 
completed the paintwork in question went and viewed the car. But that is not really an independent view  and it is not equivalent to an engineers opinion. UKI considered having 
the problem assessed by an engineer  in my view it would have made absolute sense for 
the engineer who had reportedly seen the car in December 2020 to be sent back to view it 
again in light of the problem reported. But UKI chose not to do that. Seemingly on the advice 
of one of its area managers of its repair network. The area managers view was that this 
problem was not related to UKIs work because that had been completed three years earlier. 
Im mindful that the claim occurred three years before  but the area manager seems to 
have overlooked that further work had only been done a matter of months earlier. His advice, 
based on this mistaken understanding of events and which was not corrected by UKI, meant 
that UKI did not take the reasonable action of having an engineer view the problem in 
question. Which now means that UKI has no expert engineer opinion for me to consider in 
challenge to that submitted by Mrs A.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that UKI has provided persuasive, reliable evidence which 
successfully refutes the position that Ive explained that Mrs A has satisfactorily established 
 that the problem with her car bonnet has most likely resulted from UKIs poor work. I am 
mindful in considering this that Mrs As engineers report was completed quite a while after 
the car was returned to her following UKIs rework. But UKI, as I said, could have had an 
engineer look at this before. As it didnt Mrs A had to do her best to arrange this herself and 
that took her a little while. However, I dont think the time that passed between the initial 
notification of a further problem and Mrs As report being completed really impacts the 
findings. The findings report the same problem in question as identified in May 2021. And 
the engineers view is that it has resulted from poor preparation when painting. Given 
everything Ive seen  Ive no reason to doubt those findings. My view is they are 
persuasive. As a result, given everything Ive seen and found here, I think UKI needs to 
resolve the paint issue with the bonnet.
At this stage I dont think it would be reasonable for the car to go back to the original 
repairing garage for this further work to be done. If Mrs A would like UKI to, I think it should 
find another garage to do this work. But if Mrs A would rather have the choice of where she 
takes her car to, she should submit estimates to UKI for it to consider. She should submit 
three estimates and UKI can choose which to pay. It can pay less VAT until the work is done 
and Mrs A submits it an invoice showing the VAT is due. It will have to pay her the VAT 
amount within 28 days of the date the invoice is submitted to it. If it pays that outside that 
time, interest* will have to be applied from the date of the invoice until settlement is made.
UKI will also have to refund Mrs A the £200 she was charged by her bodyshop. Mrs A will 
have to show evidence of this outlay. UKI will have to add interest* to the sum applied from 
the date the £200 was paid until settlement is made.
UKI will also have to refund the cost of Mrs As engineers report. Mrs A will have to show it 
proof of her payment for this and it will have to add interest* to the sum from the date the 
report was paid for until settlement is made.
I think this has been frustrating for Mrs A. I think UKI should pay £150 compensation.
Mrs A replied stating she had nothing further to add. UKI only commented about the paint 
specialist report. In that respect UKI said:
The report from the paint specialist was produced for the [Financial Ombudsman Service]. 
The company don't provide reports - they are a third-party company so if this is there [sic] 
business process we have no control over it. They produced the report as a favour.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the comment from UKI. I accept it has no control over the business practices of 
third-party companies. But UKI was in control of matters here and it was ultimately up to it to 
ensure repairs and rework had been successfully completed. As I said provisionally I find it 
very unusual that proper, contemporaneous records of assessments and further rework 
needed were not made or kept, particularly given the history of this claim and repair work. 
As the parties have not otherwise commented on or objected to my findings, Ive no need to 
say anything more about them. Other than to confirm that my provisional findings have not 
changed and that they, along with my comments here, now form the findings of this, my final 
decision. 
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Repair the bonnet  at a different garage from that used before; 
or, if Mrs A prefers:
Pay Mrs A her cost to repair the bonnet  based on its choice of three estimates 
presented by Mrs A  less any VAT amount shown;
then, if work is done and Mrs A submits a VAT invoice to it:
Pay the VAT sum due within 28 days of the date the invoice is received by it. If it pays 
later than this then it will also have to pay interest* on the VAT sum due, applied from the 
date of the invoice until settlement is made. 
I also require UKI, subject to Mrs A providing proof of her outlay, to reimburse Mrs A:
£200 being the cost charged by the bodyshop, plus interest* from the date this sum was 
paid until settlement is made.
The cost of her expert engineers report, plus interest* from the date this sum was paid 
until settlement is made.
I further require UKI to pay Mrs A:
£150 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman