DRN-2498018
The complaint
Mr W complained because Santander UK Plc refused to reimburse him for payments which 
he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 5 June 2020, 18 payments to an online gambling firm were debited to Mr Ws Santander 
account between 15:26 and 15:44. These totalled £1,000 and were for amounts between 
£20 and £100 each.  Towards the end of this period, two higher payments for £200 were 
attempted, but these were rejected by Santanders system. 
Santanders system sent a text to Mr W at 15:50. Mr W rang Santander back and said he 
hadnt made the transactions. He said he thought the payments had been made by a foreign 
exchange firm with which hed opened an account the previous day. Mr W said he still had 
his debit card, and hadnt authorised anyone else to use his card. He said he had used the 
online betting firm himself in the past, but he hadnt made these transactions 
Santander cancelled Mr Ws card and issued a replacement, but when it investigated the 
disputed transactions, it refused Mr Ws claim for a refund.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he hadnt carried out the 
transactions and he wanted Santander to refund him. He also pointed out that some of the 
transactions were timed as having taken place in the same minute. He said this would have 
been impossible for him to do because it needed verification on his mobile app. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He asked the gambling firm for more 
information, but it said it would only deal with the account holder for data protection reasons. 
Neither Mr W nor Santander could provide very much more information from the gambling 
firm either. From the information available, it appeared that there were two accounts in Mr 
Ws name with the gambling firm. One had been used for the undisputed transactions earlier 
in 2020, and a different one for the disputed June transactions. The name on the gambling 
account used for the disputed June transactions was a combination of Mr Ws name and 
email address.
The investigator thought Mr W had carried out the disputed June gambling transactions 
himself. He noted that Mr W had a history of large gambling spends and high risk investing 
in foreign exchange. Mr Ws Santander account had still had £2,100 left after the 
transactions, and an unauthorised third party would be more likely to have carried on 
spending. The investigator also thought it wasnt likely that any unauthorised party would 
have used the gambling site which Mr W was familiar with, and where winnings could only 
be paid back to the account.  And the transactions had stopped after Mr W spoke to 
Santander, which an unauthorised third party wouldnt have known. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said yes, he gambled, but that shouldnt mean his account should 
suffer fraud. He suggested we should take a closer look at the gambling firm and try to 
obtain more details about the accounts. He said hed only ever opened one account with the 
gambling firm. Hed checked this account and no money had gone in there from the 
Santander account. He said he hadnt carried out the transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulations
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in June 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Santander) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Ive seen the computerised authentication records. The payments were carried out online 
using Mr Ws card, and correct thee-digit security code. So the disputed payments were 
authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
The type of payment made here is defined as distance contracts, because they were made 
online. The rules say that customers arent liable for any payments they didnt authorise  
unless they are particular types of payment, called excepted contracts.  And one of the 
excepted contract types is gambling. This means that the protection that a customer would 
normally have for a distance contract, doesnt necessarily apply.
Who authorised the disputed payments?
Having found that the payments were authenticated, Ive gone on to consider who 
authorised them. Mr W told us he didnt authorise the payments. But I have to consider all 
the circumstances, to try to work out whats most likely to have happened. 
As Ive noted above, Mr W pointed out that some of the transactions were timed as having 
taken place in the same minute. He said this would have been impossible for him to do 
because it needed verification on his mobile app. So I asked Santander for more information 
about how these payments had been made.
Santander explained that when making deposits into a betting account, the card details are 
already stored within the customers account, so dont need to be re-entered every time. Its 
simply a matter of entering the amount, and clicking deposit. Santander told us that the 
disputed payments didnt need the extra verification from Mr Ws mobile app  and theyd 
been carried out in the same way as the undisputed payments hed made in May.
So I accept it was technically possible to carry out so many transactions in such a short 
space of time.
Mr W said hed like us to try to obtain more details about the accounts from the gambling 
firm. But the firm wasnt willing to provide us with more information. It often happens that we 
dont have all the evidence we would ideally like. When that happens, I make my decision on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened, taking into account all available 
evidence and the circumstances of the complaint.
If someone had fraudulently spent money on Mr Ws Santander account, I consider its 
unlikely theyd have stopped when there was still £2,100 in the account. And the disputed 
transactions stopped when Mr W spoke to Santander  which any third party fraudster 
couldnt have known. Santander blocked Mr Ws existing card, so any new transactions 
wouldnt actually have debited the account - but the computerised records show there were 
no more attempted transactions either.
I understand Mr Ws point that he gambles, but this shouldnt mean his account should be 
defrauded. But if an unauthorised third party had obtained Mr Ws Santander online banking 
details, I think its unlikely that what theyd have used these for would have been to set up a 
gambling account with the same online gambling firm that Mr W already used  still less to 
set up an account with a username which was similar to Mr Ws email address. Any such 
fraudsters would have been much more likely to have spent the money elsewhere.
And the pattern of gambling spend on 5 June was similar to the undisputed payments to the 
same gambling firm which had taken place in May. Those started with a £20 withdrawal, 
gradually increasing to £100.
So I think its more likely than not that Mr W authorised the payments himself. 
Finally, I note that in the email exchanges between Mr W and the gambling firm, Mr W said 
that the only company that had my details was [name of foreign exchange firm with which 
hed opened an account the previous day]. As a result, the gambling firm had replied that It 
has also been noted that you accept that there was a security breach on your part that 
allowed this person access to your personal book where you keep all your financial 
information.
In my conclusions above, Ive found that it was more likely than not that Mr W carried out the 
disputed transactions himself. But even if it were a third party who carried out the disputed 
transactions, Mr Ws statement that hed allowed a third party to access to his information 
suggests that he wouldnt be entitled to a refund from Santander anyway. Thats because 
customers have a duty to keep security information secure. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman