DRN-3750365
The complaint
I, a charity, has complained about their property insurer Aviva Insurance Limited because it 
declined their claim made when a ceiling in their building came down.
What happened
I discovered damage at their property on 13 December 2021. They made a claim to Aviva on 
their all-risks policy. Aviva noted there was rot in ceiling timbers and no sign of storm 
damage to the roof. It said the damage had occurred gradually, for which there is an 
exclusion on the policy. So it declined Is claim. I complained to us.
Our Investigator noted the report of damage and the policy exclusion. So he felt Aviva had 
acted fairly and reasonably. I disagreed and the complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans 
consideration. I felt it should be upheld and issued a provisional decision explaining my 
views in the following findings:
I has an all-risks policy with Aviva which essentially covers it for all damage howsoever 
caused. Unless the damage is excluded. Here the damage, at least in part, does seem to 
have occurred gradually. I say that as there is rot in the ceiling timbers and rot, by its nature, 
is a gradual process. And the Aviva policy does exclude gradual damage. However, that 
does not mean it is fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline Is claim.
This service doesnt always find it fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on a strict 
assessment of the policy terms in settling a claim. In respect of exclusions for damage which 
occurs gradually, including any for rot, we expect insurers to take into account whether the 
policyholder could or should reasonably have known that damage was occurring. If they 
reasonably didnt know then we would find an insurers reliance on the exclusion to decline 
liability for the claim unfair and unreasonable. 
Here I note from the relevant reports that the ceiling was constructed in such a way that I 
wouldnt have known there was any issue going on above it. In short water was causing 
damage to the upper surface of the ceiling and to the timbers in the void but wasnt 
penetrating through to the interior surface of the ceiling. So no-one using the room would 
have known there was a problem, until the ceiling came down. And I note that I did do 
maintenance on the property, so I dont think they neglected things. Nothing Ive seen makes 
me think that I did or shouldve known that damage was occurring at their property. It follows 
that I think Avivas decline of Is claim was unfair and unreasonable. It should now accept the 
claim and settle it in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  to be clear 
that is any terms that do not relate to gradual damage of any sort. If settlement is made by a 
cash payment (rather than Aviva completing any outstanding repairs), interest* should be 
added from the date of loss until payment is made.
As I understand it, I has done some work already, largely to make the building safe from 
further damage. Aviva will need to take the costs I has incurred in this respect into account 
when settling the claim. It may well be that Aviva might have paid less for that work to be 
done  but it wont be able to rely on what it would have cost it to do that work when making 
settlement for Is outlay. For any part of the claim settlement that relates to Is costs, interest 
on each reimbursed sum will have to be paid from the date the cost was incurred until 
reimbursement is made.
I has been unable to use the office since, they have said staff have had to travel elsewhere 
to a different place of work. Clearly this has been an inconvenience for I. And it may also 
have caused I to incur extra costs. I think Aviva should pay I £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience it has caused. And if I can show Aviva that they have incurred extra costs due 
to not being able to use the damaged office, Aviva should reimburse those, plus interest*.
I provided further evidence regarding the collapse of the ceiling. Aviva said it wouldnt be 
objecting to my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank I for the further evidence provided. This does support what it had said previously.  
And I note Aviva is not objecting to my findings. As such my provisional findings are now 
those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Settle Is claim for damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
If that is done by a cash payment, add interest* to any settlement, from the date of loss 
to the date the settlement is paid.
Except for where any settlement relates to reimbursing costs I incurred for building work, 
then interest* should be applied from the date each reimbursed cost was incurred by 
I until reimbursement is made.
Pay I £250 compensation for inconvenience.
Reimburse I any costs incurred due to not being able to use their office because of the 
damage, subject to proof being provided by I, with interest* to be added to any 
reimbursed sum from the date the cost was incurred until payment is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Aviva to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman