DRN-2550538
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly applied an early repayment charge 
(ERC), having misled them about when it would apply. They ask that it refunds the ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2017. They say they had to choose 
between a two or five year product, and chose a two year fixed interest rate product. 
Mr and Mrs V sold their house in late 2019 and Lloyds applied an ERC of about £3,000. Mr 
and Mrs V say theyd expected the fixed rate product to have ended by then, as it was more 
than two years after they took out the mortgage. They say they were misled by Lloyds.
Our investigator said it was clear in the mortgage offer that the fixed rate product  which 
included an ERC  ended on 31 January 2020. The same end date was set out on annual 
statements sent to Mr and Mrs V. The investigator said it wasnt fair to require Lloyds to 
refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree. Mr V said they were sold a two-year product. He said it wasnt 
fair for Lloyds to put something different in documents that no-one reads or understands, 
without bringing it to their attention.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds sent a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs V in 2017. This set out the terms of the product 
they took out, which included an ERC. The offer set out the percentage amount of the ERC 
and the period in which it applies. It said an ERC is payable if the mortgage is repaid before 
31 January 2020. 
Mr and Mrs M repaid the mortgage in December 2019 and Lloyds applied the ERC. I think it 
was entitled to do so under the terms of the product, which Mr and Mrs V agreed to when 
they took out the product. 
There could be circumstances in which Id find it fair to require Lloyds to waive or refund an 
ERC. Thats not the case here. I dont think Lloyds misled Mr and Mrs V. I think they were 
given clear information about the period during which the ERC would apply before they took 
out the product.
The annual mortgage statements sent to Mr and Mrs V also say the ERC applies until 31 
January 2020. 
When Mr V contacted Lloyds in November 2019, Lloyds told him the ERC would apply if the 
mortgage was repaid in December 2019.
If Mr and Mrs V didnt read the mortgage offer before agreeing to it, I dont think Lloyds is 
responsible for this. If Mr and Mrs V needed help understanding the mortgage offer they 
could have asked Lloyds or their solicitor. 
I dont think Lloyds made an error or treated Mr and Mrs V unfairly. It follows that I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman