DRN-2005913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy alongside a mortgage which commenced in 1996. The policy was taken out in Mr Ks name and 
only covered him for unemployment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having considered all the evidence available, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Neither party has been able to give us a lot of specific details about what happened at the time this 
policy was sold. While this isnt surprising, given that the policy was sold around 24 years ago, this 
means I must consider what both parties have said, along with what we already know of these types 
of sales, to come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
Mr and Mrs K say that they dont remember taking out the policy, and at no point were they given any 
information or reading about the PPI. Mr and Mrs K say they have only now realised that they had a 
policy which wouldve covered Mr K if he was made redundant.
Nationwide, however, says that Mr and Mrs K wouldve been under no obligation to take out the PPI 
and that it wouldve supplied them with an Insurance Schedule  setting out the cost and benefit of 
their policy, and a Policy Document  setting out the terms and conditions of the policy. Nationwide 
says the policy wouldve only been added to their mortgage with their explicit consent. Nationwide 
have provided samples of these documents, and as it was their usual process to supply these in 
every sale, Ive not seen any specific reason as to why Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have received these.  
Both Mr and Mrs K were working at the time and the mortgage was taken out in joint names, however, 
the PPI was taken out in Mr Ks name only. PPI policies usually cover a person for accident, sickness 
and unemployment but often the applicant can choose which parts of the cover they wish to take out. 
This suggest that Mr and Mrs K decided that cover was only needed for Mr K and that he only needed 
unemployment cover. 
Ive thought back to what Mr and Mrs K have said, and from what Ive seen I think they wouldve 
known about the policy and its likely they discussed the options available before making their 
selections. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest the policy was compulsory for Mr and Mrs K. 
Ive also seen some of Mr and Mrs Ks annual mortgage statements from 1999 onwards. Nationwide 
says they wouldve received these every year, but it no longer has statements from prior to 1999. 
These statements show PPI listed at the bottom, separate from the list of mortgage repayments, 
called Payment Protection. So, I think these statements make it clear that Mr and Mrs K had a form 
of PPI - and they couldve cancelled this sooner if they didnt want or felt they didnt need the benefits 
of the policy. And Ive seen evidence that Mr and Mrs K wrote to Nationwide in 2001 to cancel the 
policy. 
So, on balance, and without any stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely than not that 
Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it 
out  although I can understand if they cant remember this.
As this was a non-advised sale Nationwide didnt have to check if the policy was right for Mr and 
Mrs K, but it did have to make sure they got the information they needed to decide if the PPI was right 
for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been, but this policy only covered Mr K for unemployment benefits. And from what Ive 
seen, he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations of the policy. Mr K says 
he had savings which he couldve been used had he been made redundant. But Mr and Mrs K 
decided to take the PPI out in Mr Ks name only, so I think his income was important to them. Having 
the PPI in place meant that they didnt have to worry about meeting their mortgage repayments in the 
event Mr K was made redundant and couldve used their savings for other expenses if he was 
suddenly out of work.
Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for them. It also looks like it was affordable. And for all 
the reasons outlined above, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs K have maintained that they didnt know what the policy covered them for and, had they 
have known, they wouldve claimed on the policy when Mr K was made redundant. As Ive outlined 
above, I think its likely Mr and Mrs K chose to take the PPI out at the time to cover Mr K for 
unemployment only. Its possible that at the time Mr K was made redundant they had forgotten they 
had this policy, but thats not Nationwides fault and this point doesnt change the outcome of this 
complaint. If Mr and Mrs K would now like to make a backdated claim on their policy, they should 
contact Nationwide in the first instance. 
 
My final decision
For all the reasons outlined above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman