DRN-3501235
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) handled her request to 
change the name on her bank account. 
What happened
Miss T has a personal and sole trader account with Starling. The personal account was 
opened in her married name but she is known professionally by her maiden name.
Miss T found that when clients tried to make payments to her sole trader account using her 
maiden name, it wouldnt confirm her details were correct. 
Starling told Miss T that as her married name doesnt match the name on her sole trader 
account, the confirmation of payee verification process wont work. But that this doesnt 
mean people couldnt still override the process and make the payment.
Starling told Miss T that to change the name on her sole trader account she would need to 
provide a deed poll. Although Miss T sent Starling a deed poll, it was witnessed by one 
person rather than two so Starling wouldnt accept it.
Miss T is unhappy that Starling wont change the name on her sole trader account without a 
deed poll. She thinks this is discriminatory as the process impacts women more than men. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ts complaint be upheld. She thought Starling 
had explained why it couldnt change the name on the account and that it had acted in line 
with the terms of Miss Ts account.
Miss T is unhappy with the investigators resolution. Miss T says she has recordings of calls 
with Starling where it was confirmed she didnt need to provide a deed poll and could make 
the change by submitting a request in writing.
The investigator agreed that although Starling wasnt always as clear as it couldve been 
about what information it required, it told her that it couldnt accept a passport and couldnt 
guarantee a marriage certificate would be enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to the key issues. The rules that 
govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Starlings website has a section which explains that if you have a sole trader account the 
official name on the account is your personal name and not your trading name. For anyone 
trying to make a payment to you, they will need to put your personal name as the account 
name to get a match. If a customer uses your trading name to set you up as a payee, they 
will get a no match response from their bank.
As Miss Ts personal name is her married name, its this name that she will now need to 
change so that anyone trying to make a payment will get a match. 
Ive considered whether Starlings requirement for a deed poll is unfair or unreasonable. 
Starling is subject to legal and regulatory obligations when opening or amending an account. 
And it can set its policies and procedures to comply with these obligations. 
Starlings website says that when a customer wants to update their name it will accept a 
deed poll, marriage certificate or divorce certificate. As Miss T wanted to revert to her 
maiden name but wasnt getting divorced, I dont consider Starling was wrong to require 
sight of a deed poll before it agreed to make the change. And although I agree that Starling 
couldve been clearer during one of the calls that Miss T had, it did go on to clarify what was 
required to make the change.
Miss T says Starlings policy is discriminatory but this service isnt a court of law and doesnt 
make specific findings of unlawfulness or illegality. So, I cant make any finding on whether 
Starling acted in breach of the Equality Act. If Miss T wants someone to consider whether 
Starlings business practice is discriminatory, it would be better suited for the courts or the 
Equality and Human Rights Commission.
Overall, I dont consider that Starling has acted unreasonably so I dont uphold Miss Ts 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman