DRN-3585734
The complaint
Miss M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided her with poor service 
during the Covid pandemic and has unfairly withdrawn access to her credit card account.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss M raised a complaint against Halifax about the lack of support she 
received whilst she was in France during the Covid pandemic and its decision to withdraw 
access to her credit card account.
Halifax reviewed Miss Ms service concerns. Although it couldnt find records of the calls 
Miss M says she made, as a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to pay her a £100 in recognition 
of any distress and inconvenience caused. It also refunded £658.31 of interest which had 
been applied to her credit card account. 
Halifax also explained that prior to the above events - in line with lending regulations, it had 
written to Miss M as it had identified that her credit card account  was in persistent debt  her 
balance was increasing as her monthly payments didnt cover the interest being accrued on 
her credit card account . This meant Miss M needed to make increased payments to ensure 
her credit card account remained open. Halifax also said Miss Ms credit card account fell 
into arrears in April and July 2020, so it withdrew access to that account in December 2020. 
Dissatisfied with the response from Halifax, Miss M referred her complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed Miss Ms concerns and found that Halifax had acted reasonably and 
didnt recommend it take any further action. Miss M didnt agree and asked for a review, so 
the case has been passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, Ill start by saying that this decision will focus on whether Halifax has acted fairly 
and reasonably in respect of the service it provided to Miss M whilst she was in France and 
its decision to withdraw Miss Ms access to her credit card account. If Miss M has further, 
new complaint points these will need to be raised with Halifax in the first instance.
Im sorry to hear of Miss Ms experience over the past few years, especially the experience 
she had in France and the impact the Covid pandemic had on her ability to travel home. I do 
understand that not having access to her credit card account will have been both upsetting 
and frustrating and that Miss M thinks Halifax has acted unfairly. But based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think it did. Ill explain why. 
Service Issues
Miss M says Halifax did not assist her whilst she was in France between March 2020 and 
July 2021 when we were in lockdown due to the Covid pandemic. During this time Miss M 
says she contacted Halifax to ask for help with setting up a direct debit to make her monthly 
credit card payments as she didnt have access to online banking. Miss M says she called 
multiple times and was told that she could not set up the direct debit. 
Halifax reviewed Miss Ms concerns, but it says it couldnt find any record of Miss M 
contacting it between March 2020 and April 2021. And, although the investigator asked Miss 
M if she had any further information we could provide Halifax with to help trace the calls, she 
hasnt provided any further details. 
Halifax does however have a record of Miss M contacting it in May 2021 to make a payment 
towards her card. The payment could not be taken over the phone, so Miss M was given a 
different number to contact. Halifaxs records at the time indicate that Miss M eventually 
made a payment online to her credit card account. But I havent seen anything in Halifaxs 
records that suggests Miss M asked for any further assistance at this stage. 
In the absence of any further information about the earlier calls Miss M says she made, it is 
difficult for me to say with any certainty what happened during the time Miss M was in 
France. In any event, I can see Halifax has offered Miss M £100 in recognition of any service 
failings that may have happened and the impact these may have had on Miss M. I can also 
see it has refunded interest charges of £658.31 to Miss Ms credit card account.
I appreciate Miss M doesnt think Halifax has done enough. The Covid pandemic posed 
many challenges for banks like Halifax, one of those being how it could best support 
customers who were impacted by the lockdown. But in the absence of further information I 
think Halifaxs decision to pay compensation and to refund interest which was rightfully 
accrued on the account is fair given the lack of information available
Credit card account withdrawal
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets rules (CONC 6.7.27 to 6.7.31) about persistent 
debt that businesses such as Halifax must follow. They define persistent debt as when a 
consumer has paid more in interest, fees, and charges than theyve repaid towards the 
capital they owe over the previous 18 months. The FCA requires businesses to assess 
whether a customer falls within this definition and when they identify thats the case the rules 
require a business to send letters to the consumer 18, 27 and 36 months after the credit card 
account falls into persistent debt. 
In Miss Ms case Halifax identified that Miss Ms credit card account met, and continued to 
meet, the FCAs definition of persistent debt. Having reviewed templates of these letters, I 
can see they explained, amongst other things, increasing payments would reduce the cost of 
the borrowing. Miss M hasnt said she didnt get these letters, but she has said Halifax 
expected her to pay more than she could afford. So, on balance, Im persuaded its most 
likely that Miss M did get the letters Halifax sent and she knew what action she needed to 
take if she wanted to keep the credit card account active. I understand meeting the 
increased repayments may have been challenging for Miss M, but the letters also 
encouraged Miss M to get in touch with Halifax if she needed further advice and assistance. 
But ultimately these were actions Halifax had to take to meet the regulations it is required to 
follow.
Ive reviewed Miss Ms credit card statements, and Im satisfied that any payment she made 
werent enough to reduce her overall indebtedness. So, Im satisfied that Halifax acted in 
accordance with the regulations when it withdrew access to the credit card account and 
offered repayment options. Halifax has already paid Miss M £100 compensation and refunded the £658.31 of interest to 
her credit card account. In addition, I note it has also applied a life of balance interest waiver 
to her outstanding balance. Taking everything into account, while I understand that Miss M 
will be disappointed, Im satisfied Halifax has treated Miss M fairly and I wont be asking it to 
do anything further in respect of this complaint. 
As mentioned above, if Miss M has new complaint points relating to her current account, she 
will need to contact Halifax in the first instance. She can then refer that matter to this service 
if she is unhappy with Halifaxs response.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman