DRN-4050855
The complaint
Miss R raises a number of complaints about Eagle Financial Services Limited (Eagle). She 
complains she was misled about the tax she could claim in respect of her Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and other products recommended to her. And she is generally 
unhappy with the advisory service it provided.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision. Ive repeated it again 
here with some amendments to reflect information provided to me by each party. 
Miss R told our service that she had met with the Eagle adviser (the adviser) previous to 
June 2017. She said Eagle had been managing her affairs for many years and was aware of 
Miss Rs plans for retirement for nearly five years before this date so discussions about her 
investment plans began before June 2017. But for the purposes of this complaint the issues 
leading to Miss Rs complaint, started in or around June 2017. 
In the Confidential Financial Planning Questionnaire  Adviser Notes the adviser said the 
following about Miss Rs circumstances:
I had initially said that Miss R worked two days each week since May 2016. However, 
Miss R has corrected my provisional decision by saying this should have read she 
had reduced her hours in May 2017. And she had an annual rental income of 
£17,000 to £25,000.
She didnt intend to draw on her pension because she wanted to use these funds for 
inheritance planning.
Her assets included a main residence of £400,000, a second home at £190,000, a 
50% share in an office of £200,000, agricultural land of £100,000 and cash of around 
£375,000. It was noted the shares in her business would sell for an estimated 
£1.7million (Miss R has confirmed her shares were sold for just over £1.9million).
She wanted to retire investing the sale proceeds of her business with low or no risk 
investments although it was noted some risk was important.
She wanted enough money to live comfortably for the rest of her life. She wanted to 
work out how much income she could take without depleting her resources.
On 23 June 2017 Miss R signed the client agreement which, amongst other things, set out 
the cost of Eagles financial consultation as a one-off payment of £7,000. And its ongoing 
review service was set at 0.25% of Miss Rs total funds, which was a reduction in Eagles 
normal fee of 0.50%. On the same day, (23 June) a suitability report was prepared by the 
adviser. Amongst other things, Miss Rs aims and objectives were recorded as follows:
Plan for a change in lifestyle on retirement after selling shares in her business. She 
wanted to continue working for approximately another eighteen months and may 
require an income from what shed invested. 
There was an anticipated Capital Gains Tax (CGT) liability of £190,000 from the sale 
of her shares in her business  Miss R was willing to consider ways of mitigating this.
She wanted to retain some money in deposit accounts for spending over the next 
couple of years and invest £1.5million without tying up her money.
She wanted to use her pension funds and property/ land only as a last resort.
She required growth in the short and long term with the opportunity to take tax 
efficient income when required.
She wanted to maximise her tax allowance and reduce tax when possible. She also 
wanted to minimise costs and charges.
She required a low risk strategy with her money and her main concern was a 
reduction in her spending power due to inflation over time.
The adviser gave Miss R a risk rating of low (level 3 out of 10). And in summary, the adviser 
made the following recommendations to Miss R:
Invest £150,000 in a General Investment Account (GIA) for short term growth until 
consideration was given to investing into an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). 
Invest £1million in an Offshore Bond (the Bond) which would provide tax free growth 
and she could withdraw up to 5% allowance (£50,000) each year for tax efficient income.
Invest £325,000 in a Wealth Preservation Account (WPA) with the same provider as the 
Bond. The WPA is arranged as a cluster of single premium life assurance policies 
written into trust. After seven years the invested assets will become protected from 
Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability.
Top-up her SIPP account with £88,960 to fully fund her pension account for tax relief. 
The adviser recommended holding all the investments/bonds and the SIPP with one platform 
provider who Ill refer to as B. The reason given was that it would enable Eagle to negotiate 
lower contract costs and it would also result in administration benefits.
Another suitability report dated 28 June 2017 dealt with the WPA and its impact on IHT 
planning. The objective was said to be: You are aware of reliefs available for your estate 
that reduce your estate for IHT. You have already made pension contributions to the 
maximum limits in order that this can provide for your beneficiaries at your death or for your 
own use should you require it in the long term. You are happy to make a gift to trust to 
reduce your exposure to IHT as long as maximum flexibility is available and that capital is 
available should you require it or it reduces IHT if not required.
The adviser said for the tax year 2017/2018 the Nil Rate Band (NRB) for IHT purposes was 
£325,000 and that after seven years the invested assets (in the WPA) would become totally 
protected from IHT. The adviser went on to say: We have discussed that you would like to 
have your [a named trustee] and long standing friend as Trustees. Your beneficiaries of the 
Trust will not be named in your application but provided as a letter of wishes with your Will. 
This is because, if at a later date, you change your mind about your beneficiaries, this can 
easily be amended via the letter of wishes rather than a full legal process involved with [the 
providers name] documentation.
The adviser noted investing in a WPA is a Chargeable Lifetime Transfer (CLT). So, when a 
gift is made into the WPA, it can become liable for immediate IHT together with any CLT paid 
within the last seven years which exceeds the NRB of £325,000. In terms of the providers 
establishment fee the adviser recommended Option 2. The adviser said this would mean no 
upfront initial fee at 1.5% (Options 1) but instead this would be charged at 0.089% paid 
quarterly over a period of five years. The adviser noted as Miss R wasnt likely to make any 
withdrawals within five years of opening the WPA, which would result in penalties if she did, 
she (the adviser) thought Option 2 was the better payment option as it would mean no 
deduction from the initial investment, meaning more potential for growth from the outset.Despite recommending investing £325,000, the WPA suitability report also referred to the 
sum of £333,100, which was an enhanced amount to cover ongoing charges. And on 
28 June 2017, Miss R was provided with a WPA key facts document referring to the 
enhanced amount. However, on 6 July 2017, another WPA key facts document was 
provided to Miss R based on an initial investment of £325,000. And on the same day, Miss R 
wrote a cheque for this amount to be invested in the WPA.
In terms of costs and charges that applied to Miss Rs investments these were set out in 
various documents including the EIS suitability report, the portfolio reports and key facts 
documents as well as the providers brochures and illustrations. This information showed the 
following key costs that applied to Miss Rs investments:
Bs yearly costs were 0.17% across all contracts.
The Discretionary Fund Managers (DFM) fees were 0.36%.
The GIA illustration listed various investment charges for each of Miss Rs investments 
held in her account.
In terms of the Bond, a key facts document dated 27 June 2017 showed the amount to 
be invested would be £1,000,000. An initial fee of £8,000 was deducted at the outset 
leaving a net investment of £992,000. The initial fee had been reduced from 1.5% to 
0.8% by the Bond provider. A quarterly administration fee of £131.70 applied. Miss R 
was also provided with a Charges and Fees document for the Bond.
In terms of the WPA Miss R was provided with two key facts. The first was dated 
28 June 2017 with a premium of £333,100. This was based on the charging structure 
under Option 2 where the establishment fee was taken over a period of five years at 
0.089% as opposed to Option 1 which would have been an initial fee of 1.5%. Option 2 
was based on the recommendation of the adviser. Miss R also received a second WPA 
key facts document dated 6 July 2017 with the payment option of Options 2.
In addition to the information in the various documents, on 14 June 2017 Miss R met with 
representatives from B and the DFM to discuss her investments. At this meeting the 
representative of the DFM noted Miss R seemed knowledgeable about the type of fees 
which applied to the investments that were part of her portfolio, particularly those involving 
foreign trading. The B agent also noted Miss R said on more than one occasion that she 
was: an experienced Foreign Exchange Investor. Bs agent added that with Miss Rs 
level of investments on its (Bs) platform she received a discounted rate of its Annual 
Management Charges.
In February 2018 Miss R and the adviser discussed investing in an EIS. This was first 
referred to in the initial suitability report in June 2017 but it wasnt recommended at that time. 
The adviser was initially reluctant to recommend this to Miss R due to her (Miss Rs) low 
attitude to risk. But Miss R had discussed this option with her accountant and said she was 
willing to take the increased risk in order to take advantage of the tax benefits.
Following some research, the adviser considered she (the adviser) had found a suitable EIS 
product for Miss R to invest in. So, a recommendation was made to invest £90,000 in an EIS 
platform Ill refer to as K. K invested in a number of EIS companies. And the adviser 
considered this diversification was more suitable for Miss Rs risk appetite. The adviser also 
noted after some research she was able to establish that due to the 10% Entrepreneurs Tax 
Relief (ETR) Miss R had received from the sale of her business, she (Miss R) could still 
benefit from CGT deferral via an EIS investment.
The adviser provided a EIS suitability report where she recommended Miss R invest £90,000 
at that point with K and later a further £40,000 in other EIS investments. The adviser noted: 
It was agreed that the amount to invest required to offset income tax via reliefs from an EIS is £90,000 for the tax year to carry back from 2016/2017 leaving £40,000 to invest to recover 
tax payable for 2017/2018. Both investments will reduce Capital Gains liability due in 2019 
by £57,000 as well as recover 100% tax paid in 2016/17 and that estimated to be payable 
2017/2018 (to be confirmed by HMRC).
The adviser also prepared two portfolio reports (both undated), relating to the EIS investments. 
As with the suitability report, these both set out the advantages and disadvantages of the EIS 
investment. They also set out the funds Miss R would be likely to invest in with a description of 
what each business did. The second EIS portfolio report noted the amount to be invested was 
a total of £150,000. And under the heading what happens next the adviser noted: Your 
money will be held in cash until each relevant EIS fund obtains HMRC approval for investment 
when you will receive an EIS3 certificate. This certificate is the form used to obtain your tax 
reliefs. It can take six to nine months to obtain certificates.
Miss R was also provided with various documents from the EIS provider K. In summary 
these documents along with the suitability report set out the advantages and disadvantages 
of this type of investment along with other key facts which included:
In addition to the CGT deferment it was possible to offset income tax paid/ due that 
tax year and the previous year under carry back rules. The funds from this could be 
used to mitigate Miss Rs CGT liability.
The disadvantages included that the investments were high risk and illiquid. It could 
take twelve months to obtain HMRC EIS qualification and HMRC could take up to 
twelve months to issue certification. CGT was only deferred until there was a 
disposal of qualifying shares or a breach of the EIS rules.
Fees could be high at entry and for ongoing EIS management.
Miss R had agreed to take the increased risk of investing in an EIS because the 
deferment of CGT was attractive to her, in addition to the other tax benefits. It was 
noted Miss R was fully aware of the high risk nature of an EIS which was classified 
as a specialist risk.
It was agreed the amount to invest required to offset income tax via an EIS was 
£90,000. The adviser said if Miss R invested £90,000 then she would receive 
£26,939.60 (rounded to £27,000) in income tax relief. So this could be used towards 
the CGT payable in January 2019.
Miss R and the adviser had dismissed other types of investment such as ISA 
allowances which had been maximised for that tax year.
In the provisional decision, I referred to calculations which were provided to us by the 
adviser. But both Miss R and the adviser have confirmed that these calculations were not 
provided to Miss R so I have removed them from the background of this complaint. And will 
not rely on them to reach my final decision.
Miss R was provided with two illustrations for the £90,000 to be invested in K. These both 
showed the net qualifying investment amount after deduction of costs was just over 
£87,000. Ks charging at a glance document set out the fees that would apply to Miss Rs 
investment which included an initial fee of 1.5% and an annual fee of 0.2%. Eagle had an 
initial fee of 1% for this type of investment. These costs were set out in the illustration.
In March 2018, Miss R invested £90,000 in an EIS with K. Amongst other things, the 
application also set out some of the key risks involved in investing in an EIS. Miss R 
recorded her annual gross income in the EIS application form as £20,000. In November 
2018, Miss R invested a further £30,000 with K. On this occasion she said in her application 
form that her yearly income was £50,000 and said her occupation was retired. In terms of 
Ks illustration this showed the net amount invested after fees was £28,812.In respect of another EIS investment this was with a different provider who Ill refer to as T. 
An illustration was provided showing all the costs that would be applied. And showed there 
would be a net qualifying investment of £28,570. Miss R was issued with a key facts 
document by T. This showed the risk rating for the EIS was high and the intended market 
was for those who were willing to accept a high risk of loss to their capital invested in illiquid 
investments. But it noted any losses may be mitigated by EIS tax loss relief.
Ts Brochure and Investor Agreement document, amongst other things, said: Amounts 
invested my be held with the Custodian for a period of up to 12 months (or such longer 
period as may be determined by the Manager) before being allotted to Investee Companies. 
Allotments into Investee Companies may be done from time to time and may be done in 
stagesso as to take advantage of investment opportunities and provide flexibility to 
Investee Companies. The brochure went on to say: EIS Relief will apply for the ex-year in 
which shares are allotted and can be carried back one year. There is no guarantee the 
shares will be allotted in the same tax year as the Subscription Deadline. Miss R signed Ts 
application form dated 29 October 2018.
In January 2020, T sent Miss R a Share Allotment Confirmation document, which showed 
the amount of her funds which had been allotted up to that date and also a new investment 
which had been made. Amongst other things, this said: 
Prior to the investment, [the investee company] received HMRC Advance Assurance 
regarding the issue of EIS qualifying shares. We will work with the Company in order to 
obtain and issue EIS3 certificates as soon as possible, so that you are able to claim EIS 
tax reliefs, as applicable. HMRC may take six months from the date of allotment, or 
longer, to issue certificates. Please note the allotment date in respect of the investment 
into [the investee company] of 9 January 2020.
We will keep you informed of our progress regarding EIS3 certificates. In situations 
where the EIS3 certificates are not available prior to the self-assessment tax return filing 
deadline for the period in which a claim is to be made, you will be able to obtain relief by 
way of a stand alone claim on receipt of the certificate. The timing of the certificate 
does not impact the availability or amount of relief or the period(s) against which it can 
be claimed.
In this document it showed the funds brought forward were £13,714. Further, it was noted 
the latest funds deployed in qualifying shares was £3,299 leaving undeployed funds 
available for further investment as at 9 January 2020 as £10,415.
Miss Rs complaint
Miss Rs complained to our service about Eagles overall advice. In summary, she said:
Eagle misled her about how much she could reclaim in tax relief via her SIPP. 
Eagle had not noticed that the platform provider, B, had charged her incorrectly. 
She hadnt been told about yearly stockbroking fees for the Bond (£230) and 
WPA (£80).
In terms of the Bond, the adviser incorrectly told Miss R the tax free amount she 
was able to withdraw. 
The adviser had provided Miss R with an incorrect Letter of Wishes (LoW).
The adviser had misled Miss R about the WPA charges. 
The adviser hadnt included the enhancement in the WPA of £8,100 when she 
should have done. Miss R only received the key facts document regarding the WPA dated 28 June 2017 and not the one dated 6 July 2017.
The adviser wasnt reluctant to recommend the EIS investments. 
Miss R did raise the EIS with her accountant, but she was relying on Eagles 
advice before going ahead. 
Miss R says she was misled about the amount she would be able to reclaim in 
tax relief from investing in an EIS.
Eagle had known the secondary set of EIS investments needed to be placed 
with some urgency with T. Miss R was led to believe the EIS certificates could 
be issued almost immediately but this has not been the case.
In terms of the EIS investments, the capital invested is stagnating.
Throughout this process, Eagle had been categorical that the full value of the 
EIS investment of £150,000 could be allowed against CGT and income tax, but 
this has proved not to be the case because only the value of the individual EIS 
certificates can be allowed against tax relief which excluded the adviser fees.
When she withdrew the funds from the GIA it had made a loss of £199. She 
said if shed put the funds in a deposit account earning 1.25% a year she would 
have accumulated £1,093 of interest.
Eagle rejected Miss Rs complaint. But it offered her £700 in compensation for any inconvenience 
it caused. Our investigator agreed with the compensation offered. 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 November 2022 as I considered our investigator hadnt 
properly considered the issue of the WPA part of Miss Rs complaint. I partly upheld Miss Rs 
complaint on the basis that I thought the suitability report in respect of the EIS was unclear in 
terms of the tax savings. However, I agreed with our investigator that £700 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for this error. 
In summary, Miss R disagreed with the recommended outcome in my provisional decision and 
reiterated what she had said above. She also added:
The Ombudsman could explain why she is so clear in her assertion Miss R would 
have proceeded with the EIS investment despite the discrepancies in the EIS report. 
Miss R was led to believe that the tax benefits would be in excess of £100,000 as 
suggested by the suitability report, against the reality of £58,000 with an investment 
of £150,000, figures which only came to light after the investments had been made. 
Miss R said the CGT deferral is a maximum of £15,000, but this doesnt take account 
of the costs and charges, so the deferral amount was even less than this.
Eagle advised Miss R on numerous occasions, that with an EIS the tax relief could be 
obtained at the point of investment, but this was incorrect.
Miss Rs accountant mentioned that EIS, but they gave no advice. 
Eagle should also confirm that it had over deducted from Miss Rs investments until it 
was pointed out to them.
The GIA was not considered as an option by Miss R. If the EIS investment had not 
gone ahead the money would be used to settle her CGT liability. Eagles statements 
confirm that it understood this £150,000 was for use for an EIS so it should not have 
been invested in a GIA. As repeated on numerous occasions Miss R never intended 
to invest in a GIA so the Ombudsman should explain why it wasnt unsuitable.
The Ombudsman could explain how she reached the conclusion that she thinks 
Miss R was not misled about the SIPP tax relief.
The Ombudsman should hold Eagle responsible for giving the wrong or misleading 
information in reports, over the telephone or in meetings. Miss R has experienced 
detrimental effects because she was given incorrect information. 
Miss R has supplied the Ombudsman with a signed document dated 31 July 2018 
where Eagle have agreed the stockbroking charges should not have been deducted. Miss R never paid dealing charges when she purchased foreign currency in her job. 
The Ombudsman should not take a view on what she thinks Eagle might or might not 
have done regarding whether it wouldve discovered the mistakes with the 
overcharging by B.
Miss R was given the incorrect charges for the WPA. Miss R had already accepted 
£8,000 upfront fee for the Bond and would likely have done the same with the WPA. 
There is no evidence to support the view from Eagle that it handed over the key facts 
regarding the WPA dated 6 July 2017. 
Miss R was given the wrong figure about how much she could withdraw from her 
Bond. The figure was given at a review meeting after the anniversary date of the 
policy. The Ombudsman appears to miss the point: this is another case of the adviser 
giving the wrong information to its client.
All of Eagles documents should be clearly date stamped. After each meeting or 
telephone discussion the adviser should have provided their client with a dated 
document specifically highlighting any changes that have been made and the reasons 
why and asked for written confirmation of the new instructions. 
The Ombudsman should use evidence of facts and not her personal opinion on what 
she thinks might have happened. And the Ombudsman should deal with every issue 
that has been raised. 
Following Miss Rs submissions, I asked the Eagle adviser to clarify where the £57,000 quoted 
in the EIS suitability report came from. Amongst other things, the adviser said:
The error I talked about was definitely IHT [Inheritance Tax Relief], It had been 
calculated on the investment amount of £130,000. Which is £52,000 plus potential 
saving of probate fees at 3% which they were due to increase ie £56,000 as per the 
report. The actual calculation should have been based on £150,000 which would 
mean an IHT saving of £60,000 (40% of £150,000). This was a further saving of at 
least £4,000 not taking into account any probate fees.
I calculated the overall savings using 10% relief saving as evidenced by the 
illustration provided by [T] which was the accepted illustration to provide application 
which [Ms R] completed herself and accepted. This was provided prior to application. 
See Document (1). It is time stamped at 26.10.2018
My report neither refers to 10% or 20%, I gave overall savings, however either can 
apply. See Document (2) Document (3 ) is a blank claim for CGT. It is available for 
both CGT or ER. ER being prior to 23.10.2010. [Ms R] application for ER 
[Entrepreneurs Relief] was granted 10/04/2017.
I sent the statement of the adviser to Miss R, along with the attachments. I said whilst I agreed 
that suitability report had not been clear, which was a conclusion I had reached in my 
provisional decision, I still considered £700 was appropriate compensation for Eagles mistake. 
Miss R disagreed. In summary, she said Eagle had misled her and she is due compensation 
on this basis. In particular, she pointed out that IHT would not have been a way to mitigate her 
CGT but only to benefit her beneficiaries.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and on balance, even taking into account the further submissions and 
evidence by both parties, I still consider the redress Miss R has been offered is fair and 
reasonable. But before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of 
feeling Miss R has about this matter. Shes provided very detailed submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, my findings will only focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues. 
I know that Miss R wants definitive answers to many (if not all) of the questions she has 
raised, but the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point - its not what Im 
required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, 
but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
I also note Miss R might consider the Financial Ombudsman has been biased towards the 
business, but I dont agree, and Im sorry she feels that way. My decision is based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable based on the available evidence. In deciding whats fair 
and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. And 
where definitive evidence isnt available or is unclear or conflicting as some of it is here, my 
role is to decide on a balance of probabilities what is most likely to have happened based on 
the information Ive been given. 
EIS
The first thing to note here is that in my provisional decision I relied on calculations provided 
to us by Eagle. However, both parties have confirmed that these calculations were not used 
and/or provided to Miss R. So I will not rely on these calculations as part of my final decision. 
These figures noted that Miss R was entitled to 20% CGT deferral rate. And I did say I 
agreed with this. But having reconsidered everything, I agree with Miss R submissions that 
because she received ETR she would likely only be entitled to defer CGT of 10% following 
her investment in an EIS.
As noted above, the adviser provided further clarification about the figure of £57,000 referred 
to in the EIS suitability report. Ive summarised this above, so I wont repeat it again here. 
Both parties have had the chance to comment and review this information. 
So, I agree with Miss R that I dont think the EIS suitability report clearly explained where this 
figure of £57,000 had come from. I concluded this was the case in my provisional decision. 
And the further submissions from both parties supports this. But I do not agree with Miss Rs 
submissions that she was led to believe by the adviser that the figure of £57,000 was based 
on an investment of £90,000. From what I understand of Miss Rs further submissions she 
considered that if this was the case, if the EIS tax savings was £57,000 based on a £90,000 
investment, she could expect a total of around £100,000 tax savings with a further 
investment of £60,000. 
But the relevant part of the EIS suitability report, which I have quoted above, refers to an 
investment of £90,000 and then a further investment of £40,000. So, at the very least, this 
figure (£57,000) was based on an investment in an EIS of £130,000. I do, however, agree 
that Eagle have provided contradictory submissions regarding this amount of tax savings of 
£57,000. For example, in its final response letter to Miss R it said: That included CGT 
deferral and income tax paid for two tax years. A further income tax relief saving was not 
included in this figure for the additional investment to EIS because it was part way through 
the tax year. £40,000 was estimated on the forecast you provided. 
However, even if the suitability report had been clearer about the amount of estimated tax 
savings Miss R could expect, as I concluded in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded this wouldve made a difference to the outcome in that I consider Miss R would still have 
gone ahead with the recommendation to invest in an EIS. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I dont consider, on balance, the recommendation was unsuitable for Miss R which is 
something she is now suggesting due to her low risk rating. I note as at 28 June 2017, 
Miss R had investments totalling £2.8million (excluding land and property) and she had a 
total net worth of over £3.6million. From what I can see the only investment categorised as 
specialist risk in her portfolio following her investment in the EIS products was for £150,000. 
As Miss R said herself: £150,000 into EIS - whilst a high-risk investment the product 
allowed me to defer part of my CGT liability and reclaim 30% relief against Income Tax. After 
2 years of investment it would fall outside the scope of IHT. So, given her overall capacity 
for loss and her objectives for investing in an EIS, I do not think a recommendation to invest 
in this product in the amounts that she did, was unsuitable for Miss R. 
Secondly, from everything Miss R has said, I consider she would have proceeded with the 
investment even if the figures had been clearer in the EIS report. In her letter to Eagle dated 
10 September 2020, she said: 
The EIS was never dismissed by me; whilst being relatively high risk it had the 
benefit of falling outside of IHT and could be used to offset CGT. The maximum 
amount I was prepared to risk in such an investment was £150,000. [The Eagle 
adviser] wanted to research the appropriate products so in order for her to invest 
quickly, if required, I gave an advance payment of £150K, which was to be held on 
account for future use in an EIS. Miss R has also said: You [Eagle] had explained 
that EIS were high risk, and ultimately I knew I needed to balance the level of 
investment, with potential losses against the reduction in CGT liability. 
Furthermore, even before discussing the EIS with Eagle, Miss R had discussed this with her 
accountant. I know the accountant didnt provide advice but it shows Miss R was thinking of 
this investment before discussing it with the adviser. And she also says she was unhappy 
that the EIS wasnt invested at the outset rather than investing in the GIA. 
I further note that when the adviser found two providers that offered Miss R some 
diversification, thereby lowering the risk in, what was, a higher risk product than her other 
investments, Miss R on her own initiative started discussions directly with both EIS providers. 
She was also given other information about the proposed EIS investments including the 
providers key facts documents and brochures. I note T showed in its illustration how much 
CGT deferral Miss R would receive which was 10% of the net investment amount.
Miss R says she didnt complete the application forms as I had said in my email to her 
following my provisional decision. This was based on what the adviser had said. However, 
Miss R does not dispute that she had the opportunity to read all of these applications before 
signing them. These also contained information about the EIS products she was investing in.
Although the suitability report was unclear about the £57,000 tax savings, it did set out the 
benefits and disadvantages of an EIS including the high risk nature of this investment, which, 
as her statements above suggest, Miss R clearly understood and accepted. And its clear that 
Miss R did have an objective of mitigating her IHT as well as defer some of her CGT liability 
and claim the 30% income tax relief. Therefore, the tax savings in the suitability report, even if 
based just on IHT and/ or income tax relief, were not irrelevant to Miss Rs decision making.
Whilst I dont think the matters Ive outlined above, negate the advisers duty to give clear, 
fair and not misleading information, I have to balance any mistakes that have been made 
during the course of the advice, with all of the circumstances of the case to reach a fair conclusion as to the impact of these errors. And, on balance, for all the reasons set out 
above, Im still of the view that Miss R would have proceeded with the EIS investment 
even if she had been given clearer information about the tax benefits she would have 
received from her investments.
Miss R complains about the EIS investments stagnating which could impact on how much 
tax relief she will receive. However, she was clearly told from the start that the tax benefits 
would depend on the performance of the EIS businesses. This was all explained to her from 
the various documents she received including those Ive highlighted above.
In terms of the deduction of the initial costs, Miss R maintains she wasnt told that these 
would be taken at the outset. But the Eagle EIS suitability report itself noted that one of the 
disadvantages of an EIS is that: Fees can be high at entry and ongoing EIS management.  
And I can see that the EIS portfolio report also refers to the applicable costs and charges. 
In addition, Miss R was given illustrations from the adviser based on her investments with K 
and T, which clearly showed how much of the net investment would be made after costs. 
The providers brochures and key facts documents also gave clear information about the 
costs involved. So, Im not persuaded that Miss R wasnt given sufficient information about 
the impact of the initial charges on her EIS investments.
Miss R also says she wasnt given sufficient information about the need to be issued with the 
EIS3 certificates before she could take advantage of the tax benefits. But she was provided 
with clear, fair and not misleading information about this before investing. Information about 
the need to receive the certificates before a claim could be made was set out in the EIS 
suitability report as well as the EIS providers key facts and terms and conditions documents. 
Ive quoted some of this information above. And Miss R was given information clearly showing 
that it could take up to twelve months to receive these certificates. 
I understand there have been delays in issuing some of the certificates from one provider and 
also some of the EIS investments havent been made within expected timeframes so was still 
being held in cash. But this is not something I can hold Eagle responsible for. Once Miss Rs 
investments were made with the relevant providers, the timescales for issuing the certificates 
and/or investing her cash werent within the control of Eagle. And I can see in terms of T, it did 
keep Miss R up to date with the investments and how things were progressing.
SIPP Tax Relief
In my provisional decision, I didnt think there was any persuasive evidence that Eagle 
misled Miss R about the tax relief she could claim regarding her SIPP. I did say ideally, 
Eagle could have said the amount she could have claimed would be capped on her 
earnings. But I also noted that Miss R had an accountant who was dealing with, amongst 
other things, her tax affairs. And she clearly received advice about this matter from that 
accountant. 
Even by Miss Rs own admission, at most, she has suffered a loss of expectation. But I 
dont agree it was Eagle that gave her that expectation. I simply dont find any persuasive 
evidence to support that Eagle had misled Miss R in any way about the tax relief she could 
claim regarding her SIPP.
GIA
Miss R maintains she never intended to invest in a GIA. But, in my view, the evidence from the 
time of the advice shows she was given sufficiently clear information to make an informed 
choice about whether to invest in a GIA based on the advisers recommendation. But Miss R says the plan was instead to invest in the EIS at the point of the initial advice rather 
than the GIA or to just hold the £150,000 until the EIS investment had been made. I appreciate 
Miss R says she would have been better off putting the money in a savings account but this is 
with the benefit of hindsight. The recommendation to invest in a GIA whilst the adviser carried 
out research in the EIS, was not an unsuitable recommendation to make. It should be 
remembered that cost was a significant factor for Miss R in her objectives. The GIA had no 
adviser costs (other than the DFM fees), was low risk and she could access the funds with ten 
days-notice with no exit fees. I think this met with Miss Rs objectives and therefore, wasnt an 
unsuitable recommendation to make.
As I said in my provisional decision, in terms of the loss she suffered when she withdrew monies 
from the GIA to invest in the EIS, Miss R was given sufficient risk warnings about the risk of 
loss. She denies receiving the GIA key facts document but the risk warnings were clearly set out 
in the June 2017 suitability report. I think its unlikely that Miss R, who at every stage of the 
advice process, wanted detailed information about her investments, would have gone ahead 
with an investment where she wasnt provided information about the costs, the benefits, and the 
disadvantages. So, I dont think its reasonable and/or plausible to say that Miss R didnt 
understand she would be investing in a GIA and/ or that she didnt receive information about this 
investment before deciding to proceed with the advisers recommendation.
Fees and charges
In terms of the stockbroking charges, as set out in my provisional decision and the investigators 
view, these particular fees were not levied separately by the Bond/ WPA provider. These were 
the DFM fees and formed part of their 0.36% annual charge. Miss R was given clear, fair and 
not misleading information about the DFM charges from the outset. I note that during a 
conversation with a representative with the platform provider B in June 2017, Miss R was told 
about the potential for dealing costs. The DFM used Bs stockbroking service and the charge 
was made to the DFM. Miss R indirectly paid for the stockbroking fees but this was included in 
the 0.36% DFM charge she was told about from the start. So, I dont think Miss R has been 
misled about the charges. 
 
I know Miss R considers her background in foreign exchange is irrelevant. But the point being 
made by the adviser and the representative from B was that Miss R had some understanding of 
how investments worked including that they could sometimes incur dealing charges. However, 
even without this meeting, I think Miss R was not misled about what charges applied to her 
investment platform. 
Miss R has provided a document dated 31 July 2018, which she says shows the adviser agreed 
that the stockbroking fees needed to be refunded. This document consists of handwritten and 
typed notes which was drafted by Miss R. Whilst Ive taken it into account, I cant say this shows 
the adviser said she would seek a refund on Miss Rs behalf. The adviser has consistently told 
Miss R the stockbroking fees were part of the DFM percentage charge. So, I think its unlikely 
the adviser agreed to seek a refund of these charges on Miss Rs behalf.
Another complaint by Miss R is that Eagle didnt find out about B overcharging her until she found 
out this for herself. But as I said in my provisional decision, this mistake was not made by the 
adviser. I understand Miss R was paying Eagle for a service but it hadnt at the point she found 
the mistake by B, carried out a review of her investments. I dont think it acted unreasonably by 
not doing so before the review date. At this point, its likely these mistakes would have come to 
light. In any event, as explained in my provisional decision, this was a mistake by a third party 
and Miss R has been unable to point to any loss as a result of these charges.Miss R has said that she was also overcharged by Eagle. But I cant see that she raised this 
as part of her complaint. And she hasnt pointed to any loss for which compensation is due.
WPA/ Bond
Miss R says the WPA provider had agreed to reduce the initial fees to the same as the initial 
fee she paid with the Bond which was reduced from 1.5% to 0.8%. But this option was only 
available in relation to payment Option 1 and only applied to the Bond. I cant see any 
evidence of the provider agreeing to reduce its initial fees in respect of the WPA. And all the 
documents relating to the WPA show that Miss R had selected payment under Options 2 
which was to pay a quarterly establishment fee over five years rather than an initial fee 
under Option 1.
In terms of the establishment fee in relation to the WPA, Miss R says she wasnt expecting 
to be charged so quickly under Option 2. From what she says she was led to believe by 
Eagle that the growth of the investments would be sufficient to cover these costs. But this is 
something that may have happened particularly as she was investing with no initial 
deduction of fees. So, I dont think the adviser gave Miss R unreasonable expectations about 
the potential for growth to, at least, cover some part of the fees.
Miss Rs also complains that her WPA investment didnt include the enhanced amount. The key 
facts document dated 28 June 2017 and the suitability report of the same date, showed an 
investment amount of £333,100 which included an enhanced amount of £8,100 which was noted 
to offset ongoing fees. 
But, I can see the suitability report dated 23 June 2017, referred to a WPA investment 
amount of £325,000. And so did a Your Lifetime Cashflow Report dated 28 June 2017. 
Further, the adviser said in the suitability report dated 28 June 2017 that in relation to the 
WPA: The Nil Rate Band is the value of assets that is not chargeable to IHT at 40%. Above 
the excess above the Nil Rate Band is chargeable at 40%. The IHT Nil Rate Band at the 
relevant time was £325,000 and was set out in the report. So, anything above this amount 
invested in the WPA wouldve been subject to an immediate IHT charge. Given one of 
Miss Rs key objectives was to minimise her tax liability, I dont think its likely she would 
have accepted to invest more than the NRB in her WPA. 
Miss R maintains she didnt receive a revised key facts WPA document with the investment 
figure of £325,000, which the adviser says was given to her (Miss R) by hand following a 
meeting held on 6 July 2017. However, I note this was the same date that Miss R signed and 
dated the cheque for the sum of £325,000 to invest in the WPA. 
Miss Rs application form also clearly had the sum of £325,000 and both her trustees signed this 
on 6 July 2017. So, on balance, I consider its more likely than not that Miss R did receive the 
updated key facts document related to the WPA. And on balance, I consider Miss R was given 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the WPA investment such that she could make 
an informed decision about the amount to invest and what charging structure to accept.
Miss R complains about what the adviser told her about the amount she could withdraw from 
her Bond in August 2019 which, at the time, the adviser said included an amount carried 
forward from the previous year but hadnt included the current year amount. But even if the 
adviser had mistakenly given Miss R the incorrect figure, she (Miss R) was told from the 
outset the percentage she could withdraw each year. She was also told directly by the 
provider how much she could withdraw in August 2019. So, from what I can see, Miss R 
hasnt suffered any loss as a result of information provided to her by the adviser.
Letter of Wishes (LoW)It was set out in the suitability report dated 28 June 2017 that it was important for Miss R to 
have a Will in place for probate purposes. Having reviewed the LoW Miss R was provided 
with, I cant say this was an incorrect or misleading document. It simply gave Miss R a 
chance to let her trustees know what her wishes were if she were to die. As the adviser said, 
if Miss R was unsure about what documentation was needed, she (Miss R) could seek legal 
advice. From what Miss R says she did consult a solicitor, so I cant see any detriment has 
been caused by the document provided to her by the adviser.
Customer service
I know Miss R is dissatisfied overall with the customer service Eagle provided. But in my 
view, it did accommodate her wishes in several instances. It could not always meet her 
deadlines, but I dont think this means it provided a poor service to her. I also note it did 
negotiate lower fees for many of the products she invested in. I know Miss R has responded 
to my provisional decision that Eagle did this for other customers, but this doesnt negate the 
fact that it also did it for Miss R. One of her key objectives was to keep costs low. And by 
negotiating lower fees for Miss R in several instances, including its own, I think Eagle fairly 
and reasonably met with this objective for her.
Miss R reiterated in her response to my provisional decision, that she considers Eagle 
should provide dated documents and record all calls. She also referred to the number of 
typos in some documents. I appreciate these are frustrating matters for her. But I cant tell 
Eagle how to run its business. Or what processes it must adopt for recording interactions 
with its clients. That is a business decision for it to make with reference to its regulatory 
duties. My role is to decide whether in Miss Rs case Eagle has acted fairly and reasonably 
and if it has not, award compensation accordingly.
For all these reasons, whilst I accept Eagle did provide Miss R with some incorrect and/ or 
unclear information during the advice process, Im satisfied that £700 is sufficient 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Eagle Financial Services Limited must pay Miss R £700 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman