DRN-4257783
The complaint
Mr E complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave him loans 
when he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
A summary of Mr Es borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 11/08/2021 12/08/2021 6 £73.23
2 Mr E withdrew from loan agreement taken on 14 August 2021
3 £200.00 16/09/2021 29/09/2021 6 £102.13
4 £500.00 05/10/2021 outstanding 12 £107.58
All of the loans were structured so that payments decreased each month. 
Following Mr Es complaint about the sale of the loans, Mr Lender wrote to him to explain 
that it wasnt going to uphold the complaint about loan 1 because it had carried out 
proportionate checks. Loan 2 was withdrawn and so Mr E didnt pay any interest and 
Mr Lender says the loan has already been removed from his credit file. 
However, for loans 3 and 4, Mr Lender accepted that it ought to have done more before it 
approved these loans, and it made an offer to settle the complaint. It agreed to refund the 
interest fees and charges applied to loan 3 along with 8% simple interest. For loan 4, it 
would reduce the outstanding balance to capital only, and then using the refund due for loan 
3 to reduce that balance further. Finally, it said it would Remove each of your loans with Mr 
Lender entirely from your credit file.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr E referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint and she said Mr Lenders offer for loans 3 and 
4 was in line with what she wouldve recommended had she upheld these loans. She also 
didnt look at loan 2 because no interest had been paid and so there was no loss. Instead, 
she looked at loan 1 and she concluded that Mr Lender hadnt made an error when it 
approved the loan. 
Mr E didnt agree saying that Mr Lender didnt verify his income and he also provided some 
information about his gambling. Overall, Mr E said had further checks been carried out than 
Mr Lender wouldnt have approved the loans. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr E could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Es income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include:
Mr E having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr E having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Es complaint and I agree, considering the number and value of the loans.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr E was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
Ive looked at whether Mr Lender did all it needed to do before it granted loan 1. Loan 2 was 
taken and repaid on the same day and Mr Lender has confirmed this was treated as 
withdrawn and so no interest was charged and it says the loan was removed from his credit 
file. And I am also not going to decide whether or not Mr Lender should have approved loans 
3 and 4 because Mr Lender has already made an offer to settle them. 
Loan 1  
Mr E declared his monthly income was £1,317. Mr E has said that had further checks been 
carried out at this time, Mr Lender wouldve seen that his income wasnt as high as what he 
declared. But, Mr Lender didnt know that at the time, and for a first loan I think it was entirely 
proportionate of Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr E had declared. 
Mr E declared monthly outgoings of £783  this was across a number of different categories 
including rent /mortgage, utilities, food, transport and other credit commitments to name a few. Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered, Mr E had 
enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment for each loan. 
Before the loan was approved, Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that, although Mr Lender carried out a credit search, there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr E wasnt insolvent either through an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the three 
years preceding each loan. 
In addition, it was also told that Mr E didnt have any other outstanding AAI loans which is 
another name for payday loans and so there was no indication that Mr E was reliant on this 
sort of credit. 
I dont think the information Mr E declared (or what Mr Lender received from the credit 
reference agency) wouldve prompted Mr Lender to have checked the information it was 
being provided. This means I dont think it wouldve needed to have reviewed Mr Es bank 
statements.  
The checks, for a small loan with a modest monthly repayment were proportionate and 
showed Mr Lender that Mr E would likely be able to afford his repayments. I am therefore not 
upholding Mr Es complaint about loan 1. 
Loan 2
As Ive said above, no interest was charged when Mr E withdrew from the loan. So, even if I 
was to uphold this loan there wouldnt be any refund due to him. Mr Lender has also 
confirmed this loan has been removed from his credit file so there wouldnt be an adjustment 
to that either. So, I say no more about it. 
Loans 3 and 4
Mr Lender has already agreed, as outlined in the final response letter to pay compensation 
for these loans. The redress it has offered is in line with what the Financial Ombudsman 
wouldve asked Mr Lender to do, had it been decided these two loans ought to not have 
been granted. I therefore dont need to make a finding on whether Mr Lender did all it ought 
to have done before providing these loans. 
As Mr Lender has already accepted something went wrong and has proposed to pay 
compensation then the offer made by Mr Lender is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the whole complaint and so this is what Mr Lender should pay Mr E in order to resolve the 
complaint.  
My final decision
PDL Finance Limited has already made an offer for loans 3 and 4, as outlined in the final 
response letter to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that PDL Finance Limited should pay Mr E this offer. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman