DRN-3190048
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain Barclays Bank UK PLC treated them unfairly when the term of 
their buy to let mortgage came to an end. Specifically, they say Barclays refused to release 
the charge they had over the property, which led to Mr L and Mrs L losing their buyer.
 
What happened
In August 2007 Mr L and Mrs L took out an interest only buy to let mortgage with Barclays
for £400,000 over a ten-year term ending in around August 2017.
By the time the term ended, Mr L and Mrs L were in negative equity. They tried to sell the 
property over the next two years, marketing it initially at over £300,000, but didnt manage to 
find a buyer. Barclays went ahead with court action to repossess the property.
Shortly before the possession hearing in September 2019, Mr L and Mrs L found a cash 
buyer. They were waiting for the buyers survey to be done before they knew how much the 
offer would be. Barclays wouldnt agree to postpone the hearing but agreed to a court order 
that possession be delayed for 56 days to give Mr L and Mrs L time to progress the sale.
In November 2019, Mr L and Mrs L accepted an offer from the buyers of £200,000. They 
proposed to Barclays that they sell the buy to let property at that price, allow Barclays to 
take a charge over another, mortgage-free residential property they owned and pay 
Barclays £100 a month until they sold the second property and could pay back the shortfall.
Barclays didnt agree to Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal and, in March 2020, Barclays refused to 
release their charge over the property to allow the sale to go ahead. Mr L and Mrs L say 
they lost the sale as a result.
Mr L and Mrs L complained to this service about Barclays actions. Since Mr L and Mrs L 
hadnt already complained to Barclays when they came to this service, Barclays were given 
time under the relevant rules to respond to their complaint which they did in July 2020.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd reviewed Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal
and after careful consideration declined it, although they didnt explain why.
Mr L and Mrs L went ahead with their complaint to this service represented by a relative 
whom Ill call Mrs J. Unfortunately, since the mortgage ended and during the complaint 
process, Mr Ls already poor health has deteriorated, and he now suffers from more 
severe cognitive impairment as well as physical difficulties. I understand Mrs L has limited 
financial knowledge and relied on Mr L to deal with things. She is also Mr Ls carer. So,  
Mr L and Mrs Ls situation is clearly very difficult.
Our investigator thought Barclays had treated Mr L and Mrs L unfairly. Barclays 
hadnt explained to them, nor to this service when our investigator asked them, why 
Mr L and Mrs Ls proposals had been rejected in March 2020. Our investigator 
initially said, in summary:
Barclays refusal to agree to Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal had caused the 
2019/2020 sale to collapse.
Barclays should have assessed the value they would have got by selling the 
property after repossessing it, before they declined the proposal. If the property 
had been repossessed and Barclays sold for £200,000 or less, Mr L and Mrs L 
would have been in a worse position, given the costs of selling. Barclays should 
have accepted the proposal.
If Barclays sold the property, the shortfall would be left unsecured and Barclays 
would probably set up an arrangement with Mr L and Mrs L to repay it over time. 
The proposal gave Barclays a guarantee of getting the shortfall back when the 
property sold, so it was better for Barclays too.
Based on the income and expenditure information Mr L and Mrs L had provided, 
which suggested their net disposable monthly income was around £75, their offer 
to make payments of £100 was reasonable and it was unlikely Barclays would be 
able to get more than that.
Barclays should get a new valuation of the property and reconsider Mr L and    
Mrs Ls proposal. If Barclays new valuation came in higher than £200,000 it 
wouldnt be unreasonable for them to reject Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal. But if the 
valuation suggested a similar value to the amount Mr L and Mrs L had been 
offered, Barclays should accept Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal if it was still available.
If the property was now sold for less than £200,000, any shortfall should be 
worked out on the basis it would have been sold for £200,000 and capped at that 
amount which he worked out was around £201,500.
Barclays should pay Mr L and Mrs L compensation of £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyd suffered.
In response to our investigators view, Barclays said, after some delay, they didnt 
agree theyd unfairly rejected the proposal as they didnt have enough information to 
verify it.
Mrs J said it was no longer possible for Mr L and Mrs L to sell the property due to their 
situation and the stress it would cause. She wanted Barclays to repossess the property in 
full and final settlement of the mortgage. And she didnt think the compensation was high 
enough.
Our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Barclays to repossess the property 
and write off the shortfall as Mr L and Mrs L owed the full balance of the mortgage. 
Even if Barclays had accepted the proposal, Mr L and Mrs L would still have been 
liable for the shortfall.
He thought if Barclays new valuation was less than £200,000, Mr L and Mrs Ls liability for 
the shortfall should be capped at the figure of around £201,500 hed worked out. But he 
said, if the valuation came in higher, he wouldnt think it unfair that Barclays hadnt 
accepted the proposal and any shortfall on sale shouldnt be limited to that amount.
Our investigator noted Barclays were willing to instruct a valuer and then discuss things 
with Mr L and Mrs L. He thought this was reasonable as it was important to determine the 
value of the property to assess any proposal.
As I understand it, Mr L and Mrs L were agreeable to this outcome. And Barclays got 
another valuation at £180,000. But there was then a long delay in Barclays responding to 
our investigators view.In March 2021, Barclays said, in summary:
Before considering anything, it required up to date income and expenditure details 
to be provided formally by Mr L and Mrs L.
It could consider taking back the property  a voluntary surrender  if Mr L and 
Mrs L completed the necessary paperwork. They noted this might be complex 
given the property was split into flats and tenanted, which might affect sale costs 
and the propertys value.
Barclays relevant panel would need to consider the suggestion the shortfall should 
be limited. They asked whether any further information was available about the 
offer Mr L and Mrs L received such as who it was from, whether it was viable and 
whether the offer of £200,000 would have remained if the valuation had come in 
lower. Theyd need more information about the property Mr L and Mrs L had 
offered as security. And they mentioned again the property being tenanted made 
things complicated.
Our investigators calculations didnt factor in that even if Mr L and Mr Ls sale 
had gone ahead, it could have taken time to complete because of the complex 
situation surrounding the property and theyd be paying interest in the meantime. 
It wouldnt be right to say those payments could reduce the shortfall.
The calculation of the shortfall also didnt take into account the costs of sale.
Our investigator tried to help progress discussions between the parties to resolve things 
but unfortunately no resolution was reached.
Since Barclays didnt accept our investigators view about how to resolve the complaint, I 
reviewed everything afresh and recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which 
follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L and Mrs Ls complaint is about how Barclays treated them at the end of the 
mortgage and specifically their refusal, in March 2020, to accept their proposal to sell the 
property for £200,000, secure the shortfall over another mortgage-free property they 
owned and make payments of £100 until the other property was sold and the sale 
proceeds could be paid to Barclays in respect of the shortfall.
A lot has happened since this service started to look at Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint, but I 
am only considering events that happened before Mr L and Mrs L brought their complaint, 
not whats happened since. Barclays mentioned they were looking into a point Mrs J 
raised that the property had been overvalued when the mortgage was taken out. That 
isnt part of the complaint Mr L and Mrs L have made and I dont consider it here.
So I could understand the complaint better, our investigator asked the parties to provide 
some more information about what had happened leading up to Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal 
to repay their mortgage. Now Ive looked at that, Ive come to conclusions which are 
different in some regards to our investigators, so Im issuing a provisional decision to give 
the parties the chance to comment before I make a final decision.The starting point in considering Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint is that the term of their buy to 
let mortgage had come to an end in 2017 and Barclays was entitled, under the terms of the 
mortgage contract, to be repaid.
Mrs J has explained Mr L and Mrs L bought the property to convert into residential units 
to let out. I need to bear in mind that the mortgaged property was an investment, not Mr L 
and Mrs Ls home. Even so, Id expect Barclays to treat Mr L and Mrs L fairly and to give 
them time to find a way to repay what they owed before repossessing the property.
Ive set out some of the background above. But given the new information and comments 
the parties have provided, I think its useful to summarise that and their arguments here. 
For ease Ive set this out under separate headings:
Mrs L and Mrs Ls arguments and evidence
Mrs Js explained Mr L and Mrs L bought the property before the financial crash in 2008. 
They were in their seventies and she says Barclays insisted on them repaying the 
mortgage when Mr L turned 80.
Mrs J says Barclays were aware Mr L and Mrs L had been trying to sell the property. She 
says they marketed it aggressively but were unsuccessful in finding a buyer. When they 
did find a buyer, after the court order had been made, Barclays then refused to agree to 
release their charge over the property even though the buyers were ready to go ahead.
Mrs J provided confirmation from Mr L and Mrs Ls solicitors that as far as they and the 
buyers solicitors were concerned, they were ready to go ahead with the sale of the 
property in March 2020. Mrs Js explained the buyers were a professional couple looking 
for an investment for their retirement. She said they first expressed interest in August 
2019 and confirmed in September how they planned to go ahead. The buyers didnt pull 
out straight away. But when Barclays didnt agree to release the charge by the end of the 
tax year, they decided to invest elsewhere.
Mrs J says Mr L and Mrs L never missed any of their mortgage payments even after the 
term came to an end. She says Barclays actions in requiring them to complete paperwork, 
attend a meeting at a branch several miles away, provide the same information about their 
income and expenditure several times and go through court proceedings has caused a 
great deal of distress to Mr L and Mrs L. Barclays refusal to allow the sale to go ahead 
has added to that. Mr Ls health condition got worse due to the stress of the situation and 
the worry Barclays would repossess and sell at auction affected his sleep.
A doctors letter from March 2019 confirms Mr Ls medical condition would get worse 
over time and that anxiety and stress affected both his physical condition and cognitive 
function.
Barclays arguments and evidence
I can see from Barclays records Mr L was in contact with Barclays from around July 2017 
to discuss paying off the mortgage.
Mr L had had the property valued at £280,000 at that time so it already had a shortfall of 
£120,000 on what he and Mrs L owed. Mr L spoke to Barclays about a repayment plan in 
August 2017. He wanted a term extension. Barclays told him it wouldnt be possible to 
extend the term as it was Barclays policy to give buy to let mortgages up to a maximum 
age of 80. The property was tenanted and in negative equity, although monthly payments 
were still being made.Barclays notes from December 2017 show their understanding then was that Mr L and   
Mrs Ls only other asset was a residential property valued then at £230,000 with an 
outstanding mortgage of £181,000. Barclays knew Mr L and Mrs L had converted the buy to 
let property into flats. They were concerned this had been done without Barclays authority 
and the conversion hadnt been properly registered.
Barclays told Mr L theyd need to instruct solicitors to check building regulations and 
planning permissions had been complied with, get the property registered, have it 
surveyed and revalued, seek independent financial advice and provide income and 
expenditure details. Barclays noted all this information would be needed if their panel 
needed to review Mr L and Mrs Ls situation and a possible sale at a shortfall.
In around February 2018, Mrs J spoke to Barclays and told them the property had gone 
on the market. They discussed completing Barclays sale at a shortfall pack and agreed
Mr L and Mrs L wouldnt it return it for the time being as they didnt know if there would be 
a shortfall. Mr L and Mrs L were continuing to make monthly interest payments.
In March 2018 Barclays asked Mr L and Mrs L to return the sale at a shortfall pack. Mrs L 
didnt want to discuss things on the basis Mr L dealt with the mortgage and she couldnt 
say then if there would be a shortfall. Mrs L told Barclays about Mr Ls health condition. 
Barclays agreed to hold off taking action until April but warned Mrs L theyd ask a field 
agent to visit to discuss things as a next step.
The property had been on the market at £320,000 since early March 2018 and by July 
there hadnt been any viewings. Barclays had tried to contact Mr L and Mrs L without 
response and Barclays were planning to instruct the field agent as theyd mentioned if   
Mr L and Mrs L didnt respond to messages Barclays had left. I understand that went 
ahead.
Barclays spoke to Mrs L in early October 2018. She confirmed there hadnt been an 
acceptable offer in the six months the property had been on the market. She said they 
couldnt afford the £3,000 it would cost to register the individual flats, but they were 
selling the property as one unit. Barclays explained they couldnt wait much longer since 
the term had expired almost 15 months previously.
Barclays sent a formal demand for payment through their solicitors in early November 
2018. Mr L asked the solicitors for more time to provide a full response and information he 
was awaiting from HMRC. Later in November the solicitors advised the property had been 
put on the market with new estate agents. They made an offer to pay an additional £250 a 
month. Barclays werent prepared to accept the offer as they calculated it would take over 
five years from maturity to pay off the loan.
In April 2019 Barclays had medical evidence about Mr Ls condition and hed given 
Mrs J authority to discuss the mortgage account.
In June 2019 Barclays considered another proposal from Mr L and Mrs L to pay £800 a 
month which was around an additional £235 based on the contractual monthly payment 
at the time. Barclays rejected that proposal too.
By the end of July 2019 Barclays felt Mr L and Mrs L had had enough time to clear the 
balance but were prepared to agree to a 56 day possession order with evidence the 
property was being marketed and if they had authority to speak to the estate agents. Since 
they thought there were still no offers on the property, Barclays instructed their solicitors to 
get a hearing date and this was scheduled for 17 September 2019.The day before the hearing, Mr L and Mrs L told Barclays they had a cash buyer who had 
done a survey and they were waiting to see how much they offered. Based on that 
information Barclays said they wouldnt adjourn the hearing, but they would ask the court 
for a 56 day possession order to give them time to sell.
Towards the end of October 2019 Mrs J said Mr L and Mrs L could offer £200,000 in full 
and final settlement of the account. Barclays didnt agree to that but asked her to put it in 
writing so it could be considered at a higher level within Barclays.
On 8 November 2019 Mrs J told Barclays about the buyers £200,000 offer. Barclays told 
her Mr L and Mrs L would need to fill in a sale on shortfall pack - as theyd discussed 
before. The forms were sent again in December 2019 but not returned.
Barclays records suggest the parties next contact was in March 2020 when the buyers 
offer of £200,000 was still on the table. Mrs J made the offer on Mr L and Mrs Ls behalf 
that the property be sold for £200,000, Barclays take a charge over Mr L and Mrs Ls 
other property and they pay £100 a month  based on the income and expenditure 
information theyd given to Barclays field agent some months before  until the property 
was sold and the shortfall could be repaid. Barclays declined the offer and this complaint 
was then made.
Barclays rejected the offer in March 2020 without giving any reasons. Theyve 
acknowledged there was some miscommunication at this time around what information 
they already had and so the proposal was rejected without going into greater detail. 
Barclays say now the amount Mr L and Mrs L were offering to pay each month was very 
low and based on previous income and expenditure information theyd provided, it didnt 
look affordable. They say they would have had to carry out a full investigation into the 
other property Mr L and Mrs L were offering as security and reviewed their financial 
position before being able to provide a definitive answer.
Barclays say that although they could have done more investigations at that time, its 
unlikely the proposal would have been acceptable to them.
As Ive mentioned already, in March 2021, in responding to the possibility of a voluntary 
surrender of the property Barclays said this would be complex given the property was 
split into flats and tenanted. They said their panel would need to consider limiting the 
shortfall. And they asked for more information about the offer Mr L and Mrs L received 
in 2019 and the property Mr L and Mrs L were offering as security for the shortfall.
My provisional findings
I can see that Barclays and Mr L and Mrs L were in contact from the time Mr L and Mrs Ls 
mortgage term ended in 2017 to discuss how they planned to pay off the mortgage. 
Barclays made it clear they wouldnt extend the term. Although Mr L and Mrs L were 
unhappy with that, Barclays gave them time to market the property.
Barclays were aware of problems with their security in December 2017. They knew the 
property had been converted without their permission and asked Mr L and Mrs L to 
resolve the issues. It looks as if Mr L and Mrs L didnt have the money available to pay for 
what was needed to do that. Its not clear, even if they had, it would have made any 
significant difference to the value of the property, if thats what Barclays were hoping.
Barclays asked Mr L and Mrs L in December 2017 to complete a sale on shortfall pack 
which presumably would have given Barclays the information they needed to consider how they could resolve things with Mr L and Mrs L. Although they agreed to delay this, in March 
2018 Barclays asked Mr L and Mrs L to send it in, which they didnt.
Barclays knew about Mr Ls ill-health by March 2018. And they were aware of Mrs Ls 
reluctance to discuss things with them. They gave Mr L and Mrs L more time to try and sell 
the property. And it wasnt until November 2018 when there hadnt been any interest in it 
that they went ahead with repossession action.
Although I can see there were some problems on occasion in getting the right 
authority, Barclays also dealt with Mrs J on Mr L and Mrs Ls behalf as they wanted.
Barclays considered some offers from Mr L and Mrs L to make higher monthly payments. 
And in October 2019 Mrs J said Mr L and Mrs L could offer £200,000 in full and final 
settlement of the account. I dont think Barclays was unreasonable in refusing those 
proposals as they didnt include a way of paying off the mortgage balance which Barclays 
is entitled to.
When Mrs J told Barclays about the buyers offer in November 2019, they told her Mr L and 
Mrs L would need to fill in a sale on shortfall pack - as theyd discussed before. Barclays 
sent the forms again in December 2019, but Mr L and Mrs L didnt return them.
Mr L and Mrs L were aware of potential buyers in August 2019. They didnt tell Barclays 
about them until the day before the repossession hearing in September. Barclays agreed 
to delay possession and even once the 56 days had passed, they didnt take possession. 
Barclays asked Mr L and Mrs L for information in December 2019 so they could consider 
the property being sold at a shortfall.
Bearing everything in mind, I think Barclays treated Mr L and Mrs L fairly and 
reasonably from when the term of the mortgage ended up to December 2019. Mr L and 
Mrs L were obliged to pay back what they owed. Barclays gave them time and kept in 
regular contact with them as Id expect.
But I think Barclays could have done more between December 2019 and March 2020 
to keep in contact with Mr L and Mrs L, knowing their difficult situation, to find out what 
was happening with the sale and to discuss the likely shortfall.
Mr L and Mrs L didnt send the shortfall form back. But Barclays already had a lot of 
information about Mr L and Mrs Ls financial situation and assets. Barclays should have 
reviewed that information, even though Mr L and Mrs L hadnt returned the form. They 
already knew about the property Mr L and Mrs L were offering as security for the shortfall. 
They should have checked whether it was mortgage free or still mortgaged as theyd 
understood it was previously. And theyd had details of Mrs L and Mrs L income and 
expenditure which I understand Mrs J had confirmed hadnt changed. Based on that, I 
think Barclays could have formed a view about how they would be prepared to resolve 
things with Mr L and Mrs L.
If, as they now say, Barclays were concerned about the sale price, and the difference 
between that and the value of the property at the time they originally lent, they could 
also have got their own valuation at the time.
Barclays should have given the proposal Mrs J put forward in March fair consideration 
and explained why they didnt agree to Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal when they rejected it in 
March 2020. Theres no evidence they did consider it. And Barclays have acknowledged 
they should have done more.At the very least, Barclays should have explained why the proposal wasnt acceptable and 
explained to Mrs J what information they needed for it to be considered at higher level and 
how long that would take. Bearing in mind Barclays already had much of the information 
they required  or should have asked for it sooner  I think anything more they needed 
could have been provided by Mrs J relatively quickly, including for example information 
about the buyers, to work out the likelihood of the sale completing as theyve asked 
recently.
If Barclays had communicated with Mrs J she would have been able to manage the 
buyers expectations. Given the buyers didnt pull out of the sale immediately after 
Barclays refused to release their charge, and Mr L and Mrs Ls solicitors have confirmed 
to Mrs J the parties were ready to go ahead, with better communication I think the sale 
could have been saved.
It is difficult to see how refusing to allow the sale to go through was in either partys best 
interests. Mr L and Mrs Ls financial position and their ability to repay the mortgage was 
the same whether they sold the property or whether Barclays repossessed the property 
and sold it themselves. Mr L and Mrs L had limited scope to make any payments towards 
the shortfall from their income and it would have had to be repaid by releasing whatever 
equity there was in their other property. As I understand it, thats still the position.
In summary, I think Barclays failed to give Mr L and Mrs Ls proposal proper 
consideration. Knowing their difficult situation, they should have kept in contact with Mr L 
and Mrs L from December 2019. They should have looked into Mr L and Mrs Ls 
financial position sooner even though they hadnt returned the sale on shortfall form. And 
they should have checked the value of the property if they were concerned about it by 
getting their own valuation. I think Barclays refusal to allow the sale to go through was 
unfair.
Putting things right
Mrs J says now that Mr L and Mrs L want to try and sell the property again. I think thats 
fair given theyre assisted by Mrs J and have shown a past willingness to sell the property 
and repay the mortgage using the assets and income available to them.
Before the sale goes ahead, I think an up to date valuation should be obtained from a 
valuer agreed upon by the parties and Barclays should meet the cost of that valuation. 
The parties should then agree upon an estate agent to market the property and the price 
at which the property should be marketed.
I think Mr L and Mrs L should have a period of six months from the estate agent being 
instructed in which to find a buyer and a further three months in which to complete the 
sale, a total of nine months.
Mr L and Mrs L should control the sale but any change in the asking price should only 
be made on the recommendation of the estate agent. Mr L and Mrs L should keep 
Barclays updated and allow Barclays direct contact with the estate agent.
Id note here I found it difficult to decide how best to address how the price is set. What 
Ive said reflects that if theres no interest in the property the price may have to be 
reduced. If either party has a concern about what Ive proposed, I am happy to consider 
their alternative proposals.If Mr L and Mrs L dont find a buyer within six months, or complete within three months of 
the six-month period expiring, I think its fair for Barclays to repossess the property and sell 
it at auction.
I think its fair too that the shortfall Mr L and Mrs L are responsible for should be capped 
as if the property had been sold for the £200,000 their previous buyers had offered to pay 
given how close the sale got to going ahead. If the property now sells for a higher amount, 
their shortfall will, of course, be reduced.
The shortfall will include any reasonable costs of sale Barclays incur, in the event they 
repossess and sell the property. If Mr L and Mrs L sell the property, they will have to 
meet the costs of sale.
Mrs L and Mrs L will need to continue to make their contractual monthly interest 
payments until the property is sold and the sale completes. If they dont, they will be 
added to the shortfall.
Barclays were aware of Mr Ls medical condition from April 2019, and the doctors letter 
makes clear the negative impact of stress on his condition. Mrs J has kept Barclays up to 
date with his health and that of Mrs L who cares for him. Ive no doubt the worries about 
paying back the mortgage and continuing to manage a tenanted property have taken their 
toll on Mr L and Mrs L and I think Barclays actions from December 2019 have contributed 
to that. I think its fair for Barclays to pay Mr L and Mrs L £600 compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience, and the impact on Mr Ls health.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is to make the following directions:
1. Barclays Bank UK PLC shall arrange and pay for an up to date valuation from 
a valuer agreed with Mr L and Mrs L.
2. Barclays Bank UK PLC and Mr L and Mrs L shall agree upon an estate agent to 
market the property and the price at which the property will be marketed based 
on the valuation and the advice of the estate agent.
3. Mr L and Mrs L shall control the sale of the property but shall only change the price 
at which it is being marketed on the advice of the estate agent. They should 
authorise the estate agent to be in direct contact with Barclays to keep them up to 
date with progress on the marketing of the property.
4. If Mr L and Mrs L fail to find a buyer within six months or, having found a buyer 
within six months fail to complete on the sale of the property within three months 
after that six-month period, a total of nine months, Barclays may repossess the 
property.
5. Any shortfall on the sale of the property whether by Mr L and Mrs L or by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC will be capped as if the property had been sold for a minimum of 
£200,000.
The shortfall will include any reasonable costs of sale Barclays pay. If the property 
is sold for more than £200,000 the shortfall will be the difference between the sale 
price and what Mr L and Mrs L owe on their mortgage account plus any reasonable 
costs of sale Barclays pay.
6. Mr L and Mrs L should continue to make their contractual monthly payments until 
the sale of the property has been completed.7. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr L and Mrs L £600 compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience, and the impact on Mr Ls health.
Developments
In response to the provisional decision Mrs J told us Mr L and Mrs L had put the property 
back on the market and theyve since had an offer of £270,000. Mrs J said she planned to 
accept the offer on Mr L and Mrs Ls behalf.
Details of the offer have been sent to Barclays. Mrs J has commented that if Barclays 
wont agree to release the charge to allow the sale to go through, Mr L and Mrs L will be in 
the same position as they were previously. She says the offer is enough for Mr L and    
Mrs L to be able to pay off the Barclays mortgage as theres enough equity in their other 
property to clear any shortfall. 
Barclays agreed to the shortfall being limited in line with my provisional decision. Before 
agreeing to the sale going ahead, Barclays said they have some requirements.
They want an up to date valuation of the property over which their mortgage is 
secured on the basis the last valuation they had was for £180,000 and its value 
has increased. They said they could arrange for that to happen through their 
panel surveyors.
To decide whether to accept Mr L and Mrs Ls proposals for paying the shortfall, 
they wanted details of the second property and evidence it is on the market. 
They also wanted to arrange for a charging order to be put on that property.
Barclays agreed to pay Mr L and Mrs L the £600 compensation I said I intended to award.
Mrs J didnt think it was necessary to get another valuation of the mortgaged property. 
She provided details of the second property and said Mr L and Mrs L would agree to a 
charging order being put in place over it. And she said the tenants have been given notice 
to vacate the property, which will expire in March 2022 and their plan is to market the 
property in April 2022 when it will be empty and can be decorated to achieve the best 
price. 
Barclays want to consider further the proposed delay in marketing the second property but 
have instructed solicitors to make some enquiries about the property in the meantime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the parties responses to my provisional decision. They havent said 
anything which causes me to change my mind substantively about my provisional findings. 
But since the circumstances relating to the sale of the property have moved on, Ive taken 
that into consideration in deciding how I think things should be put right.
I think its fair that Barclays should be reassured about the value of the mortgaged property. 
If they arent prepared to agree to the sale going through at the price that has now been 
offered or the sale falls through, there needs to be a mechanism for the property to be 
marketed again.
I said any valuation should be provided by a surveyor agreed upon by the parties. If Mr L and Mrs L agree Barclays panel surveyors can provide that valuation, I imagine it can be 
arranged fairly quickly. If they dont the parties will need to agree upon an independent 
chartered surveyor to carry out the valuation. I dont see any reason to change my mind 
about the direction I planned to make about this.
Its also reasonable for Barclays to be satisfied the price at which the property was marketed 
is fair. Mrs J has gone ahead on Mr L and Mrs Ls behalf with estate agents of her own 
choosing. Mr L and Mrs L should authorise the estate agents to speak to Barclays direct so 
they can reassure themselves the estate agents are appropriate to market the property and 
the price at which they advertised the property was fair. If Barclays arent happy with the 
arrangement or the advertised sale price, the parties will need to agree on alternative estate 
agents. 
My provisional decision said Mr L and Mrs L would have control over the sale. So, once 
theres agreement about the valuation, the estate agents and the asking price, it is up to 
them if they accept an offer at less than the asking price. 
Id encourage Barclays to take a pragmatic approach here to avoid any unnecessary delay. 
Enquiries of the estate agent Mr L and Mr L have appointed as well as other local estate 
agents may reassure them the property has been advertised at a fair price and allow the 
sale thats already progressing to go ahead.
I dont think I need to make any directions about Mr L and Mrs Ls plans to pay the shortfall. 
Barclays require Mr L and Mrs L to vacate the mortgaged property because the mortgage 
term has ended. Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint here is about Barclays failure to release the 
charge over the mortgaged property to allow an earlier sale theyd arranged to go through. I 
understand Barclays concerns about how the shortfall will be paid. But those concerns 
would remain whether or not Mr L and Mrs L had a second property.
So, I cant see any reason to hold up the sale of the mortgaged property while Barclays 
investigate whether the value in the second property will cover the shortfall. If it doesnt, they 
will have to discuss other ways of paying the shortfall with Mr L and Mrs L, as they would 
have done if the second property didnt exist. 
Mrs J says Mr L and Mrs L will agree to a charging order being put on the second property. I 
think the parties can agree that between themselves. But I wouldnt expect Barclays to pass 
on to Mr L and Mrs L any of the costs associated with their investigation or arranging the 
charging order. Since Barclays will be protected by the charging order, Mr L and Mrs Ls 
proposals for selling the second property once the tenants have vacated and the property 
has been decorated seem reasonable. 
Putting things right
I see no reason to change my mind about the directions I made in my provisional decision 
other than to reflect the up to date situation.  
My final decision
I make the following directions:
1) If Barclays Bank UK PLC arent prepared to accept the price at which the 
property has been marketed or the sale falls through, they shall arrange and 
pay for an up to date valuation from a valuer agreed with Mr L and Mrs L.
2) If Barclays Bank UK PLC arent prepared to agree that the estate agents    
Mr L and Mrs L have appointed should continue to market the property, they and Mr L and Mrs L shall agree upon an alternative estate agent to market 
the property and the price at which the property will be marketed based on 
the valuation and the advice of the estate agent.
3) Mr L and Mrs L shall control the sale of the property but shall only change the 
price at which it is being marketed on the advice of the estate agent the parties 
have agreed should market the property. They should authorise the estate agent 
to be in direct contact with Barclays Bank UK PLC to keep them up to date with 
progress on the marketing of the property.
4) If Mr L and Mrs Ls current sale doesnt proceed and they fail to find a buyer 
within six months of the parties agreeing on the estate agent or, having found a 
buyer within six months of the parties agreeing on the estate agent, fail to 
complete on the sale of the property within three months after that six-month 
period, a total of nine months, Barclays Bank UK PLC may take action to 
repossess the property.
5) Any shortfall on the sale of the property whether by Mr L and Mrs L or by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC will be capped as if the property had been sold for a 
minimum of £200,000.
The shortfall will include any reasonable costs of sale Barclays Bank UK PLC 
pay. If the property is sold for more than £200,000 the shortfall will be the 
difference between the sale price and what Mr L and Mrs L owe on their 
mortgage account plus any reasonable costs of sale Barclays pay.
6) Mr L and Mrs L should continue to make their contractual monthly payments 
until the sale of the property has been completed.
7) Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr L and Mrs L £600 compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience, and the impact on Mr Ls health, within 28 days of 
them accepting this decision should they choose to do so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman