DRN-3304667
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) havent refunded a series of 
transactions made from his current account which he says he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise himself.
What happened
Mr W contacted Barclays in 2018 and 2019 to report a series of gambling transactions made 
between August 2018 and May 2019. In total, Mr W has disputed more than 300 
transactions to a series of different gambling companies totalling more than £53,000:
11 August 2018 to 21 September 2018 247 transactions totalling £39,870
13 May 2019 to 14 May 2019 58 transactions totalling £13,800
Mr W has said that someone else made these payments without his consent and he 
requested that Barclays refund them to him.
Barclays initially reviewed Mr Ws claim in late 2019  but it only considered some of the 
disputed transactions at this stage. It only considered the transactions made between 13 
May 2019 and 14 May 2019. And it told Mr W it wouldnt be refunding him because it 
believed the transactions had been authorised by him. This stance was repeated in Barclays 
final response after Mr W raised a complaint about how it had handled his fraud claim. 
As Mr W remained unhappy with the situation, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator noticed that Barclays hadnt addressed some of the transactions that Mr W 
had disputed by the time Mr W contacted our service. So, after some additional clarification, 
Barclays agreed for our service to consider the remaining disputed gambling transactions 
which took place between August 2018 and September 2018 as well as the ones theyd 
already responded to as part of this complaint which I have detailed above.
Im also aware Mr W has complained about a third set of transactions to a series of e-money 
service providers. However, these are yet to be addressed by Barclays  so they will form 
the subject of a separate complaint and I wont be commenting on them further here. What 
Mr W has said to our service and Barclays
Mr W has said he didnt make any of the gambling transactions.
Hes told us that he lives with his mother, and at the time of the disputed 
transactions, he was self-employed. So, he doesnt think anyone wouldve been able 
to access his personal belongings such as his wallet or mobile phone.
He remembers not having a debit card for a number of months  but wasnt 
completely sure when this was. 
He has made some genuine gambling transactions previously  but with a completely 
different company.
What Barclays has said to our service
All of the disputed gambling transactions were made online  meaning only the card 
details were needed to process them. 
Barclays made a series of data requests to four different gambling companies 
involved in the dispute. All of these companies (who Ill refer to as A/B/C and D) 
responded to the requests and between them, provided the following information:
- Companies A, B and C provided information which showed the accounts were 
opened using the same information (name, address, date of birth, email address 
and phone number) that Barclays held for Mr W. Barclays didnt think that a third-
party fraudster intending to defraud Mr W wouldve have used his genuine 
contact details when opening these accounts as this risked Mr W becoming 
aware that accounts had been opened in his name. Company D couldnt provide 
any information outside of confirming the account was in Mr Ws name.
- All four companies also confirmed no withdrawals were ever made on the 
accounts. So, if fraud had been committed and Mr Ws identity stolen, the third-
party fraudster had received no benefit from their actions.
- Company A also provided copies of a series of emails in which someone asks 
why theyre unable to deposit more money into the gambling account. The emails 
stem from two different email addresses  one of which was the one used to 
open the account and is the same email address that Barclays holds for Mr W. 
Companies A and B were also able to provide evidence of the IP addresses used to 
access their websites/services on the following dates:
- 20 September 2018 to 21 September 2018
- 11 May 2019 to 12 May 2019
Barclays has pointed out that these IP addresses are identical to the ones used to 
access Mr Ws online/mobile banking during the same timeframes as listed above. 
Mr W hasnt made Barclays aware of anyone else being able to access his 
online/mobile banking.
Barclays says that Mr W has accessed his online/mobile banking on multiple 
occasions during both periods of disputed activity. This access is all carried out from 
the device Mr W appears to have been using as far back as March 2018. However, 
Mr W didnt contact Barclays about the transactions at the time. Barclays says this 
suggests Mr W was aware of the transactions and didnt have concerns about them.
Overall, Barclays believe Mr W has authorised the disputed transactions and so it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to refund them to him now.  
Our investigator initially reviewed the transactions that took place between 13 May 2018 and 
14 May 2018. Having done so, he agreed with Barclays that the most likely scenario was 
that Mr W had authorised them and so it wouldnt be fair for Barclays to offer him a refund 
now. Our investigator said:  
He didnt think a fraudster wouldve been able to obtain everything which was needed 
to make the payments without Mr Ws knowledge. This included, but wasnt limited 
to, Mr Ws bank card details and mobile phone.
The type of transaction being disputed wasnt out of character for the account as Mr 
W had a record of making payments to gambling companies previously.
The evidence hed seen from the gambling companies showed the accounts were set 
up using all of Mr Ws genuine details. The accounts were also accessed using either 
the same or similar IP addresses to the ones used to access Mr Ws online/mobile banking. He didnt think it was likely a fraudster wouldve used all of Mr Ws genuine 
details to open the gambling accounts  as this would create a risk of being caught. 
He also highlighted that the email chain which had been provided by one of the 
gambling companies was sent from the same email address that Mr W has been 
using to correspond with our service. Its unclear how a fraudster would also have 
access to Mr Ws email address in order to send such emails.
In a follow up view, our investigator then addressed the remaining disputed transactions 
which took place between 11 August 2018 and 21 September 2018. Again, he was 
persuaded the most likely scenario was that Mr W had authorised the transactions. This was 
for several of the same reasons that Ive just highlighted above. But in addition to this, our 
investigator also said:
There wouldve been no benefit to a fraudster in using Mr Ws card details to process 
these transactions. This is because the gambling websites wouldve most likely paid 
any winnings back to the same account. And as there was no indication that anyone 
else wouldve had access to Mr Ws bank card and/or banking details in order to 
access this money  he couldnt see how a fraudster wouldve financially benefitted 
from their fraud or why they would have gone to the lengths of stealing Mr Ws 
personal information to set up accounts for no obvious gain.  
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. In response, he provided some additional 
comments:
He referred to a third party (a previous business partner) who has left him in debt. 
Whilst its not completely clear if hes referring to the same person or not, hes also 
suggested that a third party mayve carried out these transactions as an act of 
revenge. This is a newly introduced scenario as initially Mr W told us that he was 
self-employed and he lived with his mother and so he didnt think anyone else 
wouldve had access to his card, phone and wallet.
Mr W pointed out that the IP addresses used to make the transactions dont appear 
to match with the IP address of his home address. He also doesnt think IP address 
evidence is enough to prove he authorised any transactions. He also asked that we 
review the entire account history for his online/mobile banking to show how the 
account was being run.
Mr W has said neither this service or Barclays have been able to prove the 
transactions were made by him
He says he didnt contact the gambling company  even though one of the email 
addresses used is associated with him. This leads him to think his email address has 
been compromised and someone else has been able to gain access to it. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr W requested an ombudsmans decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Barclays has acted reasonably when holding Mr W liable for 
the disputed transactions. Ill explain why in more detail below.The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs). The PSRs set out when a customer should be held liable for transactions which 
happen on their account and when they shouldnt. 
The starting position is that a customer is liable for authorised transactions and a bank is 
liable if theyre unauthorised. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer has 
authorised the transactions or not, the bank would be expected to provide evidence as to 
why theyre holding their customer liable.
As a result, my role is to weigh up the information made available to me and decide whether 
I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr W responsible for the disputed 
transactions. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service. It 
is not a court of law. And it is my role to decide what I think is most likely to have happened 
based on the evidence Ive seen. It is not to conclusively prove that Mr W made the 
transactions now in dispute in order to allow Barclays to hold him liable for them  as Mr W 
has suggested. When deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive considered all the possible 
scenarios and decided on the balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely to have 
happened. Having done so, Im satisfied that the most likely scenario here is that the 
transactions were authorised by Mr W. Ill explain why below.
Firstly, I note Barclays requested information from the four gambling companies 
where the transactions were made. Companies A, B and C have provided 
documented evidence to Barclays which shows that the gambling accounts were all 
set up with the same information. This includes Mr Ws genuine name, address, date 
of birth, phone number and email address. All of which mirror the details both this 
service and Barclays hold for him. Company D couldnt provide as much detail due 
the time thats elapsed. However, it was still able to confirm the account was in Mr 
Ws name. 
I appreciate that Mr W has indicated that someone mayve found a way to obtain his 
personal information, such as his business partner, and used it to set-up these 
accounts. But Im not persuaded this is whats happened here. Im not persuaded 
that a fraudster, having gone to the lengths of taking Mr Ws bank card without him 
knowing, wouldve registered Mr Ws genuine contact details when setting up multiple 
fraudulent accounts in his name as this wouldve significantly increased their risk of 
exposure. For example, its not unreasonable to assume that once the gambling 
accounts had been registered; emails, or text messages wouldve been sent to the 
contact details each gambling company held on file to confirm any substantive 
activity on the account i.e each time a deposit was made. And so its unlikely that a 
fraudster intent on keeping their activity a secret would choose to set up fraudulent 
accounts using Mr Ws genuine contact details when they couldve used their own. 
I also note that emails were sent to Company A from Mr Ws email address in May 
2019 asking why the account in question was no longer able to accept deposits. 
Again, I appreciate Mr W has said he wasnt the one to send these emails and that 
he thinks his email address mayve been compromised. But Im not persuaded thats 
the case either. I say this because Im not sure why a third-party fraudster would take 
the time to hack Mr Ws email address to prevent Mr W becoming aware of what 
was happening. Firstly, its unclear how Mr Ws password for his email account 
couldve been compromised and secondly, as previously mentioned, it wouldve been 
easier for the fraudster to have simply to have used a different email address when 
opening the gambling accounts in the first instance.
 All four gambling companies also confirmed that no withdrawals were ever attempted 
on the disputed accounts. I accept there could be different reasons as to why this is 
the case. For example, the bets which were placed may not have been successful. 
But, even if some winnings had been won, its likely these wouldve had to have been 
paid back to Mr Ws linked bank account. As a result, Im not satisfied there wouldve 
been a clear or obvious benefit to a third-party fraudster carrying out this activity from 
the outset. I do appreciate Mr W has referred to someone perhaps having carried out 
these transactions to gain some form of revenge. But again, Im not persuaded this is 
most likely what happened. I havent seen any further information or evidence that 
supports this scenario. And Mr W initially told us that it wasnt possible for anyone 
other than him, and potentially his mother, to have access to all of the information 
they would need to place these transactions. Im satisfied that had this been a 
significant possibility it wouldve been suggested sooner than it ultimately was. This is 
coupled with what Ive already said above about it being unlikely that a third-party 
wouldve supplied genuine contact details if they wished their activity to remain a 
secret. 
Companies A and B were also able to provide additional technical information, such 
as the IP addresses used to either register or access the relevant gambling accounts. 
The IP addresses used are the same ones used to access Mr Ws mobile banking 
over the same period. For example, Company B has shown the gambling account 
was accessed on one occasion at 11:30pm on 20 September 2018. Four minutes 
later, Mr Ws mobile banking is subsequently accessed from the exact same IP 
address. I would add that this mobile banking access came from a device which Im 
persuaded belongs to Mr W. Barclays records show this same device had been used 
consistently in the year and a half leading up to the disputed transactions. This 
means that whoever was carrying out activity on Company Bs gambling account was 
in the very same location as the person who was also accessing Mr Ws mobile 
banking using his known device. And given the short turnaround time between both 
events, Im satisfied that its most likely the same person carrying out both sets of 
activity. Ive not seen any evidence that anyone other than Mr W had access to his 
mobile banking details (such as his passcode) nor had access to the mobile phone 
itself. As a result, I cant fairly say this is just a coincidence and so Im satisfied that 
the most likely scenario is that this was Mr W.
I understand Mr W has said the IP addresses in question dont match the ones in the 
area that he lives in. He has also mentioned that IP addresses can be mimicked  
and so this issue doesnt prove he was the one carrying out this activity. I accept this 
is a possibility  but Im not persuaded its the most likely one. Ive previously 
questioned why someone would go to such great lengths as to hack Mr Ws emails 
 and I think the same question is applicable here as well. There doesnt appear to 
be any logical explanation as to why a third-party wouldve tampered with things like 
IP addresses or hacked Mr Ws mobile banking  especially when the same third-
party wouldve already had Mr Ws card details and therefore couldve chosen to 
make purchases if theyd wanted to do so rather than place gambling transactions 
which they could not benefit from.
Mr Ws mobile banking is also continually accessed throughout the period of disputed 
activity.  For example, between 11 August 2018 and 21 September 2018, Barclays 
evidence shows Mr Ws mobile banking was accessed on 68 separate occasions. I 
find it unlikely that all of these separate logins could be associated with someone 
other than Mr W  he himself initially told us this wouldnt be possible.  The volume of transactions as well as the total amount being spent during this same 
period was substantial. And so Im also satisfied it wouldve been noticeable each 
time the mobile banking account was accessed. However, theres no indication that 
Mr W ever reported what was happening on the account to Barclays until each period 
of disputed transactions had come to an end. And given Mr W has told our 
investigator that no-one else had access to his mobile phone Im therefore satisfied 
that it could only be Mr W who was accessing the mobile banking and consequently 
authorising the transactions as well. 
Whilst the values might differ, I can see Mr W has made noticeable amounts of 
undisputed transactions to similar merchants which indicates this type of 
merchant/transaction type wouldnt be unusual for his account.  
In summary, for me to be persuaded by what Mr W has said, Id have to be persuaded that a 
third-party (either known or unknown) to Mr W:
obtained Mr Ws card details
gained knowledge of all of Mr Ws personal details  such as his address and date of 
birth
gained access to Mr Ws email account
gained access to Mr Ws mobile banking credentials as well as gaining access to his 
mobile phone itself; and, 
completed all of the above without Mr W noticing, and exposed themselves to the 
real prospect of discovery by Mr W for no obvious benefit to themselves
So overall I dont think its plausible that someone other than Mr W wouldve been able to 
access all of the things need to complete these transactions or take this level of risk for no 
benefit. Instead, Im satisfied the most likely scenario here is that Mr W has made the 
transactions himself and now regrets them. 
For the reasons above, Im satisfied Barclays have acted reasonably in holding Mr W liable 
for the transactions and I wont be asking it to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman