DRN-2518347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how Automobile Association Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited (AA) handled a claim made on their home insurance.
What happened
A neighbours car damaged Mr and Mrs Ps property. Mr and Mrs P contacted AA to make a 
claim the following day. AA assessed the damage a week later noting there was damage to 
the outer skin brickwork and rainwater downpipe. Mr P felt the collision had caused cracks in 
the ceiling and walls on the first floor. AA said a structural engineer would need to confirm 
that cracks were caused by the collision.
Around two weeks after AAs assessment, Mr P called AA and complained because the 
repair work hadnt started. A week later, AA contacted Mr and Mrs P offering them a cash 
settlement or for its contractors to carry out the repairs. Mr P was unhappy the scope of work 
didnt include the cracks to the first floor and AA said that a second survey would be 
necessary, which took place about a month after the collision.
About three weeks after the second survey, Mr P contacted AA who said it would like to 
undertake a third site visit. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy about this as it would cause further 
delays. Ten days later, when calling for another update, AA told Mr and Mrs P the third 
survey was not now required. But Mr P was still unhappy the scope of work didnt include 
repairing the cracks to the first floor. AA then told Mr and Mrs P that the scope of work 
wouldnt be amended to include the first floor, but then reversed its decision as a goodwill 
gesture.
AAs final response letter said it accepted Mr and Mrs Ps claim could have been progressed 
more efficiently. It said it would include the first floor cracking in the scope of work even 
though it didnt think it was related to the collision. It said Mr and Mrs P would only need to 
pay £175 of their £350 excess. And £175 of the £350 excess theyd already paid was 
returned to them.
AA completed the repairs to Mr and Mrs Ps house around four months after the collision. Mr 
and Mrs P didnt think the compensation theyd been given was enough and brought their 
complaint to us. They were unhappy theyd not received back the remainder of their excess 
when their neighbours insurer had immediately accepted liability. Mr P told us hed sent and 
received more than 60 emails in pursuit of the claim.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. He thought AA should pay Mr and Mrs P a further 
£400 compensation in addition to the return of the rest of their excess. He didnt think AA 
should consider the work to the first floor as compensation because a structural engineer 
hadnt confirmed the cause of the damage.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with this view and wanted more compensation.
AA didnt agree with the view either. It said the delay was caused by Mr and Mrs P disputing 
the original scope of work. It didnt think Mr and Mrs P should be paid more compensation as 
it had already paid back the first £175 of their excess and - in October 2019 - paid them a 
further £175 compensation as a gesture towards their inconvenience.
AA also said its in-house surveyors had been able to conclude the cracking to the first floor 
wasnt consistent with a minor impact at ground floor level without needing to consult a 
structural engineer. But despite this, AA said it had repaired the cracking, which cost it 
£285.32.
The case was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
Mr and Mrs P provided me with video footage of the collision. After checking bank records, 
Mr and Mrs P also confirmed that theyd received back the outstanding £175 of their excess 
about eight months after theyd paid it to AAs contractor. AA provided me with further 
explanation of why it felt the cracks to the first floor hadnt been caused by the collision.
My provisional decision
After considering all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint by requiring AA to pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation in addition to what it had 
paid already, which was not as much as the amount set out in our investigators view. 
I explained my provisional decision in the following way:
Mr and Mrs P dispute AAs opinion that the cracks to the first floor werent caused by the 
impact. The video footage shows the neighbours car damaged their home with a degree of 
force.
AA say that if the first floor cracks had been caused by the impact, there would have been a 
transference of energy from the site of the impact to the cracking on the first floor. And this 
energy transference would have caused continuous cracking from the point of impact (point 
A) to the cracking on the first floor (point D). AA said there was no such cracking. It said that 
the energy from the impact at point A wouldnt have skipped points and B and C to then 
cause cracking on the first floor at point D. And from the photos, I can only see cracking to 
the external brickwork from the point of impact to the height of the top of the downstairs 
window and no higher. AA also said that there could be a number of potential causes of the 
cracks such as different materials expanding and contracting at different rates.
Im persuaded on balance by AAs explanation. So I dont think the first floor cracks were 
caused by the collision and I dont think then that AA needed to repair them as part of Mr 
and Mrs Ps claim. I think as well, AA was able to reach its conclusion about the cause of the 
first floor cracks from the photos of the damage and without consulting a structural engineer. 
But I think AA could have done more to progress Mr and Mrs Ps claim more quickly than it 
did. There was about a month between AAs second survey Mr and Mrs P being told a third 
survey wouldnt be necessary. And whilst AA may not have proposed a third visit had Mr and 
Mrs P not contested the scope of work, I think it could have reached a decision on this 
sooner than it did.
A number of the updates given to Mr and Mrs P by AA appear to have been triggered by 
calls and emails from Mr and Mrs P. I think AA could have done more to keep Mr and Mrs P 
updated about the progress of their claim. And by not doing so caused Mr and Mrs P trouble 
and upset.
So I intend to award Mr and Mrs P a further £150 for their trouble and upset, which I think is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the delays and for Mr and Mrs P needing to contact AA as much as they did for updates. I appreciate this is less than Mr and Mrs P wanted. But 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs P have now received back all of their excess, that AA 
has already paid Mr and Mrs P £175 compensation, and that AA undertook work to Mr and 
Mrs Ps home that it didnt need to carry out as part of their claim.
During our investigation Mr and Mrs P said a shrub was damaged in the collision which 
theyd had to replace. Mr P also said AA had accused him of lying and prevented him from 
speaking to anyone other than a particular call handler. Mr P was also concerned about the
impact the claim would have on his future premiums and credit score. I am unable to 
consider these points as part of this decision because they werent raised as part of Mr and 
Mrs Ps original complaint. If Mr and Mrs P wish to pursue these points further, they should 
first raise them with AA if they havent already done so.
Responses to my provisional decision
AA accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further information arguments. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept my provisional decision.
 
Mr and Mrs P said my provisional decision included statements and arguments they were 
hearing for the first time. One purpose of a provisional decision is to give both parties a 
further chance to comment ahead of an ombudsman making a final decision. So Mr and Mrs 
P have been given the opportunity to respond to the statements and arguments included in 
my provisional decision.
 
Mr and Mrs P said they knew the collision caused the cracks because they say there was 
no cracking prior to the collision. They said the impact was considerable and that the 
damage to their upstairs was caused by a shock wave of energy from the impact. They 
didnt feel cracking indicated the extent of the damage in the bedroom and said there was 
plaster and some brickwork that fell onto the carpet.
Mr and Mrs Ps response said the AA surveyor was shown the cracking from the damaged 
wall that went the full width of the garage and the cracking upwards into the bedroom. Mr 
and Mrs P said the surveyor didnt see the full extent of the cracking to the upstairs direct 
from the impact wall as this was obscured by two large wardrobes and was only seen when 
the wardrobes were later moved.
 
Mr and Mrs P sent further photos, which they say show that the cracking to the upstairs 
came directly from the point of impact. Mr and Mrs P said it was invalid to say that there 
wasnt any continuous cracking from the point of impact.
 
Ive reviewed the photos. The photos show horizontal cracks across Mr and Mrs Ps internal 
garage wall, vertical cracks in their dining room internal wall and cracking to the upstairs 
internal bedroom walls. But the photos Mr and Mrs P provided dont persuade me the 
upstairs cracking was caused by the collision.  The photos show cracks, but I dont think they 
demonstrate that the cause of the cracks was the collision.  AA also said the cracking to the 
upstairs of Mr and Mrs Ps house could have had a number of other potential causes. So I 
still cant say - on balance - that the collision caused the damage to the upstairs of Mr and 
Mrs Ps house. 
 
Mr and Mrs P said in their response they didnt think AA could decide the cause of the 
cracking without a site visit from a structural engineer. Mr and Mrs Ps response didnt 
provide any new information as to why they thought this. And because Id already discussed 
this point in my provisional decision, my finding remains unchanged. So I think AA was able 
to make a decision about the cause of the damage to the upstairs from the photos. Mr and Mrs P didnt think the compensation Id provisionally awarded was enough. But 
because Mr and Mrs Ps responses havent persuaded me that the upstairs cracking was 
caused by the impact, I still think the work AA carried out to the upstairs of Mr and Mrs Ps 
property should be taken into account when deciding fair and reasonable compensation. Mr 
and Mrs Ps response didnt provide any further, new information or arguments about why 
they felt their compensation should be increased. So I still think £150 - in addition to the 
£175 AA has already paid them and the work AA carried out to the upstairs of their property - 
is fair and reasonable compensation for their trouble and upset.
Mr and Mrs P said in their response there were other repairs they needed to carry out which 
could have been added to the claim but which they repaired themselves. If Mr and Mrs P 
wish to pursue this further, they should first raise the matter with AA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses received to my provisional decision. 
AA has accepted my provisional decision and Mr and Mrs Ps responses havent persuaded 
me to depart from my provisional findings. So, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint in line with my provisional decision and for largely the same reasons. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
I instruct Automobile Association Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and 
Mrs P £150 for their trouble and upset in addition to what it has paid Mr and Mrs P already.
Automobile Association Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs P accept my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman