DRN-1978374
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that  HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) allowed two direct debits to be debited to 
his bank account although he had previously given instructions to cancel them. 
What happened
Mr E holds a bank account with HSBC and gave instructions to cancel a direct debit to a 
leisure operator. A few months later two direct debits to the leisure operator were taken from 
his bank account. Mr E tried telephoning HSBC but was unable to complete the call and as a 
result had to visit his branch of HSBC to sort the problem out. The direct debit payments 
were refunded but Mr E felt HSBC shouldnt have allowed the direct debits to have been 
taken from his account as he had given instructions to cancel them. Mr E wants to be 
compensated for his time and the inconvenience this has caused him. 
HSBC says it was the leisure company who reinstated the direct debit and they have 
refunded Mr E under the direct debit guarantee scheme as soon as they knew of the 
problem. HSBC says it  has carried out their obligations under the direct debit scheme rules. 
HSBC say it has no record of the prolonged phone call with Mr E which resulted in him 
visiting the bank to sort out the issue nor was there any record of any telephony issues at 
that time. HSBC dont feel they need to reimburse Mr E for his time. 
Mr E wasnt happy with their response  and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr Es complaint as he 
felt HSBC had refunded the direct debit payments as soon as they become aware. The 
investigator didnt feel that HSBC needed to make a compensation payment to Mr E as there 
was no evidence to support that Mr E tried making several phone calls and was forced into 
visiting the branch to sort the problem out himself.  
Mr E wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision. 
When considering  Mr Es complaint, I have looked at whether Mr E was financially 
disadvantaged as a result of the cancelled direct debits being debited to his bank account 
and if HSBC should compensate him for his time when taking steps to put this right. 
I can see that it would be frustrating for Mr E to see the direct debit he asked to be cancelled 
debiting his account a few months later. There is no question that the direct debit was 
cancelled by Mr E  and both HSBC and the leisure provider have confirmed this. The direct 
debit system gives the originator the flexibility to control the collection of monies from 
customers account. To protect customers HSBC, like all banks are part of the guarantee 
scheme which means that any payment incorrectly collected by the originator will be 
refunded. This is what happened here. 
While HSBC cancelled the direct debit as instructed, it didnt anticipate that the leisure 
provider would set this up again in error and collect further payments. Mr E says that HSBC 
shouldnt have allowed the direct debit to go through after he cancelled the payment, they 
have pointed out the originator initiated this, and they refunded him as soon as they were 
informed of it.  This is why, in part, the guarantee scheme is in place  so errors like this can 
be put right. 
I am satisfied Mr E hasnt been financially disadvantaged as a result. 
As far as the inconvenience caused to Mr E in having to visit the branch to arrange the 
refund is concerned, I cant see that Mr E has provided any evidence to support he made 
numerous failed telephone calls.  HSBC have confirmed that there were no telephony issues 
at this time. 
While Mr E visited the branch to arrange for the direct debits to be refunded, I cant see that 
HSBC can be held responsible for this as it was his decision to do so. We all can, from time 
to time, face inconvenience when making telephone calls in our daily lives - but that doesnt 
mean compensation is due as a result  and I dont feel that it is here. 
I know Mr E will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking anymore of HSBC 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman