DRN-3580687
The complaint
Mrs J complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined her property insurance claim for 
storm damage. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs J made a claim against her Ageas property owners insurance policy. 
She said a storm had damaged a purlin in her property. Ageas declined the claim. It said the 
damage hadnt been caused by an insured peril but was due to age related decay.
Ageas responded to a complaint from Mrs J. She had said pressure from a storm caused 
damage to the purlin. Ageas didnt accept there had been storm conditions at the time of 
loss. It said the cause of damage was gradual breakdown and deterioration. Mrs J wasnt 
satisfied so came to this service. She wants Ageas to pay for the repairs to the purlin. 
In June 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. He found there had been storm 
conditions around the time of loss. But he wasnt persuaded storm was the main cause of 
damage. So he didnt recommend Ageas pay the claim or do anything differently. Mrs J 
didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Ageas to settle Mrs Js claim or to do anything 
differently.  
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of 
evidence Mrs J or Ageas provided. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be key or 
central to the complaint. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything 
provided.  
When considering this complaint about Mrs Js declined storm claim the key question for me 
to ask is  was a storm the main or dominant cause of the damage? Unfortunately for Mrs J 
Im not persuaded it most likely was.
Ageas surveyor found the purlin to be suffering from age related decay and deterioration. 
He felt that was the direct cause, the weight of the roof resulting in it splitting. 
Mrs Js provided a report from her surveyor. He had inspected the property two years before 
the damage to the purlin was discovered. The report says at the time of inspection there 
were no visual signs of deterioration of the roof structure. It says all timbers appeared intact 
with no defects found. 
I accept it is possible the storm was the main cause of damage. However, I must decide on 
what I think is most likely. Ageas makes a reasonable point when it says if storm was the 
cause it would expect to see some external damage as well  for example tiles being lifted. I 
think its possible the storm did play a part, for example highlighting an existing problem (the 
decaying of the purlin). But in that case storm wouldnt be the main or dominant cause of 
damage  the deteriorated condition of the purlin would. 
 
Overall Im more persuaded by Ageas position that storm wasnt the main or dominant cause 
of the damage  but instead the age-related condition of the purlin was. So I cant say its 
decision to refuse the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Ageas Insurance Limited to settle Mrs Js claim 
or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman