DRN-3276669
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down a claim on 
their business interruption insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held a business protection insurance policy with Allianz that included cover for 
business interruption. They claimed on their policy after their business was impacted by 
Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Mr and Mrs As claim. It said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to 
property and while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the 
diseases covered. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to our service. They 
felt the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case meant 
their claim should be paid. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
he didnt think the policy provided cover for their claim. 
Mr and Mrs A asked for an Ombudsmans decision as they said they were aware of other 
businesses having their claims paid.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr and Mrs A s business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr and Mrs As claim.
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by the policy covers business interruption as a 
result of damage. The policy defines damage as:
Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1 and 7 of this Policy
The Policy Schedule shows that Mr and Mrs A have cover for section 1 which is Trade 
Contents. They dont have cover for section 7, Buildings.
For this to provide cover the interruption to Mr and Mrs As business would need to be 
as a result of destruction, damage or loss to their trade contents. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to their contents, so this doesnt 
provide cover.
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended by various extensions. This extension covers 
loss:
resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence 
of Damage caused by any Event covered under Section 1 Trade Contents to 
property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises which shall prevent or hinder 
the use of or access to the Premises, whether the Insureds property or the 
Buildings at the Premises be Damaged or not
For this to provide cover, the interruption to Mr and Mrs As business would need to be due 
to damage to property in the immediate vicinity of Mr and Mrs As premises, caused by an 
insured event, which prevented or hindered access to Mr and Mrs As property. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 damaged property in the immediate vicinity which 
prevented or hindered access to Mr and Mrs As premises. Therefore, this doesnt provide 
cover. 
Specified illnesses
The extension for specified illnesses covers loss as a result of a specified illness occurring at 
Mr and Mrs As premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. The policy specifies a list of the 
illness which are covered but the list doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of illness. But there are similar policies on the market that provide 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr and Mrs As policy is not like this  
it sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might 
emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new illnesses 
and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mr and Mrs As claim.
Mr and Mrs A have also referred to the Supreme Court judgement. However, whether a 
claim should be paid still depends on the terms and conditions of the individual policy. In this 
case, the judgment doesnt impact Mr and Mrs As claim. 
I recognise this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs A were hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay their claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman