DRN-4519492
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc havent pursued costs from a third party 
for their flood damage, and they are unhappy with the service they received.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr J and Mrs Js property was flooded, which caused damage to their 
property and possessions.
The flood followed heavy rainfall and the flood water coming down from the nearby 
mountains. 
The local authority commissioned a flood investigation report to establish the cause of the 
flood, and it concluded that a third party (Mr E) had built an unauthorised structure on his 
property, which had caused an obstruction to a culvert, diverting the flow of water onto 
neighbouring properties, one of which was Mr J and Mrs Js. 
They said that the structure had since been removed, and tests have shown that flood 
defences that were in place were adequate had the structure not been there. 
Following the claim, AXA instructed their solicitors to consider whether a claim should be 
made against the third party to recover their losses. Following responses from the third party 
to the solicitors, and further enquiries with another third party who was indicated may be 
liable, the solicitors advised they would have to obtain further reports to see whether liability 
could be established. At that point AXA decided not to pursue the matter any further. 
Mr J and Mrs J have complained that their house insurance premiums are now high as a 
result of the claim, and AXAs failure to recover their costs. They also complain that AXA 
provided poor service and they had to continually chase for updates about the recovery.  
AXA have agreed that they failed to keep Mr J and Mrs J updated and they have offered 
£225 compensation for this, but they didnt agree that they had acted unfairly in not pursuing 
a claim against any third parties. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr J and Mrs Js complaint. He thought that AXA 
should record the claim as non fault and recalculate Mr J and Mrs Js premiums  since the 
claim was made, reimbursing any overpayments and the claim excess, adding 8% interest 
per annum from whether costs were incurred until settlement. He also asked AXA to pay a 
further £500 compensation. 
AXA disagreed with our investigators view and so the case came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
I am minded to uphold this complaint but on different terms to the investigator, and I will 
explain why. 
 What I have to decide is whether AXA have acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with the 
claim.  
  
Following the flood, the local authority reared a report on the incident. It noted that there 
were three culverts close to the property, but it attributed the flood to a structure built on Mr 
Es land which partially blocked the culvert.  
On the basis of this report, AXA instructed their solicitors who wrote to Mr E alleging that his 
unauthorised structure was responsible for the failure of the culvert to carry the flood waters 
away from the properties and asking for his admission of liability.  
In July 2021 Mr Es insurers responded denying liability and advising that they had a report 
which demonstrated that the fault lay with a broken grille further up the hill in a separate 
culvert which had allowed debris to come down and block the culvert at the back of Mr Es 
house.  They provided a witness statement from a  neighbour at the time of the flood, and 
also photographs from the day of the incident showing debris blocking the culvert and the 
broken grille, and detailed the steps taken by the witness to alleviate the situation.  
The owner of the land where the grille was situated was a housing association. 
 
The solicitors therefore raised the issue of liability with the housing association. They 
responded and were able to demonstrate that they had adequately maintained the culvert on 
their land, having undertaken monthly inspections. The August inspection had picked up a 
maintenance issue regarding a build up of silt and sludge which was cleared, and further 
records showed that the culvert was inspected monthly, and that a ground maintenance 
contractor attended weekly to check for debris and carry out a litter pick. They didnt 
consider there was anything else they could have done.    
As a result of these denials of liability, in July 2022 AXAs solicitors advised that a further 
experts report would be needed to consider whether there was any way they could rebut the 
denials of liability. 
In the light of that advice AXA decided to abandon any recovery. Their notes record that as 
the third parties have denied liability and provided strong evidence in support of these 
denials, they dont have enough evidence to pursue it. They did discuss this further with the 
solicitors before making the decision. 
I appreciate that Mr J and Mrs J feel strongly that AXA should have pursued liability, and I 
can understand the impact the flood and the subsequent damage has had on them. 
However, I cant tell an insurer to do this, I can only look to see whether the decision that 
they made was reasonably taken. Having seen all the notes and the reports obtained by 
AXA and their solicitors, I am satisfied that AXA did give proper consideration to the matter 
and they didnt take the decision to abandon proceedings lightly. Im also mindful of the fact 
that its their right to decide whether to take action or not. 
So I cant say that AXA have acted unfairly here. I appreciate that the claim remaining on Mr 
J and Mrs Js claims record impacts their premium prices and availability of insurers, but the 
record accurately reflects what has happened here. If Mr J and Mrs J are unhappy with their 
premium pricing, that would be a separate complaint. 
Its also important to note that when buildings claims are recorded on CUE  which insurers 
use to look at claims history, they arent recorded as fault or non-fault, it would only record 
the claim and the value  which would be the same whether AXA pursuing a third party or 
not. And so I cant say that AXA pursuing liability would have made any difference to 
whether Mr J and Mrs J were able to secure insurance from another lender, or for a better 
price. And so I dont agree with the investigator that there needs to be any change to the way this 
is recorded on CUE, or any recalculating or reimbursement of premiums. 
Distress and inconvenience
In terms of the updates provided, I do think that AXA could have managed Mr J and Mrs Js 
expectations about the recovery better and updated them as it became apparent that 
recovery was becoming more unlikely. I appreciate that AXA have the right of subrogation, 
but I cant see that the process of litigation, the prospects of success, and the impact this 
would have on their future insurance was ever properly explained to Mr J and Mrs J. They 
were left with the impression that if a third party could be held responsible, there would be no 
impact on them, and that was never the case.  
And so I think an award for distress and inconvenience is warranted here. I see that the 
investigator has recommended a figure of £500. I agree that the offer should be increased 
from that offered by AXA, but I think a figure of £350 is more appropriate to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the length of time over which the matter was ongoing, 
and the opportunities missed to manage Mr J and Mrs Js expectations.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr J and Mrs J and AXA have responded. AXA have accepted my decision, but Mr J 
and Mrs J are unhappy that my provisional decision differs from the investigators view. 
When a case is referred to an ombudsman by an investigator, we look at the whole case 
afresh, and sometimes additional information is provided by the parties which changes 
matters, which is why I have explained above the reason why my view differs from that of the  
investigator. I appreciate that this has been a really difficult time for Mr J and Mrs J, and that 
it has been drawn out over a long period. While I think AXA were entitled to come to the 
decision not to pursue the case any further, I do think that AXA could have been clearer 
earlier on about what was happening, and that is why I have made an award for distress and 
inconvenience.  
However, nothing that Mr J and Mrs J have said in their representations has changed my 
view, and so Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings. 
 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think AXA should:
Pay Mr J and Mrs J £350 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is I am upholding Mr J and Mrs Js complaint against AXA Insurance UK 
Plc and directing them to put things right as above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Joanne WardOmbudsman