DRN-2069177
The complaint
Miss T complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with an insurance claim that was 
made against her on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 January 2019, Miss T was involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle. Miss T says 
that she stopped to allow an oncoming car to pass. She says that while she was stationary, 
she heard a horn and then a car hit her passenger side rear wheel. Miss T contacted AXA to 
notify it of the incident the following day  this was for notification purposes as she says she 
only had a scratch on her car.
In February 2020, AXA sent Miss T a letter to let her know it had reviewed information 
relating to her claim and that it had settled the claim as a fault against her. This was because 
the third party had an independent witness statement that supported the third partys version 
of events. 
Miss T was unhappy with this. She says that she wasnt responsible for the collision. And 
that AXA hadnt informed her a claim had been made against her at all  and it hadnt asked 
her for additional information which might have supported her version of events. 
AXA responded to Miss Ts complaint to say that it thought its decision to hold Miss T at fault 
for the claim was a fair one. But it agreed that it hadnt told Miss T about the claim  nor did it 
keep her updated about the ongoing claim or request an accident report from her to allow 
her to provide her side of the story. It upheld this part of Miss Ts complaint and offered her 
£250 compensation. 
Miss T remained unhappy with this. She says she has lost out due to the increase in her 
premiums and future premiums. She says the situation has caused her a lot of stress. And 
she feels she should get a refund of the premiums she has already paid to AXA as she didnt 
get the service she expected. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss T. But he didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. And thought the £250 AXA had offered Miss T for the things it had done wrong was 
a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Miss T didnt agree. She says that AXA admitted that they should have asked her for more 
information and that this could have changed the final outcome. And she says the witness 
said that they drove off at the scene, so the third party wouldnt have been able to obtain 
their details unless the two drivers knew each other and were working together. She says 
that AXA ought to have gone over the witness statement to check for discrepancies between 
the difference in version of events.
Because Miss T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a 
court of law. What Im deciding is whether AXA has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that AXA can take over the settlement of the claim. 
So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That might mean AXA makes a 
decision Miss T disagrees with, as has happened here.
Its clear from looking at the information on file, that AXA didnt ask Miss T for much 
information about what happened. She initially reported the collision on 2 January 2019 and 
told AXA that she wasnt at fault for the incident. And that a vehicle had driven into her while 
she had been stationary. Miss T sent AXA photos of both vehicles after this.
The third-party subsequently made a claim against Miss T and said that she was at fault for 
the collision. The third-party also had a witness to the incident who said that Miss T was at 
fault  and that she had reversed into the car, which caused the damage.
I agree with what Miss T says here, AXA ought to have asked her more questions about 
what happened. But ultimately, the third-party had a witness to the incident, who thought 
Miss T was at fault. Its up to AXA to decide, based on the information it has whether to 
settle a claim as fault or not. And given the statement from the witness, I dont think there 
would be much more evidence that Miss T could provide that would support her version of 
events. I appreciate what Miss T says, in that she could have gone back to the scene to see 
if there was anyone else who had witnessed the incident, but as far as Im aware, she still 
hasnt done this. And given the length of time that has now passed since the collision, I think 
it would be very difficult for her to be able to provide anything like this. 
Miss T has questioned the legitimacy of the independent witness, because they have 
confirmed they didnt stop at the scene  so it would have been near impossible to track that 
person down. It isnt clear how the third-party got the witnesses details, however I dont think 
its unreasonable that they could have tracked them down. The witness statement confirms 
they dont know the third-party  and I dont have any reason to doubt this.
Miss T says that AXA ought to have spent more time looking at the information provided by 
the witness and investigating any discrepancies. Where Miss T has mentioned 
discrepancies, I assume shes referring to the discrepancy between what she has told AXA 
and what the witness statement showed. Even if AXA had gone back to discuss this with 
Miss T, I dont think it would have changed its decision on how to settle the claim. I say this 
because the witness statement is an independent persons account of what happened. 
There isnt any other evidence, other than Miss Ts statement, that contradicts this. So, I 
dont think AXA investigating this point further would have changed the decision it made to 
settle the claim as fault. 
Miss T is also unhappy AXA didnt communicate with her during the claims process. AXA 
has also acknowledged that it could have done better here and offered Miss T £250 to 
compensate her for this. Because both parties agree on this point, I now need to decide if 
AXA has done enough to compensate Miss T. And I think it has. I say this because, while 
AXA certainly could have kept Miss T updated much better than it did, I dont think its lack of 
communication has impacted on the outcome of the claim. The impact here is that Miss T 
was told about the claim, and AXAs decision to settle it as fault out of the blue  which I can imagine must have been quite distressing for Miss T. But I think that £250 is a fair way to 
compensate Miss T for this.
Based on what Ive said above, while I agree that AXA could have done more to get a better 
account of what happened from Miss T, ultimately, I dont think this would have changed its 
decision on how it settled the claim. And I think it has fairly compensated Miss T for the lack 
of communication throughout the process. So Im not going to ask AXA to do anything more 
for Miss T.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman