DRN-2957351
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to close his account in a timely 
manner, and gave him poor customer service while it investigated his complaint. He also 
complains about the difficulty he experienced in amending a standing order.
What happened
Mr H had a savings account and a current account with Nationwide. In April 2020 he phoned 
Nationwide and asked for the savings account to be closed, because the interest rate was 
about to be reduced and he wanted to transfer his savings to a more lucrative account 
elsewhere. He was told that this could not be done over the phone, and he would have to 
either visit a branch, use internet banking, or use telephone banking (an automated service 
different from making a phone call to a member of staff). But visiting a branch was not 
convenient for him, he didnt have access to internet banking, and the advice to use 
telephone banking was actually mistaken. In a later call he was told that it was not possible 
to close an account via telephone banking, and he should not have been told otherwise in 
the earlier call. He was told to request the account closure by writing a letter.
Instead of writing, Mr H made further calls, and after about five weeks, in early June, a call 
handler closed his account during a phone call. Mr H observes that if it was possible to do 
this on the phone all along, then it should have been done in the first call instead of wasting 
his time. He says that as a result, he had missed out on the opportunity to earn more interest 
on his savings elsewhere. Meanwhile, he had had to use his overdraft to make purchases 
because he had not had access to his savings, and he was concerned about the impact of 
this on his credit rating.
Mr H complained about this to Nationwide. He also complained about how long he had been 
kept on hold while he was trying to amend a standing order to his daughter, and also about 
discourtesy in one of the phone calls, in which he had been told to be patient, and later hung 
up on. Later on, he complained again about how long it was taking to resolve his complaint.
Nationwide apologised for these matters. It could find no record of the phone call, but it 
accepted Mr Hs word that it had happened. It accepted that Mr H had been misinformed 
about telephone banking (Mr H complains about Nationwide mentioning this, as he says he 
had not complained about it). Nationwide also accepted that Mr H had been kept on hold for 
a while during his call about the standing order, and that there had been some delay in 
dealing with Mr Hs complaint, but it said this was due to the covid-19 pandemic. Nationwide 
paid Mr H £125 for these issues. It also offered to pay him the interest he would have 
received if his savings had been transferred to another account on 1 May instead of in June 
(this has since been calculated to be £50). But Nationwide said that closing an account over 
the phone was not part of its process, and that this had only been done in June as an 
exceptional departure from its usual way of doing things in an effort to resolve Mr Hs long-
running issue. It maintained that Mr H should have written a letter.
Mr H was not satisfied with Nationwides offer. He said he would not accept less than £500. 
He brought this complaint to our service, and he also complained that Nationwide had 
treated his complaint about the standing order as part of his original complaint, instead of 
dealing with it separately as he had wished. Our investigator did not uphold that last point. 
She also did not think that Nationwide had really told Mr H that he could use telephone 
banking to close his account; rather, the call handler had said he could use telephone 
banking to move money from his savings account to his current account and then write a 
cheque on the current account to move his savings elsewhere. His savings account, with a 
balance of just £1, could then be closed later.
The investigator did agree that Nationwide had failed to understand what Mr H was really 
complaining about. She acknowledged that Mr H had not always been clear about what 
issues he was raising, since his phone calls were numerous, usually over an hour long, and 
often not to the point. But she still felt that neither of Nationwides two final response letters 
had properly addressed what his complaint was really about  the problems he had 
encountered with closing the account  and the compensation which had already been paid 
had been for other issues. She recommended that Nationwide pay another £150 (as well as 
its offer of £50 for missed interest), and Nationwide agreed to this.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not think the issues raised in this complaint are worth £500. I think that the total 
compensation which Nationwide has already paid or agreed to pay is fair, and I will not 
require it to do more. I will explain why.
I think Nationwide was entitled to deal with the complaint about the standing order as part of 
this complaint, instead of separately. Even if I took a different view about that, I cannot see 
that Mr H has been prejudiced by Nationwides approach to that complaint, since it upheld 
his complaint about the standing order. That was one of the issues for which it paid him 
£125.
I agree that the crux of this complaint, however, is Mr Hs experience in trying to close the 
account. But I think he could have mitigated that problem by following the advice he was 
given to transfer his savings to his current account and then move them from there, instead 
of waiting for his account to close. It was his choice to wait for that to happen, when he could 
have accessed his savings at any time, leaving his savings account with a nominal balance 
until it was closed later on. That would have removed the urgency from the situation, and he 
would not have been delayed in receiving the benefit of the better interest rate on his new 
account. Even if he missed or misunderstood that advice on the call, he could have thought 
of it himself.
It doesnt really matter though, because Nationwide has offered to pay Mr H the interest 
which he missed out on between 1 May and 24 June, and so he is not out of pocket as a 
result of keeping his savings with Nationwide for as long as he did. I think that offer is fair, 
and is enough to resolve that issue.
I dont need to consider the other issues in any more detail, because between the £125 
already paid and the further £200 Nationwide has agreed to pay, I think Mr H will have 
received more than fair compensation for everything that has happened. There is no need to 
increase it.
Putting things rightIn addition to the £125 Nationwide has already paid Mr H, and its offer to pay another £50 
which represents the interest he missed out on between 1 May and 24 June 2020, our 
investigator recommended that Nationwide also pay Mr H a further £150 for his trouble. 
I think that is a bit generous, but since Nationwide has already agreed to pay it, I think it 
would be fair of me to make an award of £200 (£150 plus £50), instead of reducing the 
compensation at this late stage.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr H £200 (in addition to the £125 it has already paid him).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021. But this decision is our final word on this case, 
and so I will not be able to engage in any further correspondence about this matter. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman