DRN-4287773
The complaint
Mr B complains that Evolution Insurance Company Limited (EIC) misdiagnosed the boiler 
repair he needed and failed to identify unsafe pipework. 
He had home emergency cover underwritten by EIC which included boiler repairs and an 
annual boiler service.
What happened
The circumstances of the claim and Mr Bs complaint about the way EIC handled the repairs 
are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the detail here. Instead, Ill focus on the key 
issues of Mr Bs complaint in my findings, below, referring to the relevant evidence where I 
think it helps me explain the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Its clear that the relationship between Mr B and EIC had broken down, evidenced by the 
lengthy correspondence and the inability to move the complaint forward. However, the 
following points are agreed:
EIC offered to refund one £45 excess fee, increasing the amount to £60 by way of 
apology for a delayed appointment.
EIC offered, but then withdrew its offer to refund £420 to Mr B which was the cost of 
his heating system power flush.
EIC rejected Mr Bs request for payment towards his re-piping.
EIC rejected Mr Bs request for compensation at a rate of £8 per day.
Our investigator didnt think EIC had handled the claim well and recommended that EIC:
Pay Mr B £420 to cover the cost of the power flush.
Pay 8% per annum simple interest on the £420 reimbursement.
Pay £150 compensation for the overall shortfalls.
Mr B accepted the resolution to bring matters to a close, but EIC didnt agree. It said the 
expert report prepared by its field engineer concluded that it had correctly recommended a 
power flush and the pipework wasn't unsafe.
Power flush
Mr B said EIC incorrectly diagnosed that his boiler needed a power flush. EIC said its 
diagnosis was correct, but Mr Bs engineer didnt do the power flush correctly.
Looking at the engineer reports provided by both parties, and the email correspondence 
between Mr B and EIC, Ive noted the following evidence:
EIC advised Mr B to have a power flush on more than one occasion, each time 
stating the system was struggling to circulate. 
Mr B paid a private engineer to complete a power flush. But his boiler still didnt work 
properly, and he needed to call out EICs engineer again.
EIC replaced the pump, but the boiler remained faulty.
EIC sent a different engineer who reported that the power flush wasnt needed but 
the pipework was dangerous and needed re-piping. 
Mr B had the system re-piped, after which the boiler worked.
EIC sent another engineer to follow up on Mr Bs complaint about the power flush 
misdiagnosis. The engineer reported that the pipe work was incorrect but not unsafe, 
and that the power flush had been needed.
Having considered this carefully, Im persuaded by Mr Bs claim. Thats because when the 
power flush was completed, the boiler still didnt function properly. So, its unlikely it was the 
correct solution to the problem. When Mr B acted on EICs diagnosis that the system needed 
re-piping, his boiler worked again, suggesting that was the correct diagnosis. These two 
pieces of evidence support the findings of EICs engineer who concluded that the power 
flush hadnt been necessary. 
The engineer who said, later, that the power flush was needed, didnt see the boiler until 
after all the work was done and relied on photos.  
So, on balance, I find that the evidence lends greater weight to Mr Bs argument that the 
power flush was unnecessary. 
Ive noted EICs comments about the power flush being done incorrectly. This seems to be, 
at least in part, because Mr B said the engineer removed the radiators and flushed them with 
a hose. However, both parties have acknowledged that he wasnt there at the time the work 
was done, so its unreasonable to rely on his comments as an accurate account of the work 
done.
EIC said if the power flush had been done correctly, the re-piping wouldnt have been 
necessary. As the boiler worked properly after the pipe work was done, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that the power flush was either done correctly or was irrelevant to 
the problem. 
In the absence of any persuasive evidence that the power flush was done incorrectly, I cant 
reasonably conclude that EICs comment is fair. 
Therefore, I consider it fair and reasonable for EIC to pay Mr B £420 to cover the cost of the 
power flush which the evidence indicates was unnecessary. As he paid for the work some 
time ago, its reasonable to require EIC to pay interest on the payment.Unsafe pipe work
Mr B complains that his pipe work was unsafe and EICs engineer said previous engineers 
shouldve noted that. EIC said it wasnt to the correct standard, but it wasnt unsafe.
While I accept that EICs engineer reported that the pipe work was dangerous, Im not 
persuaded that theres anything EIC needs to put right. EIC didnt install the pipes, so any 
problems wouldve been there for some years. If they were dangerous, its likely the matter 
wouldve been picked up sooner. While one engineer who visited Mr Bs home considered 
the pipes dangerous, the others either didnt comment or said they were wrong but not 
unsafe. Regardless of whether they were unsafe or not, Mr Bs policy didnt provide cover for 
re-piping his system, so EIC would never have been required to do anything with them.
Mr B had the system re-piped which fixed his boiler fault. Although he said his family were in 
danger, I cant reasonably ask EIC to do anything because, thankfully, theres no evidence of 
any harm. Therefore, theres nothing for EIC to put right in respect of this issue.
Compensation
In light of the shortfalls identified, including repeated visits, incorrect diagnosis of faults, and 
avoidable delays, I can understand why Mr B felt let down and dissatisfied with the overall 
claim handling under his home emergency policy. He could reasonably expect to have his 
heating and hot water restored, or to receive accurate advice about what he needed to do if 
any part of that wasn't covered under the policy. I dont think that happened here, so Im 
satisfied that £150 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary, I find that the evidence supports Mr Bs complaint that EIC failed to correctly 
diagnose his boiler fault, causing him to arrange and pay for a power flush unnecessarily. 
Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable for EIC to cover the cost, along with interest, and 
compensate Mr B for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
Evolution Insurance Company Limited must:
Reimburse £420 which is the cost of the power flush.
Pay 8% per annum simple interest* on the reimbursement from the date Mr B paid 
for the power flush until the date EIC Limited makes payment.
Pay £150 compensation for the mistakes made and inconvenience caused.
*If EIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman