DRN-3781516
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold an upgrade of holiday club product and the 
credit facility used to pay for it. The facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and 
Mrs B are represented by a claims management business, which Ill refer to as M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a timeshare with Diamond Resorts. In June 2010 they were staying at a 
Diamond Resorts location and were asked about their timeshare experience. They said that 
they had found it difficult to book accommodation at convenient times and locations  their 
choices had become quite limited.
Mr and Mrs B were invited to a presentation, at which they say they were encouraged to buy 
additional holiday points, on the basis that it would give them more options than their existing 
arrangements. They bought 4,000 points at a cost of £4,905. The purchase was funded with 
a credit facility from BPF, arranged by Diamond Resorts.
In October 2018 M contacted BPF on behalf of Mr and Mrs B. M said that Mr and Mrs B had 
claims against BPF for the following reasons:
BPF had not properly assessed whether the credit facility would be affordable for Mr 
and Mrs B.
BPF had not declared any commission it would receive from Diamond Resorts. 
The holiday product and the loan had been agreed because undue pressure had been 
applied on Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B had a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 because 
Diamond Resorts was in breach of contract and/or had been negligent.
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consider Credit Act.
M expanded on those points to say that Mr and Mrs B had been led to believe that buying 
more points would make it easier to book accommodation, but that had not been the case. 
The club membership had been marketed as exclusive, but it was not. And it was in many 
cases cheaper to book the same accommodation online than through Diamond Resorts as 
members.
M also said that Diamond Resorts was in breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations). And it 
identified provisions of the contract that it considered were unfair within the meaning of the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
When BPF responded to M, it said that it would not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, 
because it concerned events that happened more than six years before the complaint was 
made.
M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. They concluded, in summary, that any claim for misrepresentation was likely to 
be time-barred and that there was insufficient evidence to support a claim under section 
140A.
Mr and Mrs B did not accept the investigators initial assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint. I did that and issued a provisional decision. I noted that I 
did not have a full set of documents. Specifically, I did not have the credit agreement; it had been closed in 2013, but it appeared the credit had been repaid in December 2010. I 
continued:
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
The information I have about the credit facility indicates that BPF provided a running account 
facility to Mr B with a £20,000 credit limit, of which he used £4,905. That was repaid on 21 
December 2010. The credit limit would have been set at around the same time as the 
contract with Diamond Resorts was signed  in June 2010. Its unlikely this was an existing 
facility.
Our rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within 
six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in June 2010. Mr B would have known fairly soon after that date if he was 
having difficulty making repayments  although it appears that he only made one payment, 
for the same amount he borrowed. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been 
referred to this service by no later than June 2016  six years from the date Mr B was given 
the facility. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Further, because the credit facility was made available to Mr B alone, only he can bring a 
complaint against BPF.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.
In addition, the effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has 
a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
 that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; and
 that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of future 
arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
The supplier in this case was Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited, and I have assumed that 
it, or a company closely linked to it, arranged the credit facility and took payment from BPF  
although, in the absence of a copy of the facility itself, that is only an assumption.
I have therefore approached this case on the basis that payment was taken by the supplier 
and have considered Mr Bs claims about Diamond Resorts.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr B into the contract for the June 2010 change to the timeshare or holiday club membership were made on or before 
8 June 2010; since Mr and Mrs B were already members, its possible that Mr B relied on 
what he had been told or his own experiences even before that. He did not however raise 
any complaint with BPF until October 2018, more than eight years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim which Mr B might bring 
against Diamond Resorts is now out of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide 
whether the response of BPF to the claim under section 75 was reasonable. Given the real 
possibility that a court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering unfairness, a court can take into account any 
linked agreement  which in this case might include the agreement with Diamond Resorts.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the allegedly unfair relationship between the parties ended. As I have indicated, it 
appears that the part of the credit facility that Mr B used was repaid in December 2010. After 
that, Mr B was no longer a borrower, even if the facility might have remained open. I think 
therefore that a court is likely to have concluded when the complaint was raised in October 
2018 that such a claim would be time-barred.
Even if I were to take a different view on that point, I have not seen anything to persuade me 
that the relationship was unfair. There was no breach of the Timeshare Regulations, since 
they did not  as M acknowledges  come into force until February 2011. M has suggested 
too parts of the contract might be unfair within the meaning of UTCCR. The usual effect of 
that however is that the relevant term cannot be enforced against the consumer; it is not that 
the contract as a whole is unfair.
I note as well that the sum repaid in December was £4,905, the price of the holiday club 
points bought in June 2010. It seems therefore that there may have been an interest-free 
period attached to the credit facility.
Conclusions
It is not for me to say whether Mr B has a claim against Diamond Resorts or whether the 
credit agreement created an unfair relationship. They are however matters which I must take 
into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable. I have done that and believe that BPFs 
response here was a reasonable one.
BPF said that it had nothing to add. Mr B has not responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Since neither party has provided any further evidence or made any further arguments in 
response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach any different conclusions. I 
would comment only that, if I were to take a different view on the complaint about suitability 
and the credit assessment (perhaps because Mr B was not aware of the checks that should 
have been carried out), I would not uphold it. There is no evidence that Mr B had difficulty 
making payments, and it appears in any event that it may have been an interest-free facility, 
at least for the short period he had it.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman