DRN-4090362
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd  trading as Fluid Credit Card wont refund money he says 
he didnt receive from a cash machine.
What happened
Mr A says he tried to use a cash machine to take out money on 27 June 2022. But that no 
money was dispensed, and his card was retained. He is unhappy his account was debited 
with withdrawals of £250 and £50 plus a fee and that he has since had to pay interest on 
these amounts.
NewDay said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It set out that his card and PIN were used 
to make a balance enquiry at 11:18:30 that day. And at 11:18:37 £250 in cash was 
dispensed. An attempted withdrawal for a further £250 was declined at 11:19:11 due to it 
exceeding the withdrawal limit. And a withdrawal of £50 was made at 11:27 and that amount 
of cash was also dispensed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She had reviewed the 
evidence again and considered that Mr A had received the money. The information from 
NewDay confirmed the transactions it set out above. The cash machine owner had shown 
this and said that when the machine was next balanced there was a £20 surplus. This 
couldnt have accounted for any problem with Mr As withdrawals. And also, NewDay 
showed that there had been an attempted use of the card on 28 June 2022 which was 
inconsistent with it being retained by the machine on 27 June 2022 as Mr A says. There was 
no point of compromise identified for his card or PIN. She sent Mr A a copy of the record 
showing the attempted use of the card on 28 June 2022.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He was upset to be accused of 
making a false claim and of contradicting himself. He insisted that he didnt receive any 
money and his card was captured by the cash machine. The staff at the retailer where the 
machine was located couldnt help. He called NewDay and it issued him with a new card and 
there is proof of this. Mr A wanted to know how a cancelled card could be used and there 
was nothing shown on his statement. Hed asked for CCTV footage to be obtained by 
NewDay several times. He had now had a copy of his account statements and there was 
nothing shown on 28 July 2022. Mr A said he was unhappy at the information wed relied on 
which he believed to be fake especially as this wasnt shown on headed paper and hadnt 
been verified. He said that he couldnt fathom this and given the injustice here he would be 
involving his solicitor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.   
Im satisfied that these withdrawals were made when the chip on the genuine card was read, 
and the correct PIN entered. The information from the cash machine owner, which I believe 
was shared with Mr A, shows that the money was dispensed. There is no record on that 
report of any incorrect PIN attempts relating to Mr As card or that it was retained. The 
machine is shown to have been working both before and after the disputed transactions. And 
the machine owner has reported that there were no discrepancies that could account for the 
payments in dispute here. That is the information Id expect NewDay to have obtained in 
response to the dispute. It wouldnt be in a position to request third party CCTV  that would 
be a matter for the relevant authorities when Mr A had reported this. 
I want to set out some more background information here based on the case notes from 
NewDay. These state that the PIN for the card was viewed online on 25 and 26 June 2022. 
And that at 10:58 on 27 June 2022 Mr A called to unblock the PIN. This was done when a 
one-time passcode was sent to him, and it was noted hed also need to go to a cash 
machine. As he says I can also see a record that he called at 11:28 to say his card had been 
taken and he then was noted to say this was when he was trying to unblock his account.
In an email to this service, he refers to having used two cash machines at the location. Hed 
also been asked by our investigator if hed been distracted at all but said he hadnt been. I 
think that may have been relevant if for example hed thought his card had been retained but 
someone else say had been able to take and use it. Thats not his explanation and it would 
be unusual for that to happen, and the card to be used at the same location by a fraudster 
risking detection. And given the difficulty he says hed been having unblocking his account 
theres no likely explanation of how an unknown third party would have seen the correct PIN. 
Mr A also seemed to have accepted trying to take out the amounts of money referred to 
above although I appreciate some time has passed since then. There is no record of any 
other attempted withdrawals or card use that day based on the audit information.
I note though the attempted use of the card on 28 June 2022. I say attempted because the 
card was retained as it isnt in dispute that Mr A had cancelled it by then. But Im satisfied 
that the card hadnt been captured by a machine before then even if thats what Mr A 
thought. I appreciate Mr A is unhappy with the format of the information about this. That is 
the way it is produced from the system. I find it internally consistent with other information 
from NewDay and have no basis to find that this isnt genuine. It is also as Ive set out not 
the only evidence I am relying on.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. Im 
satisfied from the information provided that its most likely the cash was correctly dispensed 
for the withdrawals in dispute. And that Mr As card wasnt retained at that time in a machine. 
Ive thought about whether its possible he was distracted and someone else was able to use 
his card and PIN. But as Ive set out above thats not consistent with the evidence and his 
testimony. Having balanced all the factors here I find it is reasonable for NewDay to hold him 
responsible for these withdrawals. I can appreciate how disappointed hell be with my 
assessment.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman