DRN-3206418
The complaint
Mrs S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) blocked her 
account, causing her a great deal of inconvenience.
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs S opened a credit card account with AESEL. She used the card 
successfully several times. But, in early June 2021, she tried to use the card in a 
supermarket and it was declined. She contacted AESEL using its online chat facility on 4 
June 2021.
The AESEL agent told Mrs S that her account was under review by its specialist team. They 
said her account had been blocked for security reasons and asked Mrs S to call the 
specialist team so that it could be authorised. She called the same day. The block wasnt 
removed then. But AESEL spoke to Mrs S again the following morning and the block was 
lifted then.
Mrs S made a complaint. She said that AESEL hadnt told her it was reviewing her account. 
And that, because she didnt know this, she had spent time, energy and petrol money going 
to the shop and having the embarrassment of the card being declined at the till. AESEL 
didnt uphold the complaint, saying it had acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mrs S brought the complaint to this service. She was unhappy that her account had been 
blocked without notice. She said she didnt know why fraud checks were being carried out 
and that AESEL should have carried out all necessary checks before issuing the card to her. 
She said the situation had been very inconvenient because she didnt have any other means 
of paying in the shop, so couldnt complete her purchase. She said it was a wasted trip and 
caused her embarrassment. 
Mrs S said she didnt understand why AESEL hadnt contacted her about the issue and she 
had to chase it up. She said she was told on the online chat that the block would be removed 
when she called the specialist team, but it took more than one phone call and she said she 
had to do all the running. She also said she was spoken to rudely on the phone.
Our Investigator didnt think AESEL needed to do anything. But Mrs S didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ss account say that AESEL can refuse to authorise a 
transaction if, amongst other things, it has reasonable grounds to suspect unauthorised or 
improper use or fraud. The terms also allow AESEL to suspend Mrs Ss account if, amongst 
other things, it considers it necessary for the security of her account or suspects 
unauthorised, improper and/or fraudulent use. Mrs S agreed to be bound by these terms 
when she opened her account.
Its right that AESEL should have security measures and procedures in place to safeguard 
customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. As to exactly what those 
procedures are and how they are carried out, thats a matter for AESEL to decide. What Im 
looking at here is whether it followed its procedures correctly and fairly. I think it did.
Im satisfied that a transaction on Mrs Ss account was identified by AESEL as potentially 
suspicious. The transaction was declined and Mrs Ss account was blocked until it could be 
verified. This meant that all other attempted transactions were declined while the block was 
in place. I find that, in taking these steps, AESEL was acting reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Ss account.
Mrs S is unhappy that she wasnt given notice of the block and says that AESEL should 
have done all necessary checks before giving her the card. But the issue here was caused 
by a transaction on the card, so AESEL couldnt have known about it or made the relevant 
checks until the transaction was attempted. It wasnt related to Mrs Ss application for the 
account and there werent any checks which could have been done at the account opening 
stage which could have prevented this. Its also the case that, where theres suspicion about 
a transaction, action needs to be taken quickly to prevent the transaction going through. So 
its in the nature of security reviews that the customer isnt given prior notice. 
But Mrs S says that AESEL didnt contact her after the block had been put in place either. 
She says she had to contact AESEL to find out what was happening. AESEL says it didnt 
call Mrs S on the day her account was blocked because the transaction was declined in the 
evening and it was too late to call her by then. I think thats reasonable.
AESEL says it reviewed the situation the next day but didnt call Mrs S because it couldnt be 
sure that the phone number it held was valid. It says there hadnt been sufficient contact 
from her on that number and its policy is not to use unproven phone numbers to contact 
customers in this situation, as it would risk alerting a fraudster. I think thats reasonable.
AESEL says it tried cross-referencing the phone number with one held on Mrs Ss old 
account, but the number was different. It says it tried to contact Mrs S on the number held on 
the old account but got no answer and couldnt leave a message. I think that was a 
reasonable approach and Im satisfied that AESEL took these steps. Im also satisfied that 
the number it called was the same number which Mrs S called in from on 4 June 2021. 
Mrs S is unhappy that the issue wasnt resolved during the call on 4 June 2021. I think the 
comments from AESELs agent on the online chat indicated that Mrs S would only need to 
call the specialist team once, and that shed be able to use her account after that. That 
wasnt the case and I can appreciate this was frustrating for Mrs S. The agent explained 
early on in the call that this wouldnt be possible. But I dont think it caused Mrs S any 
significant detriment here. The information Ive seen shows that AESEL tried calling Mrs S 
back later that evening on the number shed called in on. Unfortunately, the call went to 
voicemail. If it hadnt done, I think its likely the issue would have been resolved that day.
Mrs S called back the following morning. AESEL then called her back and released the 
block, having completed the review and received confirmation from Mrs S that the 
transaction was genuine. I think that was a reasonable timeframe from when Mrs S first 
contacted AESEL on the afternoon of 4 June 2021.Mrs S is very unhappy with the way her call was dealt with by AESELs call handler. Ive 
listened to the call and I think it could have gone better in some respects. But Im looking at 
the situation impartially and, on balance, I dont think Mrs S was treated unfairly on the call.
She says that AESEL should compensate her for her inconvenience and petrol costs. I 
understand she feels strongly about this, but I dont think AESEL did anything here which 
warrants a compensation payment. Mrs S says she travelled five miles by car to a shop only 
for her card to be rejected at the till. I appreciate that was inconvenient. But Mrs Ss card had 
been blocked for two days and I note that shed had several transactions declined by that 
point. So I think its fair to say that particular trip could have been avoided if shed contacted 
AESEL when she first had problems using the card.
Its in the nature of checks like this that they do sometimes cause customers inconvenience. 
But the checks are in place to protect customers. In the circumstances here, I dont think 
AESELs approach was unreasonable or caused undue inconvenience to Mrs S.
But she says it was suggested in the online chat that she would be compensated and shes 
upset that nothing came of this promise. Ive read the transcript of the chat. Mrs S asked if 
the agent had the ability to apply some goodwill. The agent said they couldnt take any 
action while the account was under review and asked Mrs S to speak to the specialist team 
so that they could authorise her account.  The agent then said: Once your account will be 
released by then, please chat back with us and we will see what best can be done.
I dont think this amounted to any guarantee that AESEL would compensate Mrs S in the 
way shed asked, or at all. The agent effectively said that they would look into it if Mrs S got 
back in touch. So I dont think anything was said in the chat which bound AESEL to make a 
compensation payment to Mrs S. And, as Ive explained above, I dont find that it acted 
unfairly here. So I dont think it needs to pay compensation to Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman