DRN-1972976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were sold a MPPI policy in 1999 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Cs names, the MPPI policy covered Mr C 
alone. It would potentially provide a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C 
was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Santander didnt agree 
with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I will now explain why.
Santander accept they advised Mr and Mrs C to take MPPI. This means they had to check it 
was suitable for them. I dont know what steps Santander took to check if the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C but I dont think it was suitable for them in their particular 
circumstances. This is because I think Mr and Mrs C had sufficient existing repayment 
provisions in place such that they didnt have a need for this policy.
Mr and Mrs C have told us that Mr C had an income protection policy in place at the time of 
the sale. Santander say that there is insufficient evidence as to when the policy 
commenced/that it was in existence at the time of the MPPI sale. In any event they think the 
MPPI policy would have been suitable for Mr C despite income protection cover as the 
income protection policy wouldnt have paid out until Mr C had been off work sick for six 
months. Given the limited employee sick pay Mr C would have been entitled to, they think 
the MPPI policy would have been of use to Mr and Mrs C, particularly in the intervening 
period. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr C did have an income 
protection policy in place at the time of the sale. Mr and Mrs C have provided us with a copy 
of the application form they completed in respect of this income protection policy. It shows 
the commencement date as 1 June 1989.They have also provided us with a statement in 
relation to this policy dated October 2018 which shows an income protection policy was still 
in existence. The policy number on the application form completed in 1989 matches the 
policy number in the October 2018 statement. In these circumstances Im satisfied that the 
policy commenced in 1989 and that it was still running at the time of the sale.
It is right that the policy had a six-month deferral period and that Mr C has told us that he 
would only have been entitled to one months full pay followed up one months half pay and 
then statutory sick pay. However, Mr and Mrs C have also provided us with evidence of their 
savings from the time of the sale. Although it appears Mr Cs savings were held in an 
account which would have resulted in a penalty if they wanted to access them earlier than 
the maturity date, Mrs Cs has told us her savings were readily accessible. Although she 
wasnt a policyholder, the mortgage was in joint names so I consider her savings to be just 
as relevant for the purposes of my decision as those held my Mr C. Mrs C has provided 
evidence which shows she had savings of almost £90000 at the time of the sale.
Given the amount of savings, I think Mr and Mrs C could have easily managed to cover any 
shortfall in the few months between Mr Cs entitlement to sick pay ending and the benefit of 
the income protection policy beginning. The income protection cover would have provided a 
larger benefit and potentially for a much longer period of time than the MPPI  it would have 
replaced up to 75% of Mr Cs income per month until he was well enough to return to work. 
Further, in calculating the benefit entitlement under the income protection policy, the insurers 
would deduct any benefits from another policy - such as MPPI - and so this further 
undermined the need for a MPPI policy.
So having taken everything into consideration, I think Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs C this 
MPPI policy.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman