DRN-2305161
The complaint
Miss M says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender  irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Miss M between
September 2015 and May 2019. A summary of Miss Ms borrowing history is below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 03/09/2015 02/12/2015 5 £500.00 £212.00
2 08/12/2015 01/03/2016 6 £500.00 £190.00
3 01/03/2016 24/03/2016 6 £650.00 £265.50
4 24/03/2016 10/05/2016 4 £500.00 £249.00
Gap in lending
5 02/07/2018 24/05/2019 6 £350.00 £139.53
6 24/05/2019 Outstanding 6 £350.00 £164.73
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought that loan 6 shouldnt have
been given to Miss M as it looked like Miss M was struggling to manage her money  
especially given that she had struggled to repay her previous loan. 
Mr Lender disagreed and said loan 6 looked affordable based on the monthly income and 
outgoing information that had been gathered about Miss M. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
There was a significant break in Miss Ms borrowing from Mr Lender. There was a gap of 
nearly four years between loans 4 and 5. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to view 
this gap as an indication that Miss Ms finances had stabilised. So, I will look at Miss Ms 
borrowing in two separate chains.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint about loans 1 to 5. Miss M didnt respond 
to the adjudicators explanation. As there appears to no longer be a dispute with these loans, 
I wont be making any further findings on them.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Having done this, Im upholding the 
complaint about loan 6. Ill explain why.
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Miss M when she applied for this loan. 
This included verifying her employment and income. It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal anything of concern. 
I can see that the checks detailed above were carried out. However, I think when Miss M 
applied for loan 6 there was a sufficient enough suggestion from her borrowing behaviour 
that she was having problems managing her money. 
I say this because Miss M was returning to borrow again on the same day she had repaid 
her previous loan. And she had struggled to repay loan 5 on time and had incurred extra 
interest. Miss M was borrowing the same amount for loan 6 as she did for loan 5, so I think it 
would have been reasonable to assume that she would also struggle to repay the same amount for loan 6. Especially as she was repaying it again over a six month period so 
indebting herself to Mr Lender for a not insignificant period of time. Given the fact that this 
loan remains outstanding, I think this shows it wasnt suitable. 
Putting things right
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt Mr Lender should buy it back if Mr Lender is able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender cant buy the debt back, then Mr 
Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 6 and 
treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of the principal 
on loan 6. If this results in Miss M having made overpayments then Mr Lender should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss M. Mr Lender shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Mr Lender has already written-off.
C) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in 
relation to loan 6. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman